ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! We're starting our work. Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that yesterday we had a pretty good day with you, where we were able to make a number of important decisions, including economic development. I think that the economic issue today is question number one for our country, more specifically, the growth of the economy is a priority in the work, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in order to create the right conditions for business development. Today, I would like to stress that we are going to have such a technical meeting with the government, the committees, the faction leaders for the preparation of the Budget Code and the budget, which is extremely important. I look at the Budget Code as an opportunity to create decent, quality rights and rules that are necessary for economic development and entrepreneurship. I would also like to point out that tomorrow will be a very important day, dear colleagues. We have a deregulation, decentralization plan tomorrow, to support the territorial communities that have just joined together, new territorial communities that need to make appropriate technical decisions to maximize the effectiveness of their rights. An important Law on State Service. Finally, we have to put a dot on this issue, and I would very much like this dot to be the adoption of the new Civil Service Act. Many other tasks. Therefore, it is vital that we be mobilized. This is an important priority, because no matter how much we plan our work with you, it has to end with a clear positive vote for some laws or other. Dear colleagues, in addition, today the world celebrates the International Day of the Fight for the Elimination of Violence against Women, various manifestations of it. And in view of this legislative reform plan, there is a provision, in view of what we are speaking out, and I think that Parliament cannot stand outside, we speak for this movement to be effective enough, we need to implement the so-called Istanbul Convention, to ratify in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And we expect the government to make appropriate proposals in the near future for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, finally, I'd like to point out that there's going to be some kind of action today in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I'll tell you about a little bit later. It'll be before the break, between 12 and 12.30. But I think it's every parliamentarian's job to fight effectively, to create mechanisms to eliminate any form of violence against Ukrainian women. This is one of the most important tasks in our lives. I think that respect for a woman, respect for her mother, makes a person self-sufficient and full. So I urge everyone to be active in this fight. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please be prepared, dear fellows. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Please. [[10:05:27]] 296 deputies are registered for the moment. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before that, according to our tradition, I would like to welcome our colleagues on their birthday. Oleg Ivanovich Kulinić, who celebrates today’s birthday, the Ukrainian national deputy, would like to welcome us. [[Applause]] And our colleague, Igor Stepanovich Nasalik, is a Ukrainian national deputy. Welcome to our colleagues, with the best of wishes! [[Applause]] Dear fellow national MPs! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by national deputies from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum. Therefore, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to prepare for the recording. Ready? Please log in. Writing done. Please, Opposition Block, Vadim Zinovich Rabinovich. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u2	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! On 10 November, the Supreme Council adopted a decision by voting in favour of a bill setting a date for voting in the local elections in Mariupola and Kramatorsk. In this room, we have indeed made an important decision with you to correct the flagrant lawlessness and injustice of three hundred thousand of our fellow Ukrainians who have been deprived of their constitutional right to elect local power. 29 November is the date on which the vote was scheduled. And the less time to the electoral day, the more obvious attempts to destabilize the preparation and organization of the electoral process are being made. It is sufficient to recall the scandalous decision of the Centre for Pre-election Agitation. Today it has been annulled by a court of law. But in the past few days of the so-called silence, some candidates and parties have been law-abiding and under ban, while others have not even considered reducing traffic and campaigning. It is clear that such a situation has placed the race in unequal conditions and may theoretically have an impact on the results of the vote. Today, there are cases of illegal conduct involving local elections in Mariupola. There is illegal interference with the work of the electoral commission, pressure, intimidation and threats, all of which are unacceptable. With regard to such facts, there must be an immediate and strong response by law enforcement agencies. Otherwise, impunity produces permissiveness. The collapse of the vote on 25 October was a major blow to democracy in Ukraine and had the most negative effects on our State. That was almost unanimously stated by representatives of several leading foreign countries and international organizations. And our common goal is to make every effort not to allow the October scenario to happen again, as if someone didn't want it to happen. And I appeal from this rostrum to the President as a guarantor of the Ukrainian Constitution, to the Attorney-General, the Minister of the Interior, the Head of the BSS service, to take all necessary measures to ensure that the local elections in Mariupola and Kramatarska take place. To comply with all the requirements of national legislation and international democratic norms. We have prepared an appropriate appeal from the members of our faction and call upon all members of the remaining factions to sign it and to do their utmost to prove that we are a truly democratic State and live in a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u3	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, September 15th, it was the time when Parliament would start discussing the country's budget, at least in the first approximation. I want to remind you that July 1st would be the beginning of a discussion of the new tax system. Because I want to remind you, in accordance with the Budget Code, that any tax changes for the following year are made not earlier than six months before the beginning of the budget year. Thus, no July 1st or September 15th became the dates when Parliament would have to consider the most crucial documents of the country's life for the following year 2016. What did we get instead? In fact, if it wasn't for the work of a committee that conducted parliamentary hearings, committee hearings, that passed its bill on the budget system, we're actually in a state of affairs today, we have only statements and only statements of how much of an approximate format there will be a country budget and a tax system. As part of this, our faction insists that, at least this week, the government should bring Parliament before it, only without recall, as has already become the tradition of several governments, starting with the government of Yanuković, Azarov, but still make a budget, the draft budget of Ukraine and the draft changes to tax legislation. Why is this so important? In fact, our tax legislation will contain standards that will further or depress the existence of small and medium-sized businesses, and allow further tax schemes to fail to pay taxes through offshore large businesses or our parliament will start to consider a really tax system that will allow for the closure of loopholes for those to whom today 100 percent of VAT returns. But you realize that this is not a small and medium-sized business, and these are the same oligartic groups that have ruled the country all these years. In addition, this is very important for us because Parliament should ultimately consider how will the country live on key parameters of its development, namely the key parameters of tariff policy? And we continue to insist that the draft law, which was prepared on behalf of virtually all MP factions, on the reduction of the rent for the public company "Smalling" and for private companies, if they worked under the same conditions instead of making preferences exclusively for private companies, was directly linked to the reduction of tariffs for the population on gas and heat. These are the questions that are urgent, and I think we should at least do it this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u5	Ten seconds. Thank you. Please, Anatoly Borisovich. Igor Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u6	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends, I would like to address the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, from this rostrum. Mr. Peter! I'm asking and asking you to release the head of Mr. Gunczyk's Volin district administration. Why? First. During more than a year of this man’s leadership in Volina, we had a terrible problem with amber. We're going to have the amber republics created today in the Volin region. This man has released this situation from control, and during the reign of this man, this problem has arisen in Volina. Hence, the question must be asked, Is this person not in the field of amber or fate? The other one. No stagnation, no development, no progress. Third. Regrettably, the people on the Wall who were making the front row course today cannot enter the premises of the district administration, they are not in the business. No person from the field today is in the leadership of any organ in the Volin district administration. The fight against media and freedom of speech. A few weeks ago, a newspaper came out of our Volinska newspaper, where the governor shuts her mouth. This is not the first time that the head of the district administration, Mr. Gunczyk, is struggling with an independent press on the Wall. Cooperation with the deputies. We were elected six deputies from Volin County: three from the "Will of the People" Group (unfortunately, the late Igor Jeremeyev), and three from the "People's Front". Within a year, the governor couldn't gather six deputies at one table and just say, "Boys, how are we going to work? How are we going to raise Volin?" Kuluar games, underground games, grounds, and so forth. And one more thing. I understand that this person has worked in your business for 20 years in the car business. But look at the election results. A year ago, your political power got the third result from below after Lugansk and Kharkiv. It's the same now in the local elections. Mr. President, pay attention to this. I'm personally a proponent not to rock a boat, against any terrain. But if you don't take radical, radical changes in personnel in a week, believe me, it's gonna be hot on Volina. And it's not just my position, it's the position of the tens and hundreds of people who were on Maidan who believe in the ideals of Maidan. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u7	Please, Borislava Berez, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u8	Good afternoon! I want to address all the people's deputies who are here independently -- standing, sitting, talking to each other or talking on the phone. I was addressed as the title of the Anti-Corruption Committee by students of the Meduniversity of the Name of the Mantis. For the third week, the students are taking action, starving, and ignoring their demands. What do students want? They asked for their attention. On 24 October, a commission was set up to review the activities of the University. An act was created on 88 pages. The Act reported that there were real problems with corruption. Following this act, the Ukrainian Security Service opened a criminal case of corruption against Jekaterina Amosova, rector of the Meduniversity. The act also stated that the main requirement was the termination of the contract with Amos and. But so far, there is neither the signing of the act nor the reaction of Kvitashvili. I would like to address the committee in question, and I would like to address all the members of the people who reflect the interests of the Ukrainian people. Students are also Ukrainian people, students are our future. And if we ignore their demands, no intra-fractional anti-corruption groups, even in the largest factions, will help solve the problem. Gentlemen, I would like everyone to be drawn to this problem -- to realize that in a while there will simply be no doctors in Ukraine, because our Meduniversities are issuing diplomas that will simply cure someone. I want Mr. Mustafa Najem, who is quite active in anti-corruption activities, Mr. Sobolev, who is also involved, and the other gentlemen involved in anti-corruption activities, to address the issue of the Rector of the Meduniversity of Amos. Mr. Quitashvili was absolutely ignoring the solution. Moreover, some time ago he had a culinary meeting with Mrs. Amos, where they agreed not to break the contract. I have a question: is the opinion of students and the public being ignored, so do the people's deputies ignore the will of the people, or will they take responsibility, and change the situation, and really fight corruption in the Meduniversity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u9	Please, Melnichenko. Tomenko, Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I'm concerned that we've moved the biggest national holidays to December 11th. The whole country is waiting for December 11th. Everyone says: "Jacinjak will come on December 11th and tell us what to do, the dark, the juridical." I have a question: and we don't know that 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens today, not December 11, say that the country is going the wrong way. And we don't know that 99 percent of us today don't accept government? Do we have to wait for December 11th? Here I'm told Putin wants to resign the government. Friends, the more proputinian government of Ukraine has never been. It's a proputinian government in shape, because it's free, corruption covers Putinim. And it's a proputinian government that makes sense, because that way to kill a socio-economic situation, it means to prepare for the country's external threats and to pass it on to the tray. So I don't think we should wait until December 11th. Today, we need to think about how things work out. Well, not ministers, friends, it's not the same place. The chairs don't change, or instead of three chairs, the table doesn't help. Well, you should have guessed, the Ministry of Ecology bill by the Ministry of the APC to unite, or all humanitarian ministries to one. The government doesn't just have to change, we have to change the strategy. The government can't kill the country anymore. We're an outside government today. Don't you understand? Today, ministers come and say that Pepsi Coke requires us to do this, and another American company requires us to do this. What about the national Ukrainian economy? Who will protect her? Who's going to protect the agrarian business? Who's going to be the woodworking? Well, it's a government against the Ukrainian economy, my friends. So that we don't wait until December 11 and wait for what's going to happen. And I'll tell you what happens. On Friday 11th, the next day of the December 22nd session. I just feel like while we wait, people will be standing here. They will either stand and demand us or get us out of here because we are unable to change the situation. And then, as the classic said, already the third Maidan, where we will not sing an anthem five times. By then, I'm sorry, the second Koljivščina will be. So I demand to get my head around, understand the situation. Come on. Let's raise the money and hire the Yatzenuk. Well, 100 bucks, all the deputies will. Well, if the whole country doesn't know what to do with Yatzenuk, let's find him some work. Let's change our strategy, figure out what to do in the country, pick a new government, and work. Not against Putin, but for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Today, November 25, the 59th anniversary of the death of a great Ukrainian artist, Alexander Petrovich Long. In your own words, the monumental figure of Longevity is futile. So I'm going to quote a few quotes. This is what Charlie Chaplin described as: "Slovakia has so far given the world a cinematographer and one great artist, thinker and poet Alexander Long." And here's how Longer said to Vladimir Malisko: "He remains like a tree that flourishes forever, forever bearing fruit as an eternal thinker who is to stand next to Socrates and Homer." Olesis Potter tried to convey the talent of Longevity with words. "The master of great insults, he wrote in a gogolic, bold and bountiful brush. His artistic images shine like selective fruits, like red-sided apples, glowing from the screen unusually and strikingly." Alexander Petrovich Duzhenko was born in the Sesnica of Chernigiv region, died in Moscow, buried in the Novo-Vivič cemetery. His covenant was to be buried in Ukraine. Unfortunately, it wasn't. Stalin took him out of Ukraine. In fact, they were imprisoned in such a voluntary prison. In the "gold cage" he was sitting in Moscow, but his soul was always streaming to Ukraine. I'm addressing the government, I'm addressing the President, I'm addressing the parliamentary majority. Let's do the will of Alexander Petrovich Long and do everything we can to bury him in Ukraine. During the days of the Asold tomb, we honored the memory of the heroes of the Celestial 100, the heroes who died on the eastern front. There's a proposition: let's create a pantheon of heroes on the Asold grave. Now in Rotterdam, Eugene Konovalec is buried as one of the leaders of the national liberation movement. The lease period for the land area has expired. And so Eugen Konovaltz must likewise be buried in Ukraine on the grave of Asold. Simon Petlur is buried in Munich. Oh, Simon Petlura was buried in Paris, Stephen Bandera was buried in Munich, that is, our heroes are scattered around the world. Our task with you is to bring them here to Ukraine, to bury their ashes, to create a pantheon of heroes so that Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian youth can come, worship, and honor the memory of the great Ukrainians. After all, many of our problems have been raised since childhood in a spirit of love for the country, in a spirit of patriotism, in a spirit of respect for the native language, and in a flag. And let us take the example of our Turkish brothers when their enemies invaded their land, who did: they did not warn a hundred times, but only ten times, and then they fucked up — and that stopped the aggression. So if we did that, if we didn't have aggression, there would be no war on Donbas, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u13	Ten. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u14	If we had acted as decisively as our neighbours in Turkey, we would have had no war on Donbas or the occupation of Crimea or the thousands of our fellow citizens killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u15	People's Deputy Korchik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u16	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, in the city of Chernigov, there was an untimely protest by Montenegrin entrepreneurs and public activists against the black-and-blannergo saviour. More than a thousand people have come out to protest the pressure of the energy monopolist "Chernihiwoblanergo" and to create impossible conditions for business in the area. The situation is the result of the monopolies of the skynergo and creates negative phenomena, such as artificial complexities when connected to electricity, electricity shortages, the problem of advance payments, and so on. Well, for example, the very high cost of connecting a private house even in a remote village today is up to 20,000 dollars. You know, we're talking a lot about monopolies, oligarchs, we know that all the power grids in the country belong to 5 oligarchs and also to one Russian company. In particular, our Montenegrin oblenergo is. Belongs to the nedooligarh of the Russian Gregorian. The action takes on a state-wide scale, as the requirements of the Montenegrin entrepreneurs apply to electricity supply and the activities of the armored sector at the national level. In particular, in the rally resolution, shareholders are demanding the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Forced Change of Owners of Monopolists Enterprises at the request of the territorial community. Take out the power supply of monopolies with regard to the execution of project documentation and the execution of the work of connecting to the power grids. Cancel pay for connecting to the power grid. Cancel advances. Sort the relationship between the energy supply and the consumer, make it even and transparent. At the local level, the protestors’ demands are such. This is the release of Mr. Tkach's "Blackwaterblanner" PAT leadership, the cancellation of the previous payment for electricity, the uninterrupted feeding of the respective societies before the land formation issue is resolved. Providing acceptable electricity conditions to create new jobs in Montenegro, because about 170 enterprises in the area today are unable to access electricity because of the activities of Chernihiwoblanergo. The difficult situation in the energy sector because of the monopolism of the skynergo, I'm sure it doesn't just exist in our area. This is a national problem that requires a systematic approach. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Demchikin's Energy Minister today to intervene immediately in this situation in order to avoid social tension in the area and to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Fedoruk Mikola. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u18	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, honourable deputies! Yesterday we had a statement from the People's Front faction regarding what is now under way as a massive attack on both the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the President and their teams. And it's a shame that the coalition has been involved in this attack. One of the presentations today proved to be the truth. It is very easy to criticize an active government that has been elected by factions of the coalition, being in the coalition itself, being in the faction that has delegated the most ministers to this government, it is very easy to do so. We understand that, but what's really interesting is that the thesis is that the government is pro-Russian. What cynicism do you have to go down to make these statements? This is when we first jumped out of Russia's gas needle, when 17 billion cubic metres of gas were attached, and we don't need to buy any more energy in Russia, in the aggressor country, when we refuse to buy electricity there. When our Western partners use a reverse to fill our gas repositories and now we don't buy gas in the aggressor countries. Is that such a pro-Russian position? We understand that the proputin regime sees that it loses Ukraine from its influence. The Euro-Integration Package was voted in the Chamber, regardless of the violent opposition of some deputies. And yet we're going to get visa-free next year. This is such a bad job for the government, isn't it? Once again, I urge all coalition members to unite over Ukraine’s reform and reform. According to international experts, the People's Front faction is one of the best in voting and supporting government reform. And once again, I'm going to the coalition deputies. You can do and tell everything about any reform. But when only 30 percent of the government bills are supported by the coalition, that is no longer the position of the coalition! Once again, I urge everyone to meet with the President and with the participation of the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, the leaders of the coalition factions, members of the coalition and to discuss the transformation of the government. Delegate your representatives there and share the responsibility for reforming the country and implementing such, perhaps unpopular, but extremely necessary, reforms that have not been implemented for 24 years! Only in union is our strength! Only in cooperation with our Western partners, with the International Monetary Fund will we be able to save the country! Only together will we conquer Russia's aggression too. And Ukraine will be a free European state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u19	Irina Stepanovna Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Today, Ukraine, like the whole world, celebrates November 25, the International Day of the Fight for the Elimination of Violence against Women. You don’t have to go far enough to understand and see that this problem is urgent in Ukraine as well. 2012, Oksana Makar Three rapists raped her, then decided to strangle her, and then burned her body. She died without surviving. In 2013, "wraudien rapists." Irina Krashkova, who was raped by two militiamen and one taxi driver, and five other women who were raped, and then men from that village were forced to take the blame. Three men from Voradiyushka committed suicide. But we face the most serious problem of violence in the family. This is a problem that is being silenced in Ukraine. Each year, the Ministry of Internal Affairs records more than 100,000 statements coming from women who suffer from domestic violence. And every year, this situation is getting worse, the dynamics are increasing. I'll just get some statistics. 35 percent of women in hospital are hospitalized for physical harm associated with domestic abuse. 40 percent were beaten during their pregnancy. Children of injured mothers are six times more likely to try to commit suicide. Fifty percent are prone to drug and alcohol abuse. Fifty percent of all homeless women and children went on the street to escape domestic violence. Nearly 40 percent of all reported murders occur among relatives. Every year in Ukraine, almost 15,000 women die, not by bullies, not by bullies, not by drunkards, but by the hands of their own men who swore to God in marriage to guard and respect their wife. This problem cannot be silenced; it must be raised to the surface. But there are few words to solve this problem. The public had little to do with the problem. We, the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional merger, set out a plan to ratify the Istanbul Convention in 2016. This convention prohibits violence against women, and this convention offers shelters and free legal aid to these women and children. This convention will punish criminals until they land between 5 and 10 years old those men who abuse, kill our women and our children. Once again, I call your attention to this problem. In addition, we have faced a very difficult phenomenon -- violence on the front. A lot of women.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u21	Please continue. One minute of extension.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u22	Many of our women, who are in captivity, are left in the occupation. I want to read you a little quote that might draw your attention to this problem. He writes a journalist who occasionally resides in an occupation zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u23	Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like to make a request. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to pay attention. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, our colleague Irina Lucenko is speaking on an extremely important subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u24	There are over 40 to 50 of our women in the separatist and terrorist captivity. These are girls from the age of 14, minors who are being raped every day by dozens of separatists and fighters, girls with broken fates. We can't record these crimes because these women are no longer alive. So in deciding on the question of voting for the Constitution, in order for the Minsk Accords to have a logical conclusion and a positive extension, think that war has a woman’s face. Remember those women and children who were placed in front of tanks. Remember, violence is the worst human rights violation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u25	Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. Please, everyone, come into the hall, we're starting a second reading of what's important. As long as everyone's coming in, I'd like to give Oleg a minute, the leader of the Self-Help faction. And let's move on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen! Distinguished fellow MPs! Today, there are three powerful developmental conflicts in Ukraine that show the power of people and people, and they are evidence of the weakness of the institutional state. The conflict in Bloody Rose, where people's strength and energy stood in defense of their will. We need to unite with you today, all democratic forces, to prove to people that power is on the side of people, not on the side of political competition and commercial management. The second conflict is a conflict on the border with Crimea, where people have stood up against the inaction of power to protect the people from occupation. And the third conflict is the government's failure to present the budget and tax reform. Yesterday our colleagues in the Faction Financial and Economics Unit were in the Treasury. That's what we came up with. That's what we went out with. There is no government cooperation with Parliament to present the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u27	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u28	To present a budget that would show the country, entrepreneurs, employees, employees, and the way to their success. Let him be slow, let him through thorns, but the way to success of the country. We all need to unite in order to bring these issues and these conflicts together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u29	Thank you. Today, in fact, the first such meeting will take place. I think we can find the right approach, too, and I think we need to step up the interaction and work on these two important documents as quickly as possible. Dear colleagues! I want to take your attention before we go into the agenda, there, you see, a huge pile of paper. Tomorrow we will have Law 3207, which will allow e - mails to be made to national MPs in the second reading, and those who want to do so in paper form. But look, these piles of paper, every day we just destroy millions of bracelets with you, because we have an outdated system. So what I'm saying is that in a few months we're going to have a technical modernization of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament and all of the processes, and that's going to go down in the history of dependence in the past, and it's going to be progressive and modern enough. So I would very much like to ask you to look at this law again today and to support it tomorrow. Colleagues, you have introduced Act 1599, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the creation and operation of family farms. An important law for the development of farms. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Taras Kutovov. 1599, second reading, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is on a bill that is considered by the committee on second reading. This is a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s laws to encourage the creation and operation of family farms (registration number 1599). What are the main novels and what they are talking about? So it's actually into the legal field of the concept of "family farming," which will actually allow them to get support from the Ministry in case such support is actually budgeted. 65 amendments were made to the bill. Of these, 34 were counted and 31 were rejected. As a whole, as the committee has proposed, we propose that you support this bill in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine. I want to draw attention to a key issue that was actually fundamental in discussing the bill. It actually applied to the possibility of family farms without the creation of a legal person. Such an amendment was not supported on the committee. There is a position of member of our committee, Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenka, who, along with the faction, stands up for this position. I think that during the discussion of the amendments he will be able to make a statement, and I, Mr. Head, ask him to give him the same word so that he can justify his position in the context of the confirmation of this amendment. So please consider my speech completed, and please support the bill in second reading and in general as a law such as that which is important and which creates the first steps in fact on the plane of the creation of family farming. We have a lot of questions that need to be settled, including in the Tax Code, to make this function effective. Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, if possible, give Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenk a word to confirm his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please follow through on the amendments. 2 repairs, Shapovalova. Shapovalov, national deputy. Don't insist. 3rd, Ponomarov. 7th, Linka. 10th, Levenchenko. 8th. The 8th is partially accounted for. Ichchenka. 8 Amendments, Yvchenka. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, 8 amendments are proposed (Yvchenko, Bakumenko, Kulinich) in the following edition. I read: "To complement article 5 of this content: "Fermer farms are granted the status of family farming under the condition that they use the work exclusively of members of such farms who are members of one family, in accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Family Code. In order to carry out seasonal and individual work that requires special knowledge and skills and that is directly related to basic activities, family farming has the right to include the necessary professionals and seasonal workers on contractual grounds according to the legislation. The specificities of holding members of a single family without legal status are regulated by the provisions of article 8-1 of this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u33	Okay. I think you are. Wait. Dear colleagues, the 8th Amendment, which has been partially taken into account by the Committee, suggests that the National MP Yvchenko take it fully into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we've worked with our direct partners, with the MPs who are drafting this bill today. It is in this order that we should vote on the amendment. After the committee, we also worked directly with the deputies who worked for the second reading. That's the way it is, it's important. We have four amendments, and I'm asking you to support these four, just as you've decided at the post-committee working group. Please vote in the paper I read. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u35	The procedure provides for the following. We've reached the 8th Amendment. You want to adopt it in general, your proposal is full, not partial, but full.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u36	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u37	The editor you read. And now I'm going to put this proposal, yours, on the vote. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? For them to pass this proposal, it takes 226 votes. Once again, the 8th amendment proposal. Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, once again, concentrate, please. Today we define three things in one-person agriculture. We have four and a half million. It affects, it's a law that affects between 9 and 18 million families. Today we leave, first of all, one-persons -- those who want to stay the way they are. Secondly, we leave the family farms, but those that will not be registered by a legal person on a contractual basis will work. But we give them the status of a family farm, we give them the status of a farmer, but they don't register. And third, those who register, those who will pay taxes directly, and who will receive social goods accordingly. These three things. All of this will take place on a voluntary basis. And we agreed with the Ministry, with the committee, that's the normal thing. It's all on a voluntary basis. So this is exactly what I just read, and I'm asking that this amendment be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u39	8 Amendments to the edition announced in the rostrum of the Supreme Council To support her. I understand that the entire environment supports it. Not all of them? All right. 8 Amendments, please, as Vadim Yvchenko from the rostrum read. Please determine by vote. 8th, to support her. To support it, we need 226 votes now. Please. [[10:49:30.]] For 203 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 9th Amendment, 9th Amendment. Dear colleagues, once again, please concentrate. I'm, uh... Calm down, concentrate. The 8 amendment announced by Vadim Yvchenko, in order for it to be approved, we need to get 226 votes. So once again, I'm going to put it to a vote in an editorial that was announced by Vadim Ivchenko. We need 226 votes. Please update number 8 for confirmation. Vote. Ready? Please. Please, 8 amendments, let's vote. [[10:50:39]] For 202 She got as much as she did the last time. 9th Amendment. Please. Is there no objection? Counted. 10th, Yuri Lewchenko. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u40	Lewchenko, Freedom VO, 223 District of Kiev. I have 10 amendments to the principle of similar things that Yvchenko has just talked about. The point is that family farming is based solely on relatives and/or family members, that this is specifically prescribed in the law, that individual farming is founded by one citizen rather than one natural person, because it is such a boisterous formulation. And that these rules are laid down directly in the law, the order of farming, not for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers. If we pass these standards on to the Cabinet of Ministers, a respected society, our not-honored Cabinet of Ministers confirms so much that these farms will be impossible to administer and establish at all. You obviously understand what this is about, the various regulatory barriers that will be placed on the road to the peasants. So I'm asking you to support my 10th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u41	Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Yuri! You know, we've done your job. That's what we're talking about. We have after the law comes into force, we have to define the criteria, the criteria so that the rich don't take advantage of them. So the amount of land in the family farming process, so it doesn't have to be 30,000 hectares, you know, the amount of trade that's going to take place in a year, the quantity of product sold and so on. These criteria will be defined, believe me, professionally with the committee, and they will continue to be approved by decree. And the decision can change every year depending on how family farming develops. So I'm asking you to really assign these criteria to the Ministry, it's going to be more, let's say, it's faster to change these criteria, directly than it's going to be in the law. So please support what the committee has taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u43	Amendment 10 was rejected by the committee. The National MP, author Lewchenko, insists on voting on this amendment. Please identify yourself, colleagues. [[10:53:33]] For 155 155 votes in favour. Dear colleagues, 11th Amendment, People's Deputy Linko. Don't insist. 12th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 13th, I was walking. Don't insist. Lensky, 14th Amendment. Don't insist. 15th, Lilka People's Deputy. Don't insist. 16th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 18th, he was walking around the people's deputies. Don't insist. 20th, Linka. Don't insist. 21st. Don't insist. 24th, Lenny. Don't insist. 27th. The 25th amendment, it's counted. Please take the 25th Amendment of Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Since we had recently redrafted the text after the committee, the previous amendment of Arcadia Kornatsky was adopted. But since we've rephrased a little bit, we're proposing that we reject this amendment today. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u45	The 25th Amendment, introduced by Vadim Ichchenk. It was taken into account by the committee, the initiative to put it on the stand now. But she was counted by the committee. Please identify yourself as respected colleagues. The 25th Amendment, the author is the Kornatsky National Deputy of Ukraine. [[10:55:32]] For-127 No correction supported. It is unaccounted for. 27th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 29th National Deputy Lensky. Don't insist. 31st, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 32nd, Yuri Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko, 32nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u46	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In its 32th amendment, I propose that some aspects of the formation of family farming, such as the treaty, be elaborated in detail in the law. More specifically, describe the specificity of the contract for the establishment of a family farm, the rights of participants, as they have the right to act on behalf of the family farm. And other technical-legal refinements that are just necessary for family farms to function properly. The point is that once again, if I delegate excessive authority to the establishment of a regulatory base of the Ministry’s exclusive office, it will create barriers to the functioning of the farm and not make it easier to do so. Society here when they talk about the Cabinet of Ministers speeding up work, well, wait, let's be objective. We still have enough work to do, and the Cabinet of Ministers is just making the process more complicated, and nothing is speeding up and making the situation worse for farmers. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u47	Vadim, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Jury, we supported Amendment 31 in the paper that was offered with Oksana Prodan, we just passed it. So I would suggest that we are still in the line proposed today by Oksana Prodan to support this amendment. That's why we're rejecting yours, and the committee has offered to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u49	The 32th Amendment, please, was rejected by the Committee. Please determine by vote. [[10:58:05]] For 116 I didn't get the required number of votes. 30 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, 30 corrections, that's mine. We suggest that it be rejected and that we vote in favour of the rejection, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u51	Please, 30 amendments were considered by the committee. Vadim Yvchenko proposes to confirm this amendment. Please, colleagues, 30 amendments are counted by the committee. Vadim Yvchenko proposes to put her on the stand. [[10:59:40]] For 133 I didn't get the required number of votes. This means that this amendment has been cancelled. Not counted. Let's move on. 31st. Don't insist. Thirty-two. 31st rejected amendment. Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, Amendment 31 is proposed to be included in the next edition. The chapter of the law is to be supplemented by article 8/1 of this content.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u53	One minute, please. The head of the Taras Kutov committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u54	Volodymyr Borisovich and honourable colleagues, the procedure does not provide for the voting of amendments to texts that have not been considered on the committees. This is the second time we've done it, the second time we haven't confirmed it. Considering how the logic of the law is now, given the non-support of these amendments, I propose that we look at the issue of retransmission for the second reading of this bill and return to its consideration later. I don't see the point of further looking at the amendments, because the structure of the law is now broken. I ask you to put to the vote the question of re-reading the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u55	Colleagues, I think that's a perfectly reasonable offer, an extremely important question. Now that we're starting to make proposals that might not respond, it's already a violation of the procedure, but we're going to lose the bar of the law. So, colleagues, I think that a reasonable proposition is the head of the committee, send this law now for re-reading, on the committee to rework and make an agreed proposal, just to go through and vote. Colleagues, do you accept that logic? So I'm going to ask you very, very carefully to support this procedure right now, but to send it to the committee for second reading, I see, and Vadim Yvchenko supports it, and colleagues from factions. Because there will be an imperfect law, it is better not to do it now. Colleagues, the proposal has been put forward, and I ask her to support it, to send this law for a second reading to the committee in preparation for a second reading at the suggestion of the committee head and co-rapporteur Ivchenk. Does that make sense? Please concentrate, everyone, let's support: 1599 to the committee for a second reading. That's what I'm putting to the vote. Please support her. 1599, second reading again, to the committee, preparation, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:02:53]] For 239. Decision taken. We did the right thing. Dear colleagues, draft law (registration number 1674), draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on the cancellation of import duties on electric vehicles. That's what we stopped at yesterday. Please read second, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin, please head of the committee. There are literally a few amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u57	Please, Your Honor, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u58	We propose to consider draft 1674 amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on the cancellation of import duties on electric vehicles. In preparing the draft for the second reading, 14 proposals were submitted, 12 of which were taken into account, and two were rejected. Let me remind you that the bill envisaged a reduction in import duty rates for vehicles of different destinations. For our second reading, we made adjustments by leaving only transport facilities equipped with purely electric motors, or electric motors. To this end, a special code has been added in the codes of the UKTZED to rule out abuse of other means of transport. They also removed the rules on the release of vehicles used for transport services, i.e. taxis. So the two bills of 1674 and 1912 centered around what were exempt from taxes on imported cars, namely electric cars, and they were exempt from VAT on the same cars. The rest of the two bills were cleared. We also removed the exemption from excise duty because this code is not a excise product. We can go to the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, according to regulations. 11th Amendment, Victor Halasyuk. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 14th, Mikhailo Kobtsev. He doesn't insist either. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. I'm going to give one minute to the drafter of the bill and we're going to go to the second reading of the draft law and in general, according to the committee's conclusion. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. Attention! Colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u60	Thank you. Lewchenko Yuri, 223 Svoboda District, Kiev. Society! I am so glad that we have finally come to the second reading of this very important bill. It's important just for one reason. Ukraine has very little of its own oil, yes, Ukraine has very much of its own electricity. That's right. And now it doesn't have the power to produce its own electric cars. We should do everything we can to make sure that we can drive electric cars so that we can use our power electrically and not over-import petroleum products, especially from the aggressor country. So I'm asking everyone to vote friendlyly now and not to walk around the clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u61	Colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. Ready to vote? The development of environmental transport. So 1674, esteemed colleagues, second reading: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Cancellation of Import Customs on Electric Vehicles. It is cheaper to buy electric cars that are not yet produced in Ukraine but are produced abroad. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. In the second reading, and in general in the Committee's version. 1674, please vote. [[11:08:40]] For 233 The law's been passed. 1912, Honorary Colleagues: Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I have just reported to you that this bill, 1912, relates to the exemption from payment of added-value taxes on imports of vehicles equipped with purely electric motors. The duration of this benefit is until 1 January 2020. So again we're talking about purely electric motors. And in import duties, we're canceling the standard from the draft law because the product is not under excise duty, the product is not under excise duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u63	Thank you. Colleagues, by the way. Victor Halasyuk, 4th. Don't insist. Four. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 5th. 5th, Kobtsev, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u64	Dear fellow MPs! By this and the previous law, we release electric cars from excise duties and bribes. And we want to get rid of VAT. I want to remind you that VAT is a tax on consumption. Let me give you a little example. If we get rid of VAT the way we want to do it, Tesla, which is $100,000 worth, we're going to release $20,000, Nissan Leaf, which is $20,000, we're going to release only $4. Targeted State grants are used for such things. So I'm asking you to put my amendment to confirm, because, once again, VAT is a tax on consumption, and it's just wrong to exempt VAT. I told you about the wash and the excise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u65	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u66	Well in principle, the bill cancels the whole point of the bill. We're just talking about the tax exemption for the added value, so then the regulation doesn't make sense at all to adopt the previous law if you go essentially to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u67	I think it's even different. If we now find that electric cars are going to be cheaper by 20 percent, we will. electricity, so they can and will also encourage automakers to slow down their ambitions a little bit and lower prices on other cars, which can be very good for consumers. Colleagues, let's go. Do you insist on putting the vote to the vote? You insist. 5 amendment, please confirm. Not for confirmation, for approval. Deputy Kobtsev is the author. Please identify yourself. 5 revisions. She was rejected, and I put her to the vote. [[11:12:00]] For-86 No, I didn't. 6th Amendment, Dennis Ludmila. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Next. 8th. Mikhailo Kobtsev. Don't insist. All of it. Colleagues, we've been through some repairs. We've been through the repairs. Please take your seats, invite MPs. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Let's go to the vote. Ready? Please, colleagues, draft Act amending Section XX "Transitional Regulations", "Transitional Positions", of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of import taxation and supply of vehicles equipped with electric motors, electric cars. Ready to vote? In the second reading and in general, according to the Committee’s conclusion, 1912. That's what I'm putting to the vote. In the second reading and in general. Vote. In the second reading and in general. [[11:13:37]] For 222 I didn't get the required number of votes. There is a proposal for the national deputy Yuri Lewchenk to return to the matter. Not all national MPs were able to vote. Steady, steady, fellows! Take it easy. We're taking our seats. Colleagues, please. 1912, back to the subject. Ready? Ready? Sergei Sobolev, one minute. Take your seats, colleagues. Sergey Sobolev, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u68	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Let's calm down our emotions and figure out what we're voting for right now. We want to take out VAT on imports by the 20th year of VAT for our production. I realize there's no electricity production now. But, I'm sorry, this is going to be a discriminatory norm for our manufacturers that are going to start this production right now. So either the norm works for everyone, including domestic production, if it's not started, or we don't have the right to discredit those who want to start this production in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u69	Thank you, fellows of honor! One minute, Oleg Lazko, please. And then Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear colleagues! There is no electricity production in Ukraine, and there will be no such unfavourable investment climate that we have in Ukraine today. So in order to create a favourable investment climate and actually introduce the production of electric cars in Ukraine, I'm not talking about reducing energy dependence on Russia as a result of less energy consumption, if we have at least a thousand or two electric cars in Ukraine, thank God, let them go. Less pollution, services, jobs, and most importantly, the investment climate. If we want to build a country with you, there must be an investor. Because if there is no investor, if there is no stable tax base, if there are no fair courts, every Ukrainian loses. Because there's no investor coming, there's no jobs, there's no wages, there's no taxes on the budget. That's why this law is favorable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u71	Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Then there's Nina Petrovna Yuzanin. I'll make an offer, I think it's all now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! I voted in favour of cancelling a car with electric motors, because there's nothing dangerous about it. But when we introduce VAT cancellation, we say that we don't have and will never have to produce our own cars with electric motors. Why? Because VAT is an indirect tax. The national product cannot be taxed on VAT, imports cannot. And here the release mode won't help, because in the release mode, the Ukrainian manufacturer is still going to have a problem with the incoming VAT. So if we want to have electric cars in Ukraine someday, do not vote in favour of this law. We've been relieved of our duty, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, I think we just need to balance both our manufacturers and those who import and everything will be fine. And we're going to stimulate both imports and production. Please, the head of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk. Please. And then Nina Yuzanin, and that's it. Let's go to the vote, colleagues. Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Tell Rosenblatt to sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u75	Ivanchuk offered to plant Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u76	I'd like to address all of you, honourable deputies. I didn't want to ask the question, but I don't know if I'm going to disappoint you or advise you, but there's electricity production in Ukraine. And I invite all the deputies who want to go to Dnipropetrovsk to the VESTA factory, where electric cars are produced for the second year. Yeah, it's not serial production. How much is being bought, how much is being produced, Oleg Valeriyovich. So I think we need to adopt this bill and stop speculating about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u77	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. All of it. All of it. All of it. Everyone wants to make a statement. Let's take a vote now. All right, calm down. Colleagues! Please. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Make sure that this applies to our manufacturers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! In view of the very large number of amendments that we have taken into account, I propose that this be done under the transcript of the decision: the prescribed bill to be adopted in the second reading and in general, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to carry out technical legal work. Because there's a date of entry into force, it's very important, from 1 in the next month to the month of adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u79	So we're distributing it to Ukrainian producers?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u80	I think, well, look, on the committee, we've been looking at this issue about Ukrainian producers. But we didn't even have any suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u81	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u82	I think if you need it, you can make it extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, look, I think you should stop raising your hands. I suggest you do it this way. We don't have any production today. I propose that we now adopt the decision as defined by the committee. The committee is tasked with making changes to this law in order to stimulate the production of electric cars in Ukraine. And settle this issue for a month. And it's gonna be okay. Who's going to be against that? Everyone supports this because it's stimulating, stimulating domestic production. And that's how we're going to now adopt this decision that the committee has passed. And let's settle the question. And we're going to discuss resolving the issue for manufacturers. We don't have any manufacturers today. Colleagues, well, I mean, let's do that, mass manufacturers. They're making electric cars? Something, okay, colleagues, but we'll look at it separately for Ukrainian production. And that's going to be important. Do you have a deal? I'll put Jujana's proposal to the vote now. Calm down. Law 1912, 1912, edited by the Committee on Technical Law. Next. So that we can settle with you for a month so that there are no discriminatory conditions in relation to the Ukrainian manufacturer. Because there's an incoming VAT, and then there's a composite, and so on. Let's do the signal now, 1912. 1912, please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Let's, signal, 1912 as a whole, a committee with a technical legal proposal. Everybody calm down! Vote? Please vote. Signal 1912 as a whole with technical legal remedies in the Committee's version. In the Committee's version. [[11:22:49]] For-195 Clearly, there are no votes. I have an offer to return to the committee for a second reading. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now I'm going to put a bill of lading, it's a signal, and I want to define the position of the hall, so that this rule is distributed to Ukrainian producers. It's an emergency. With a zero bet, just like the release and here's the release. Okay? Now I'm going to put this proposal to the vote as an emergency, I just want to understand the position of the room. Please, we're voting for an emergency. To distribute this premium to manufacturers of Ukrainian electric cars. Let's vote zero. It's an emergency, I want to make up my mind. I want to make up my mind. I want to do this again. Attention! Attention. I'm proposing that this law be applied not only to imported cars, but also to vehicles that will be produced in Ukraine with zero VAT. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote right now. Yeah, it's the exact same thing. And now I'm going to put it to a vote. If it finds support, we will vote on it and we will now formulate the law. Okay? Please vote and determine. Vote. [[11:24:46]] For 219 Well, actually, I think there might be voices. Colleagues, we have 219 votes now. My colleagues, I think that a particular topic of trams, trolleybuses and buses is a separate topic. Colleagues, let's re-vote so that this rule can be distributed to a domestic producer. Please let's determine that this is going to be distributed to the manufacturer of the Ukrainian. Vote. It's a signal, I want to do it again, it's just 219. Is this position, or is it just not enough to vote, to understand? [[11:25:44]] For 215 Yes, colleagues, this is the position of the hall. So I suggest we re-read the committee and prepare it already agreed. Okay? Can I put this proposal on second reading to the committee? Vote, colleagues, re-read to the committee. We're voting a second reading to the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:26:14]] For 229 A wise decision. I ask the committee to prepare him for consideration by next plenary week. Guys, let's move on. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Role, Meaning and Impact of Civil Society on Ethnonational Unity Policy in Ukraine. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this provision. In general, there is the offer of Gregory Mikhailovich to vote in general immediately. Is there no objection? Colleagues, let's support it. A minute, colleagues, a minute of voting. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary hearing recommendations on the role, meaning and impact of civil society on the formation of ethnic unity policies in Ukraine. Ready to vote? Vote. In general, 2869, please support everyone. This is a decision in general, please support all, we vote, colleagues! [[11:27:30.]] For 208 Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Grigory Mikhailovich, please report for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for attention because right now it's not a single thing that's unique, we have a structurally serious problem. And it's called that our tool is shared with you, Parliament, as a parliamentary hearing, it's stupid, ineffective and ineffective. Here's an example. These parliamentary hearings that we are now voting on have taken place, do you know when? Eight months ago. Eight months ago, these hearings took place! There are still 3-4 similar hearings that took place six months or more ago. And their recommendations are not voted on. So then this is a simulation, this is a structural problem. And I think it should be settled within the framework of the work of the Fifth Cox Group, together with the Chief of the Supreme Council and the entire Parliament. If we continue to pretend that parliamentary hearings are serious, and their recommendations matter, we will be deceiving ourselves. So now I'm proposing, my dear colleagues, I propose to support, at last, these recommendations of parliamentary hearings, just as there are recommendations for military medical doctrine today. But continue to prepare it in such a way that immediately after the parliamentary hearings, no less than a month later, we would vote on their recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u85	Colleagues, now we need 226 votes to vote for the recommendation. To that end, we need national deputies to return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. Question of return, 2869: Recommendation of Parliamentary hearings on the role, meaning and impact of civil society on the formation of an ethnic policy for Ukraine's unity. Please take your seats. Ready for your return. Please, before the decision is taken. We vote, colleagues, please vote everyone, we vote back. Please support everyone. [[11:30:39]] For 212 I'm asking the faction management to return my deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall, and a plenary session is now under way. Please, 2869 for the return vote. [[11:31:29]] For the 220. Please, you're welcome. Dear media, if possible, please go to the towers and visit every national MP you meet right now in the towers and tell them that you have to have a conscience, go into the hall and vote, do your job directly. No, why? All people are conscientiously sitting in the hall, voting important questions. Does anyone feel that it is their duty to walk in the pools? Or is it possible that there are several varieties of deputies — those who work and those who walk? Please, colleagues, 2869. I ask your attention, and I ask your support to return to the resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the role, meaning and impact of civil society on the formation of ethnic unity policies in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Ready? 2869. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:33:11]] For 230 Thank you, colleagues. And now I'm asking you to adopt this decision, 2869 as a whole. We're back, please approve the entire draft decree. Please vote. [[11:33:34]] For 231 Thank you. 231, decree approved. Next, dear colleagues. Project of a decree to rename the village of the Radjansk Kremenack district of Ternopil. This is Michaela Golovko reporting. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the decision. Please vote. Vote? Stop voting. 2733 as a whole. "Rename -- I'll read -- the village of the Soviet Kremenack district of Ternopil district to the village of Veliki Mlinivci. On the basis and in general. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Josephovich Golovko. Let's vote, as a whole. Ready? It's the right of the community to determine. Please support, this is the right decision. Please be supportive. [[11:34:49]] For the 250. Thank you. 250. Actor's been approved. The agreement will be discussed after 12: 30 p.m. 3260: Draft Decision on the 2015 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. Arthur the Palace. You asked that it be included. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Vote. Short-term procedure. Vote! [[11:35:30.]] For a hundred and The decision has been made. The committee's chairman, Arthur Leonidovich, is proposing that it be accepted primarily on the basis and, in general, this draft decision. Is there no objection? Vote. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general. 3260: Decision on the 2015 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. A total of 3,260 votes. [[11:36:08]] For the 220. Colleagues! This is the prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young active people. 3260. Arthur Palace, one minute. Listen to the author. Please take your seats. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! To the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports 20 proposals were received from district councils and all-U.S. youth social organisations for the 2015 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for contributing to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. The award was established in 2003 and is awarded annually in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. The prize is awarded to individuals who are citizens of Ukraine under 35 years of age, with a cash share of 500 untaxed minimums. Dear colleagues, these are very worthy applicants. Our committee has all the factions, all the factions voted, all the claimants from the factions. Please support as a whole. Let's support the young! Yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u87	Thank you. Ivan Krulko, a minute, from the young. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u88	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let us support this determination. Most of these people that we're going to award a prize, I personally know about many years of youth activity, working together in Maidan, all those things that relate to the construction of civil society. The amount that is condemned is not very small, but it encourages young people to come to youth organizations, to develop youth policies, and to build up the Ukrainian state. I ask all deputies to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u89	Ready, colleagues? 3260, on your return, please support. Take your seats. 3260, for the return, we vote. Vote. Let's go back, please. [[11:38:35]] For 224 All right, guys, let's do it again. Return 3260, support for the young. I can see that. Take your seats, national deputies. I'm.. you know, I'm gonna ask you to have an electric lock on this door. At 10 o'clock, we're not leaving till 12. From 12 to 12.30. At 12:30 p.m., we go in and out. Shall we vote on this proposal? Colleagues, I'm ready to compare myself to any working hours today, if anyone thinks there's an electrical lock in the lobby too. We're still here in electricity, electric chairs, electric. Thank you. Colleagues, 3260, on your way back. Please be supportive. [[11:39:51]] For 233 We're back. 3260 in total, please support. Vote. [[11:40:09]] For 231 The decision has been made. Dear colleagues, draft Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation on Military Medical Doctrine. There is also an offer to be accepted as a whole. Vote? Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine", 2513a. He's been in line a long time. On the basis and in general, please vote on the draft order. Vote. [[11:40:44]] For 235 Thank you, colleagues, for your approval. 235, the order was passed. Yes, the information about the hearing is still on. Next. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary hearings on "Stand and prospects for road safety in Ukraine", based on 3385. Is there no objection? Vote. Topic: "Stand and prospects for road safety in Ukraine." Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:41:40]] For 242 The decree has been passed. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Reforms of Information and Communication Technology and Development of Information Space in Ukraine. The head of the Committee of Danchenko. The Committee’s conclusion: on the basis and overall, 3488 Vote? Please, 3488. We vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:42:15]] For 231 231. Decision taken. Draft Decision on State support for the publication of scientific, educational and research programmes aimed at providing objective and dignified information on the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine (Sergey Visatsky). There is a proposal to adopt this decision on the basis and, in general, according to the committee's decision, it's 2333a. The author suggests that it be approved. Vote. 2333 a.m. Vote. Vote please, colleagues. Sergey Visocki, our colleague, has prepared a verdict, please support. [[11:42:58]] For 234 Actor's been approved. Yes, come on, colleagues. We still have a few questions about inclusion in the agenda. 3300: Draft Decision on the 125th anniversary of the birth of Eugene Alexiyovich Konovalz (16 June 2016), prepared by Igor Nasalik, our fellow national deputy. There is a proposal to accept its foundation now and in general. One minute. Put it in order of the day. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Let's put it in the agenda. The Jubilee. Please, 125 years from the birth of Eugene Konovaltz. Let's put it in the agenda for decision-making. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:57]] For 236 Decision adopted, 236. And the draft regulation that we voted on as a basis and in general. With the committee's proposals, please vote, 3,300. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Eugen Konovalec. I read as a decree. [[11:44:25]] For 235 The decree was passed, respected colleagues. We still have a few questions to ask about the second reading. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to the introduction of seed and planting legislation in accordance with European and international requirements). But it's big enough. There's an offer, I think we'll move on. And now we're going to start the action that was planned. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind. After 12: 30 a.m., you and I will deal with a criminal matter. I'm asking you not to leave, colleagues! This is going to be a very, very nice event in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, please stay. 30 minutes of your time and attention will testify that the Ukrainian Parliament condemns any violence against women. Today is an international day that marks the entire civilized world. And I think we don't have as the Supreme Council to be indifferent to this subject. And now, colleagues, there will be a move that we have supported with you in support of the Government of Sweden and the Council of Europe. 30 minutes of your time needs attention. This will be a symbol of our support for the fight against violence against women. All right, let's get started, colleagues. Dear colleagues, in our guest bed is the Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Sweden to Ukraine, please welcome Mr. Beckerat. And Mr. Ristowski, Head of the Office of the Council of Europe in Ukraine. Welcome. They'll be with us for 30 minutes. In five minutes this action will begin, which you and I will be able to see. Everyone, please stay where you are. Here we go, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I think that this cultural event in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will make me think. And what we've heard is so many very difficult stories of life, and the figures that were given at the beginning are thousands and thousands of women who are suffering are a huge tragedy today. I think the Ukrainian Parliament should demonstrate through decision-making respect for women, willingness to fight the phenomenon of violence. I deeply believe that you and I will ratify the Istanbul Convention and we will take many other steps to protect our women. I think that's what we have to do with you every day. And I want to thank our colleagues, our partners, the Swedish Embassy, the Council of Europe. Fellows, thank you, noble lords of the ambassadors. Thank you for being with me. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to thank everyone for this cultural event. I think that there should be more cultural events in the life of the Ukrainian Parliament, that's obvious. I think we're going to make these proposals. And now we're probably going to keep working, if you don't mind. Thank you, colleagues. Dear fellow national MPs! You have been presented with a draft decree on the granting of arrest and arrest (in custody) to the judge of the Kyiv District Economic Court of Skutelnik Pavel Fedorović. According to the procedure, it is provided for by article 221 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which provides for reports, reports, speeches, questions and answers. I would like to inform you that we have received an application with you under the signature of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine concerning the granting of arrest and arrest under the custody of the judge of the Kyiv Court of Justice of the Skatenik Pavel Fedorovic. That's why I brought it in. Therefore, this submission has been made by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and is duly brought before the Committee for its consideration. In accordance with part three of article 221 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please invite the Chief of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mihajlovich Romanyuk, to answer questions raised by the representatives of the parliamentary factions and groups of Ukrainian national deputies. I suggest it's up to five minutes. Please, five minutes for information, five minutes for questions. Please, five minutes, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u91	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In August 2015, the prosecutor - general of Ukraine, Yuri Sevruk, referred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine the arrest and arrest of the judge of the Kyiv Regional Court of Justice, Skutelnik Pavel Fedorović. The submissions indicate that Skutenik Pavel Fedorovic is serving as the judge of the Kyiv Regional Court within a 5-year term. He was in charge of the bankruptcy of one of the Ministry of Defense's companies. In the process of handling the case in November and December of 2014 the head of the Committee of Borrowers of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine expressed concern about the removal of the arbitral presiding officer and the appointment of another arbitrator in charge of the matter. Since the problem had not been resolved for a long time, in April 2015, the director of the company entrusted one of the long - term acquaintances with Judge Skotelnik and asked him to contribute to a positive solution to the problem. To that end, outside the court, the person met with Judge Skutelnik. And in the course of the conversation, Judge Skutelnik said that in order to satisfy the concern about the removal and replacement of an arbitrator, 15,000 U.S. dollars must be paid off wrongly. Otherwise, trouble will not be satisfied. About three weeks later, the funds recorded, according to the materials, were handed over to Judge Skutelnik. And the next day in court, Judge Skutelnik was satisfied with the concerns of the director of the Ministry of Defence. On the same day, the authorities of the pretrial investigation conducted searches in the office of work, in the residence, and in the place of the State registration of Judge Skutelnik, in which the bills had been removed, which had by then been noticed by the relevant operational services. After such events, Judge Skullnik disappeared. He's been declared wanted. And he's been searching for a long time. In such circumstances, as Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I supported this submission and brought it to your discretion. According to the authorities of the previous investigation, Judge Skutelnik is qualified under part four of article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine as obtaining a service person who is in a position of responsibility, an unfair advantage, particularly largely for making such a service person in the interests of the person who offers the wrong benefit, any action using the authority given to him, coupled with the requirement of unlawful advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations, now is the time for questions for representatives of MP factions and groups and national MPs. And that's why I'm asking you to record the question. Please sign up for the question. Salovi Yuri Igorevich, Petra Dustenka's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u93	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Mr. President of the Supreme Court, please tell me, because often when the Attorney-General comes to Parliament, or you are as Head of the Supreme Court, with the responsibility and withdrawal of immunity, these people are often able to leave our country. That's why I have a question. It's not a farce, it's a real case, and this judge is actually in the country, and he's actually going to be called to account, is this a formal submission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u94	Criminal conduct is being investigated, Judge Skullnik is physically in the bed of the Supreme Council today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u95	Easy. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We will support the submission made by the Chief Justice. At the same time, I would like to inform my fellow MPs that last week, following my subpoena, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine declared illegal the actions of the Supreme Council and cancelled the Supreme Council's decision to grant consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Igor Mosiyczuk. Parliament's decision was overturned on the grounds that it violated the procedure for dealing with the issue of drawing Mosiyczuk to criminal responsibility. And I would ask all fellow MPs to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules Act for the Future, especially in the section on dealing with the removal of our colleagues. Of course, if someone has committed a crime, he has to answer, that is definitely our position. But no one has the right to act impartially, depriving the accused of his word and of his right to defend himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u97	In this case, a preliminary examination was made by the profile committee. Judge Skullnik and his advocate, a lawyer, took part in the committee’s work. And now the judge is present here, in the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u98	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u99	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The question I have right now is really the next point. Where are our fellow national deputies, who should now be involved in the consideration of the matter? Andriy Volodymyrovich, if you can, will announce and invite the Kuluar MPs where they are, because now we're going to ask questions before the judge, and eventually parliament just won't be able to ensure proper will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u100	Please. Well, it's not a question, it's a replica. Dear colleagues, consideration of the matter will take place according to the procedure there for minutes 20. And I very much ask, and here my address is to representatives of factions' heads, to ensure the presence of deputies in the consideration of the matter. And the question about you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, is exhausted. Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u101	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I will only allow myself to begin with procedural moments. The point is that, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, the appropriate submission of Parliament's consent to the detention and arrest of a judge is first sent to the Supreme Court, which should support it and continue to be submitted to the Supreme Council accordingly. In this case, the head of the Supreme Court, having received such an application from the Attorney General’s office, has examined the relevant facts and, as soon as I have reported the facts to you, supported him by his submission to Parliament. The committee has considered the matter accordingly, and I want to tell you that today all the subjects of the application and the Deputy Attorney General of Zalisco are present at the meeting of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Supreme Court. Therefore, according to the Rules, if you have questions, for example, not only to the Supreme Court, but you are interested in certain specific circumstances, you can take the opportunity to contact the Deputy Attorney General, and he was present at the meeting of the Committee, and he is fully prepared, as I understand, to provide an answer under all circumstances, to the questions that are being considered today. In addition, I remind you that according to the Rules today, Paul Fedorovich Skutelnik himself is sitting in the front row. He's here, he's not running away, he's in Ukraine now, and he's taking part in Parliament's work. Since the Rules provide for him and the opportunity to give him the floor, then any MP who considers him possible and appropriate may ask him questions that he will likely provide some answers to. For my part, I would like to tell you that the committee, in accordance with article 220 of the Rules, has checked the documents and the subject matter of the application and, accordingly, the conditions of submission and all the materials. At his meeting on September 24, he decided to recommend that the Parliament consider an appropriate submission, since it met the requirements of article 220 of the Supreme Council Rules of Law. And we think this submission can be supported. Of course, it's a matter for the Supreme Council, but no procedural disturbances in the data and, let's say, the materials that were previously placed in your hands were found by the committee. Instead, he supported the decision that they were in line with the procedures envisaged and could serve as a basis for the consideration of Parliament. Thank you. On this, I completed a brief report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u102	Thank you. To illustrate, Paul Fedorovich, a judge on whom the matter is being considered, gives the floor to Skutelnik. Please turn on the microphone. Or no, you obviously have to go out to the rostrum and talk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Please note that this plenary session is part of the criminal process. So I ask that I also be given the opportunity to exercise the right of protection, because after my speech, to also give the word to my lawyer, who is right here, right outside the door, he just wasn't allowed into the bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u104	Dear reporter, there is no such procedure for giving a word to a lawyer. Please have the time prescribed by law to explain, and please give an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the law, I am not a suspect. My suspicions were never announced or served by the Attorney General. During this time, I have never received any suspicion from the Attorney General or Deputy Attorney General by post. The Law does not provide for the possibility of consenting to be taken under the watch of an undeclared or unsuspected person. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the reasons for the submission at the time of its referral to the Supreme Court of Ukraine were unfounded and groundless. The application is based on what I can do to influence the course of the investigation while I am in the judge’s office, referring to what I am in the advisory room. However, my term of office as judge was long overdue. I'm direct. I'm looking into things. In addition, I never shirked from the authorities of the pretrial investigation. I also point out that the report directly to the head of the Justice Committee does not correspond to reality. Since this may be confirmed by the record of the committee’s meeting itself, the committee actually succumbed to the pressure of the Attorney General’s Office and refused to verify the legality of the added evidence before that submission. Well, there's direct evidence that forged documents have been added to the file. This is a given fact, I understand, perhaps, how the Head of the Supreme Court, as a result of his workload, was unable to pay attention or not to check, but this is obvious and evident, because directly my wife's attorney, my wife's lawyer, has been erased from the search records by the Attorney General's office. Because at first they removed the keys to the apartment during the investigation, and only four hours later, they searched the apartment and found the funds there. I also point out that in the materials of submission, there is a direct conclusion of forensic expertise, according to which, directly, the funds that the authorities of the pretrial investigation have claimed to have marked, no traces of these marked funds have been found either on me or on my clothes or in the workplace or at home. I also point out that according to these documents, the funds were marked like this, and the money that went into the expertise was already taken from the stakes. Any risks referred to by the Attorney General's Office in their application do not correspond to reality. I also point out that the law does not provide for the possibility. There is a clear reason for the person to be detained. And the reasons they're now referring to, they're not just-just. And once again, by law, I am not a suspect, I am not a suspect, I am a suspect, and I have not been served or advertised. We even personally sent parts of the deputies to the Attorney General's office in a similar case where he overturned Guzir's decision. However, they do not respond to all my appeals or my lawyers, nor do they overturn such an illegal decision. It just goes on their side as a pressure to make a direct confession. Why should I confess my guilt if I don't consider myself guilty and do not commit that crime? We are constantly hampered by the right to defend ourselves, we are denied permanent legal counsel, and we are hampered by evidence in the congregation. Therefore, I consider the application to be unfounded and unfounded. And I would like to point out once again that false documents have been added before the Office of the Attorney General. I've got the evidence, and I can go up to each of you right now and show you the difference in these documents. They have a search protocol, every search protocol in the same room in three options. The question on the committee has not been checked; it is recorded by recording. We insisted on checking. Regulation. The Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council provides for the duty of the committee to verify the legality of obtaining evidence. There is no legal investigation in the Attorney-General's Office, I boldly state it, for one simple reason, since Guzar, the former attorney-general's first deputy general, has never been a trial director in a given criminal conduct, he had no right to address the relevant concerns of the Kjeeva District Court. In addition, when these problems came to the Pecher District Court, the principle of authorizing cases was violated: they all happened to fall to just one investigative judge. All the rulings of the investigating judge are predeterminedly unjust decisions. Moreover, I point out that according to the submission materials according to the judge’s approval on the stand. We didn't find any more money for 16 numbers. Only 17 numbers were passed on to another person according to the knownly marked use protocol. And I'm also pointing out that the person who allegedly transferred funds directly from the investigation position to me was never a representative of that particular enterprise in the case. Moreover, the person in question does not even know where the courtroom is. The person in question had never taken part in the matter. Most of them. A large part of the main witnesses in the case were either drawn to criminal responsibility, or are actually under. Well, you could say that, under the pressure of law enforcement. So I ask you not to support this submission. I don't run away once. The entire time after the committee was held, I was summoned only once to the Attorney General's Office. I went to the Attorney General's office for questioning. After that, my lawyer and I were just taking our own initiative in the prosecutor’s office. All of it. So there's no reason at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u106	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u108	Thank you very much. You can take your place. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, each faction has the right to speak. And I'm asking you to sign up for the honorary deputies for the factions. And you can take your place. And, Your Honor, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. I give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich, "The Self-Help Union." And I ask the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm standing on the rostrum, looking at this semiarid hall. And I'm surprised whether we really want to look at it qualitatively, make the right decisions, or, I don't know what Parliament really does. Because this is actually the biggest discredit. As to the question that we now have on the table. I would like to draw attention to this: Parliament does not decide whether to arrest or arrest a judge, but Parliament only gives permission. So in this case, the things that the judge has just spoken about in this case will be able to take full advantage of the relevant procedural possibilities before the court when the prosecution makes such a submission. Moreover, in the case of co-operation with the investigation, there is a question whether the prosecution will be able to use any procedural means of filing a detention and arrest. At the same time, it is equally surprising to the other judges, for whom we have the understanding that should be here, in the session room. And a big request to the Attorney General's Office to step up in order for us to be served by those judges who do not have the right to wear a robe. However, once again, I stress that Parliament is a political body. The Supreme Council Committee considered the submission, determined that all documents were properly formed. Therefore, I believe that we should allow the investigation to complete the case that has begun and allow the court to make an objective decision. Without such a decision by the Supreme Council, the matter will remain suspended in the air, and it will not have a logical conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u110	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Ivan Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u111	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw the attention of all of us, society, including to this judge who spoke in this rostrum about what Parliament will now do. In no case does Parliament decide to arrest. This is the decision of the court. But Parliament must now pass a decision according to which this judge, who uses inviolability, will be aligned with the rights of all Ukrainian citizens. If he has committed a crime, he must be guaranteed the right to defend himself, but he must be held accountable. So I think the "Fatherland" faction is going to vote in favour of consenting to be held accountable and arrested by a judge who is suspected of committing a criminal offence, namely, obtaining an unfair advantage, a bribe. At the same time, I would like to say one more thing, dear colleagues. We have 8.5,000 judges in the country. If each one of them, and we all know what it means to be a judge today, we will deal with the matter on such a procedure, we will no longer do anything in this room, but we will only listen to the question of giving consent to be held accountable. Therefore, the decision must be clear, ours. All citizens are equal before the law. You've committed a crime. You're responsible. And no consideration of such matters should be given to such a procedure in Parliament. We need to make changes to the Constitution, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and let the Attorney General do his job, let the judges pass their sentences, and those who commit crimes bear criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u112	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u113	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! And the MP's in touch, and the judge's inviolability, and the inviolability of the President of Ukraine are all the survival of the feudal past. Before the law, we must all be equal. For this, our boys were on Maidan and the girls, and the entire Ukrainian people. That's why our heroes are protecting the country today. Not to take away privileges, but others were looking for a place to earn a piece of bread to feed their family. It is not for this day that we choose independence so that some may be exposed to inviolability, in order to avoid responsibility, in order to choose national deputies, hide behind responsibility, while others there, Grandma, Grandpa in the village for a bag of skins will be laid down and planted, and no one will protect him. We see a judge coming and bringing in three lawyers. Can millions of Ukrainian citizens afford legal aid, protection, and legal aid? The vast majority of people and one lawyer can't hire, but, you see, the judge brings three with him. I don't know if this judge is guilty or not guilty - one God knows. And I wish our courts would be cleared. Regrettably, it is difficult to find objective courts that do not carry out political orders. There are, though. As I have already reported, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine has taken two decisions on my behalf, where, in particular, it has declared the illegal inaction of the President of Ukraine in the non-appealing of the amendment of the members of the Central Electoral Commission. And on the second call for the recognition of illegal decisions by the Supreme Council regarding the criminalization of Igor Mosiyczuk. Sadly, though, not everyone is so fortunate. Because in a large account, we were obviously lucky for one reason: the breaking of the law is so violent that the judges were nowhere to be seen as making legal decisions and supporting our lawsuits. All other people or most people are not happy. When they don't have $15,000, when they don't have hair on their hands, when they don't have mud, they can't protect themselves. They cannot find the truth in a court of law. They cannot achieve justice. So it is crucial that there be jobs in the country, that there be an investor in the country, that there be a favourable investment climate in Ukraine, a key one, not just tax cuts or deregulation. And the key is independent justice. So that every investor who brings money here, into our country, creates jobs, gives people jobs, pays them to know that they won't take his investment, take away his property, take away his property. And that's why we need three basic principles: the rule of law, freedom of speech and respect for human rights, for our country to be a truly democratic country. Regrettably, none of these basic principles are being followed in Ukraine today. The faction of the Radical Party therefore advocates the abolition of parliamentary and judicial, and presidential, inviolability. All equal before the law. Before the Lord God and before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u114	Thank you. I'm going to give the floor to a representative from Peter Dustenk's Block. But I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that there will be a vote in a few minutes. And I'm asking the factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs and everyone who's in the towers to enter the hall, to take up jobs. And I would like to give the floor to the representative of the Block of Peter Poshenko, Ruslan Knazevitch, please. Princeevich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u115	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Well, first of all, I'd like to correct the information that the judge has been told that it seems to be on the committee, and it will be possible to confirm from the transcript that a representative of the Attorney General's Office has put pressure on members of the committee at the committee meeting. Well, frankly, if you think it's a pressure to represent the Attorney General within two minutes, because he's taken over the rules, and then, I've cut him in half, I'm sorry, well, you could call it that. On the other hand, if the committee makes a decision because it does not see any violations according to the procedure, it is an objective decision of the committee. And if you're going to allow yourself to make such statements in the Council, I think it would be right to check these facts or correct them. At least you'll have the committee react to these things. As far as what's going on. Friends, once again, it's about what we're talking about right now, this is what Ruslan Sidorovich said, we're not arresting anyone, we're not delaying anyone, and we're only giving the law enforcement authorities the opportunity if they consider it appropriate, to appeal to the court for a precautionary measure. Obviously that's their right as they will if we vote, that's what they'll do. What's more, I'm going to tell you that it's still not clear how the courts will decide, because we have practice when the courts disagreed with the Attorney General's Office and applied other precautions than those proposed by the Attorney General's Office in the form of arrest. So, my friends, on the contrary, in this case, it stimulates the judge's ability to work more actively with the investigation and to prove his innocence, it just prejudices any kind of action that we've talked about. But we have fears that he will not leave Ukraine, that he may not escape, that he may in no way be able to press the investigation. That's what makes it possible for us to vote. And that's why we need to define ourselves, not stick our tail out. What we want is that we don't want to choose judges, we don't want to fire judges, we don't want to bring responsibility, we don't want to change the Constitution. That can't be right. Parliament is obliged to exercise the constitutional powers imposed on it and otherwise does not need such a parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u116	So, colleagues, we've gone through the whole procedure of discussion, and now we're going to go to the vote. I invite MPs to the hall, I ask them to take their seats, and I want to stress that we are making a decision that is provided by law only to allow the prosecution to carry out its actions. But before that, I'll put it to a vote. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. We have to have two votes: separate arrests, separate arrests. Ready to vote? So I'm betting, I'm voting, I'm voting, I'm voting to give consent, I'm arresting the judge of the Kyiv District Court. So, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[13:03:20]] For-189 Dear colleagues, that's a sad result. Once again, I invite MPs into the hall who are, I see they come in. Now we're going to have another vote. Please come into the hall who is. I'd like to invite the deputies to the hall, and we'll have another vote. Dear colleagues, I've consulted with our lawyers, we can't take the vote, we can't take the vote. So I'm just going to ask you to invite the deputies back into the hall. I ask once again the MPs who hear, to enter the hall, it will not be a good signal when the Supreme Council does not carry out the statutory functions. Society, there is no discussion on the matter. I'm asking you to call the deputies now. So is there anyone else we can call to the hall? Colleagues, I'm re-voting, signal voting. Please vote. Colleagues, signal vote. Please vote. [[13:05:51]] For 203 My colleagues, they're not here. I can see everyone. Well, look at you guys. Yes, please show by factions. I very much ask my fellow MPs now to call everyone to the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to the faction management, to the MPs to invite MPs into the voting room. We'll wait a few minutes to allow everyone on the committees or in the towers to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, it is a shame for the Supreme Council of Ukraine when on such important issues we cannot make a decision solely because of lack of discipline. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I once again urge the factions to inform the deputies that they will enter the working room, not to leave the hall. Society, I say, I'm going to ask that the Voice of Ukraine publish a roll-call vote on this issue. Let society know which one of the deputies came to work here, and who came just to get a mandate, which is unknown for what purposes. This is a matter of responsibility for Parliament and for each of us. So I very much ask the deputies to come into the hall. Heads of factions, factions' secretaries to call MPs into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll wait a few more minutes, and I'm asking you not to leave the hall, but to invite a fellow MP into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we get another signal, company? Have the deputies come to the hall? I'm asking you to take a job, I'm asking you to take a job and go into the hall. So I'm re-voting, a signal vote to give permission to detain the judge of the Kyiv District Court. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please take part in the signal vote. Vote. Vote, colleagues. [[13:11:18]] For 210 I'll explain, company. According to the procedure, we can't move the vote to another day, it's going to have to be a new submission, and the whole way is going to have to go. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like a colleague to come into the hall. Invite MPs. Dear colleagues, we invite the deputies to the hall. Now in a few minutes, we're going to vote again, if it's not in the beep, I'm going to put it to a vote, and what the decision of the hall is going to be, society. As chairman, I have no other option in this situation. So I'm giving you a few more minutes to invite the deputies who are on the Supreme Council to come into the hall, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the hall. There will be another vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, please come into the hall, there's going to be another vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u118	Yeah, ready for another vote? Colleagues, please prepare to take up jobs. Please take up your jobs. And once again, I'm putting a signal vote on consent to detain the judge of the Kyiv District Economic Court. Ready to vote? Andrew? Are you ready to vote, take jobs? May I have the signal vote, please? Please take part in the vote and please vote. Please vote. [[13:19:20]] For 211 Everyone got to vote, were they all there? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please invite MPs. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Come on in, take your jobs. Dear colleagues, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall, and we'll have another vote. Please come into the hall. Yes, colleagues, please concentrate. Take up jobs. There's going to be another vote. Please come into the hall, take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-25-m0.u119	Dear fellow national MPs! Look, we don't have much choice. Our vote allows the law enforcement system to be cleared up, but in any case, the Supreme Council cannot be the body that can cover crimes, bribery in different areas and more when it comes to those who are untouchable. So I do propose that we now consolidate before the vote, once again, and allow the law enforcement system to prove either guilt or the accused, respectively, its right. If we don't do this, the question won't be solved. And in fact, I think that everyone in this room can't take responsibility for covering crimes, especially bribery, if there's even that assumption. So I ask everyone once again to take their seats, to prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote and allow the law enforcement system to carry out all necessary actions as provided by law. Ready? Colleagues! We don't throw anyone away for playing, we give them the opportunity and the right to understand the law enforcement system. Let's have another signal vote. Ready, colleagues? Take your seats. There's going to be a signal vote. I don't think there's any party signs here, and there can't be any. I ask everyone to vote. Ready? Let's do it again. Guys, take your seats. [[13:26:43]] For 223 Great. And now I ask, my fellow countrymen, to remain in your seats. Let's take our seats. So, colleagues, have they all taken their seats? Did everyone take their seats? Please, let's re-vote. Everybody in their seats. I think it should be effective now. The constitutional right of every Ukrainian national deputy to vote. And we can't ignore that right, so we have to do it again. Please, colleagues, a signal vote. Vote, signal, everyone, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[13:28:18]] For 221 Colleagues, factions. Let's go over the factions again. Peter Poshenko's Block – 104 People's Front – 49, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 18, Radical Party – 16, Oleg Ljashka, Fatherhood – 11, Rebirth – 0, Will of the People – 2, non-fractional – 21. Let me ask you, colleagues, not to leave the Supreme Council Hall, but to carry out my constitutional duty. Let's try again, please. Colleagues, let's try the vote again. Please, colleagues. [[13:29:50]] For 223 Colleagues, three national deputies. One more vote, please. Once again, please vote. Vote. [[13:30:13]] For 230 And now, dear fellows, in general. And now we're voting in general. Suggestion, Andry Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, offer. First, the proposal, in line with the detention of a court of general jurisdiction, to allow the Court of Justice of the General Court of Skutelnik Pavel Fedorovich, a judge of the Kyiv District Court. Please vote, please vote. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[13:30:58]] For 225 Colleagues, the following proposal: to allow the detention of the judge of the Kyiv Master’s Court of Justice, Skutelnik Pavel Fedorovich. Please vote on this proposal. Guys, it's not funny at all, it's sad. All right, calm down. Ready to vote? Please, this proposal, consent. Arresting the judge of the General Court. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. [[13:31:45]] For 228 Yes, 228. The decision has been made. Next. I'd like to give my consent to the arrest of the judge of the General Court. the general jurisdiction of Skutelnik Pavel Fedorovich. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote on the proposal. [[13:32:09]] For 222 This proposal did not give us the required number of votes. Once again, I offer to go back to. Back, colleagues, back, please come in. Once again, there is an offer to return to the proposal to grant consent to arrest the General Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Kyiv Region of Skutenik Pavel Fedorović. Are you ready to return to this offer? Vote. Please support this proposal. This is for the return. Vote. [[13:32:56]] For 225 Colleagues, according to factions, Peter Prashenko's Block, 103, People's Front, 53. Colleagues, one more time, one more time. The proposal to revert to the proposal to the General Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Kyiv District of Skutelnik Petar Fedorovic. Have you taken your seats? Please come back, we vote. [[13:33:53]] For 228 We're back, 228. Now I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Consent to arrest the judge of the Kyiv Master’s Court of Justice, Skutelnik Pavel Fedorovich. But please, colleagues, Sergey Alexiyovich, come on. I'm asking you to be very focused, let's vote on my proposal that I just made. Please vote, please support, colleagues. [[13:34:26]] For 230 230, Decision approved. Colleagues, decision taken. Thank you for understanding, we've given the system a chance to protect itself. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I wish us success in committee work. Tomorrow is a very important day, please be in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor.
