ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please take your seats. We're starting our work, fellow nationals. Please prepare to register and take your seats. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:07:39]] 305 national deputies in the hall. Dear colleagues! I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before we begin our work, dear colleagues, let us welcome the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies! Welcome to Allon Volodymyr's birthday! [[Applause]] Vladimir Mikhailovich Katsubi's birthday is today. Welcome, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! [[Applause]] And Dmitri Volodymyrovich Link. Welcome to your birthday, Dmitri Volodymyrovich! [[Applause]] Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, we will begin our plenary week with you. We have so many questions that we need to consider, important ones. And first of all, I want to encourage everyone to do systemic quality work. I would very much like us to identify ourselves and adopt a series of laws of Ukraine that stand in the order of the day that people expect us to do, Ukraine. Including the issue of economic stability; the social sphere; education, science; the question of the next step of depriving MPs and judges of the inviolability; the question of the local elections expected by the whole country; the question of the inclusion of the day-to-day changes in the Constitution in a part of the decentralization of power, the historic decision of which is scheduled for the fourth time, the real return of power to people; and many other issues, honourable colleagues, within the framework of the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It all needs our quality work. So after the factions have spoken, I'm going to propose a parliamentary regime for this day. I'll expect you to support it. Dear colleagues, the events that took place in Mukacheva, have rocked the whole country, and I believe they have challenged the state, the state. We have to fight banditry, we have to fight corruption, we have to fight smuggling -- all that today is the phenomenon that destroys our state. And I think that, in this case, the Ukrainian Parliament can't stand apart from this process, and today we're going to be determined about our involvement in investigating what's happened, so that there's nothing to determine who's responsible for this process, which is why they don't hide behind the slogans, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on. Anyone who violates the law must answer to the law, to the people, and all must know that if God did not create the crime, he would be punished. Dear colleagues, everyone, please concentrate on your work, please take your seats, prepare to register in accordance with the Rules, we have 30 minutes from the factions and groups, and we will begin our consideration of the issues of the agenda. I would ask all of you, dear colleagues, to concentrate on work, each minute is very important in considering and making decisions. Please register with factions and groups. Please, Your Honor, National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I think the whole country is horrifyingly watching developments in Mukacheva on the third day. We talk a lot about Ukraine having to acquire European values that we are moving to the European Union, that we are building a modern European state. But this is exactly what the Right Sector is doing in Mukacheva today, Europe is starting to build a new border with Ukraine, to strengthen borders from Ukraine, and instead of making European integration, they're starting to see us as a country like Somalia, Syria, Libya. That is, a country where the internal gulf of banditism, where arms go around the country, where anyone wants to, creates training camps, bases, armed cars, convoys, not just in the east, where the war is going, but in the center of the country, in the west. We see you and the Right Sector building roadblocks under Kiev, stopping cars, checking who's driving, frankly, telling the cameras honestly that they've put themselves in charge of controlling the movement of interior workers and other force organs. Tell me, in which country would that be allowed? In what modern European country would such processes take place? In France, when a few months ago, in January, the terrorists seemed to have taken hostages, shot the newspaper of a famous French newspaper, and the specialnaz cleaned up everyone in one day and finished this dirty story. And no one in Europe raised the question whether it was legal or not. That's why we, the MP's Rebirth Party, demand to hear the report of the leaders of the force organs and give a legal assessment of all the events that are taking place today. If the Right Sector is a political organization, they should be involved in politics. If it is an armed military union, they must be in the east and fight for the country’s independence and evaluate their actions accordingly. Today it is essentially a gang that is armed, that does not belong to any law enforcement authorities and that does what they want to do. So I think we need to evaluate these questions, give them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u3	Vladya! Vladya! Dear colleagues, please hold yourself in your arms. Keep your hands where I can see them. I think there's a lot of people here who are physically okay, but no one's jumping. Democracy is what everyone says is necessary. Colleagues! Colleagues! Colleagues, please finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u4	So we ask you to listen to the heads of law enforcement and to give a proper assessment of the actions of the Right Sector in relation to the civilian citizens of Ukraine. Thank you and think that each person understands that his or her conduct should be controlled in the same way that any normal person can control himself mentally and physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lapin, Igor Lapin, People's Front, please. Igor Lapin, People's Front. Maxim Burbak, leader of the faction. By the way, my fellow Members, I would like to announce that, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and under the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the People's Front of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call of 3 July 2015, I report on the election of the head of the National Front of the People's Front of Ukraine, Mr. Maksim Yuriovich. Welcome to the election! And I'd like to invite you to speak to the leader of the People's Front faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u6	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs, distinguished journalists! A martyr's shootout as a "breakout" shows us where to root out corruption. And the Prime Minister did the right thing by ordering all of Zacarpathian customs to be released and investigating all the facts of corruption. I think other customs should wait for such fate. Parliament needs to support bills that continue to reform the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and today there are bills that aim at combating corruption. We stand and vote in favour of the parliamentary integrity and inviolability of the judges. Mukacheve’s investigation should not end with nothing but the intrusiveness of someone, the bandits, and their patrons must be held accountable, and the patriotic signs should not be covered, and the heads of people should be pushed away. Heroes are when they fight on the front. And when there's smuggling in the back, they're ordinary bandits and crimes. Unfortunately, all of this happens when a government delegation is now in the United States, Canada, Britain, where it convinces foreign investors that there is an investment attraction in Ukraine. Yesterday, Prime Minister Arsenij Yatzenuk met with the President of the United States of America, Barack Obama, U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden, who supported the reform course that is currently being implemented by the government in Ukraine. Prime Minister Arsenij Yatsenuk has approached foreign bankers and investors with investments in the main and attractive sectors of our economy -- agriculture, infrastructure, energy. He urged the American business to participate in the process of large-scale privatization. And we should also help by adopting appropriate legislation. The Prime Minister has also addressed us to the Ukrainian Parliament, which must adopt a number of necessary bills this week in order to introduce a reform course. Today we have the bill of the government in order of the day. The approvals that will allow for continued cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and the inclusion of more than $3 billion in the economy will enable the exchange rate to be stabilized and the economic situation in the country stabilized. This week, Parliament should start constitutional reform on decentralization. We will also vote in favour of removing the inviolability of judges and deputies. We have no right to close this session until all the urgent issues of reform of Ukraine are accepted. To that end, we have the right to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting if necessary. And for the rest. All are now fascinated by the experience of Georgia – the implementation of reforms. But in Georgia, Parliament has adopted all the government bills, and unfortunately, we have 30 percent of them. So, dear colleagues, let us work fruitfully this week and adopt such necessary bills in order for Ukraine to continue its reform course, which is supported by the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Last week at the Donbas contact group meeting, OSCE representative Martin Saidik announced that the negotiations had been constructive. This gives hope for further deescalation, dispossession of arms, and reconciliation. The opposition bloc fully supports these measures and requires Parliament's consideration of relevant laws under the Minsk Treaties in order to end the conflict diplomatically. At the same time, the latest events in Mukacheva caused great concern. A few weeks ago, the Opposition Block of Parliament warned of an exacerbation of the criminogenic situation in the country. Without a clear response from the authorities, we demand that we create a TSC to investigate events and control Parliament's situation. What happened in Mukacheva is an example of what is happening throughout the country. It's been 500 days of new power. This is a time of unfulfilled promises to Ukrainian citizens and a total loss of savings. During the days, the Ministry of Finance was victoriously reporting that the population was selling more dollars than it was buying. This is an indicator of the poverty of people who are forced to spend their last savings. The government's promises to index pensions and salaries from July 1st remained unfulfilled. This hit the pensioners who were left behind. Instead of developing the real sector, Kabin has conducted a large-scale presentation in Washington of our strategic enterprises for their further sale at no cost in terms of stagnating the economy. We believe that the government that brought the country to collapse and loading in corruption scandals should resign immediately. As long as this Kabin does not exercise his authority, there will be no chance of survival in Ukraine. Under these conditions, we need to create a government of national rescue, a government of technocrats. The Kabmin quota principle must be completely abandoned. This leads to ministers assigned by quota only serving the interests of the political parties that pushed them. So the Opposition Block requires the formation of a new government that needs to be worked out as quickly as possible with Parliament, a package of economic laws that will help the country survive and ensure social protection for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u9	Please, Andrew Lozova, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u10	Andrew Lozový, Radical Pair of Lazka. I'd like to address you, colleagues, and the names of some of you right now. And I would very much like to ask you, Mr. Head, to give people the opportunity to answer whose names I'm going to call. Most of you won't accept this speech, you won't applaud me, because I tell you the truth, and the truth you don't want to hear, you're afraid of the truth, you're afraid of the responsibility for what you did here, and you're afraid of the responsibility for what you might or might not have done, you're afraid of the responsibility for who you're delegating to executive power, you're afraid of the responsibility for the fact that the power structures that you've delegated to you haven't put order in Ukraine in a year and a half after the Dignity Revolution. 154 days, respected colleagues, the Attorney General of Ukraine is Victor Shockin. What do we see? Corruption, as it was in the Attorney General's Office at all levels, is. Most shadow schemes are covered by prosecutors. We've seen the highest prosecutions involved in the corruption scandals, such as the Deputy Chief of Investigations of the Department of Public Prosecutions, as the Deputy Chief of Public Prosecutions of the Kyiv Region, all know that there in Guzir's fate, the First Deputy Shokina, his cashier, everyone knows that it was the Attorney General's office that allowed one of them to escape. We all see that "thank you," in quotes, the Attorney General's Office, there's still no region, we all see that none of the murderers of Maidan have been punished. Boyko, the leader of the Crime Block faction, said that the situation in the country is getting worse, of course, and it's exacerbated by the fact that regional misdemeanours have been redeemed through the Attorney-General's Office from the responsibility of the Ukrainian people, the criminal situation is exacerbated by the lack of submission, and the Attorney-General considers the perpetrators of the Yanuković, Boyk, Ljovcín, Bakulin and others to be honest, white and plump crimes. And like Kluev, when social resonance makes you think about it in the Council, they let you escape. Instead, the Attorney General’s Office, led by Shokin and Guzirem, has been repressing Ukrainian patriots for a month. But what does it hurt me, my colleagues? There are many people who talk about their patriotism. At the same time, 154 days ago, the Attorney General had been forging. A month ago, Clovis escaped, and only two parliamentary factions -- our Radical Party of Laska and Self-Help have a clear position. And they've put their signatures in a full stack of factions for considering Shokin's resignation. And you're all afraid! I approached the head of the Motherland faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Julia Volodymyr, listen, please. When the Attorney General of Pshonka was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u11	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u12	So we all fought for your release. You say today that your faction has not been considered. How much time does it take - a month? Mayan Self-Defense Group, you're taking care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Next "self-help" speech, Yegor Sobolev, please. Yegor Sobolev, please. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u14	I understand the emotions of my colleagues. I think it's actually the days when we can turn history back, or we can become hostages to this story. It did not happen in itself. Let's think about the whole last week. First, the President of Ukraine returns, cancels the illustration of the Militia General who was responsible for destroying Volinsky Jewish Jews using light - noise grenades. Then the rector of the tax academy who Janukovich was accused of bribery, for you and me being in power, for the President again, Petra Poshenko was found not guilty. Then the judge released a key witness into the queue who could tell a lot about the terror of the Jew. A Witness named Rahimov. And then Mukacheva happened. In fact, we've come to a line with you, to the limit, when, as a power, we stop, we start a real counter-revolution, and everyone feels it not only in Parliament, everyone feels it in every district, in every region, in every town. The trouble is we can't afford to repeat 2005-2010, the country can't handle it, people won't allow it. I think we're all worried when the Right Sector fighters and the Guards are putting machines at each other, but I think we all understand why it's happening the same way. We all disagree with the fact that Janukovitch’s people continue to be in court and act like Yanukovitch’s people. We all disagree with the fact that further in the prosecution's office in the police department, the Security Service continued the same as Janukovich. This very Tereshuk strangler of Volinsky's Jewish Jew, who led the militia in Kiev, in the city where the revolution took place, is a symbol of what is happening. We're parliamentarians, we're often offered to forget about it, but we're actually the superior authorities, we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic. And now we have the opportunity to take a very simple and good step, to put in place all the law enforcement structures of the IMF, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office of the people who will really start implementing ideals, people who will be ideals themselves, people who will be followed by other people. Eka Zguladze, David Sacrarelidze, shows that this is possible even at the level of the intercessors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u15	Ten seconds to complete, Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u16	Let's do this. Otherwise, we face such trials that not all will be able to survive them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u17	Please, Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." Igor Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u18	Ukrainian people, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The events in Mukacheva are the tragedy of the Ukrainian people. When there is a war on the front, when tens of thousands of Ukrainian fighters at the cost of their lives protect Ukraine from the aggressor, thousands of miles from the border, from the front line armed to the teeth, people in expensive jeeps in a new military form are essentially committing banditry. We can call it whatever we want. We can cover ourselves with patriotic slogans. But that's the name of the breakup. I never see when I go to my villages to District 23 in Volinsky, so that the boys of the 51 brigades who served on the front walk in military uniforms! I've never seen that. To them, military form is a tragedy. Because in this military form, they saw comrades die. They saw in this military form how Ukrainian villages were destroyed, and they saw Ukraine disappear. I have a simple question. At what cost are these units financed? Who allows you to buy this form? Why did our group go to Lysichansk two weeks ago and meet with a battalion of intelligence and have one set of military uniforms?Oh, my God! What difference does it make? What's going on in the country? All of these events lead to the fact that those hopes of the Ukrainian people, that we should become a European state, will fall into the shadows for years. That the President's plan, what he said, next year we'll have a visa-free regime, we'll never even hear of it. The European Union will not allow themselves to be armed on their borders. We call for a commission to be set up today to investigate the events in Mukacheva, and we have registered such a determination. And we ask all parties to put their candidates on this committee. We also suggest that on Friday we hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council so that there will be no political show, invite representatives of the Right Sector, national MPs, rapists to tell the truth that took place in Mukachev. And to give an honest answer, and to punish and punish those who did, and above all, those who ordered the events. Our faction insists that this week be open to people to understand what is actually happening in the country. Because I'm sure no citizen of the state wants armed men driving around with machine guns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction meeting of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth vocation of June 30, 2015 reports on the election of the deputy head of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenko" of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tretljakov Aleksandra Juriovich. Welcome to the election, Alexander Yuriovich. And I invite you to speak to the head of Lucenk's faction Yuri Vitaliyovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Events in the Martyr’s Zacarpathic region could not have happened. If it hadn't happened in Mukachev, it would have happened at any other point in our country. It is evident that the old corrupt system, both administrative and force, is no longer in line with the demands of the new country. On the other hand, it is obvious that illegal armed formations have spread throughout the country and are creating new INGs for the purpose of personal or group gain. Then in Mukachev, we witnessed a clash of two phenomena: the newly discovered armed business formation and the old entrapment in the Zacarpathian area of the mafia, which came together in an attempt to redistribute the market. What does that mean? This means that Parliament, this very hall was absolutely right when it adopted key laws, amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act and the National Police Act last plenary week. It is these two laws that make it possible, literally over the months, to fully reboot not only the leadership but also the core staff of these two law enforcement structures. So on behalf of the Petra Prashenko faction, I urge today to complete the procedures that have blocked these laws, to sign them immediately, to sign them to the Head of State, and from the Cabinet of Ministers we demand not to draw the statutory deadline of 2 months, but to appoint immediately a non-party, apolitical, professional leader of the National Police of Ukraine, who will be able to form a force vertical that will be objective to any manifestations of banditry, crime and corruption throughout the country. I want to talk to my colleagues today who left the room during the voting of these laws, this should be a lesson for you, and Parliament has to make systematic decisions on how to reload the system of power. This is not a place for eloquence, this is a place for eloquence to make strategic decisions. If we talk and press the "Z" button by introducing new laws, we're young people, if we just talk and do a show, it doesn't do any good to a country that unfortunately still lives within the old kuchmew system. Dear colleagues, today Bastille's Day is France's national festival to teach us a lesson, the system must be destroyed thoroughly and on its foundation to establish a new rule of law democratic state. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u22	Good afternoon! Today, every performance begins with Mukacheva. But Mukacheve, in fact, is not the name of the city, it is today's diagnosis, the sentence of the entire system without exception. Does anyone not understand that Mukacheve is simply a manifestation of the total merger of all power structures with corrupt clans, with local feuds around every corruption criminal problem that is in most regions of Ukraine? Do we not realize that smuggling has been done by force, crime, and local barons, the local mafia? Don't we understand that amber is the same thing? And take every region, you'll see a completely identical picture. And that's why today you can't assign a case to the Torturer's power structures, because, first of all, they're accomplices. Second, they don't have confidence, they don't have objective results. And thirdly, they're going to cover all this mess and continue to make corruption money. That's why we have the only hope today -- it's not enough to create a law, because there's no law, but there's a temporary commission of inquiry that's going to bring together non-fractional MPs who aren't contaminated with the mafia, young MPs who have authority in the country, and a person must lead, independent of any political power. I'm convinced that it's just the TSC, which today's first question needs to be confirmed, and that it's a worthy man. We need to get out of this state. By Friday, we need to make sure that the report is on the table. And on Friday, the heads of the leaders of the power structures, who are complicit in this criminal corruption, must fly. And not only do we need to talk about the prosecution, but we need to talk about every force structure, without exception, in the package and in the kit, because they're all there, in this mud, sorry. And second of all, what I'd like to talk about. Yesterday, at a meeting with investors, the government involving investors said that it was necessary to halve the rent on natural gas production in order for investors to go to Ukraine. So that's what Fatherland's been asking and insisting on for almost six months: cancel the rent on gas and lower the tariffs on people! The Rent Reduction Act is set to Thursday according to our authorship, and this will lead to a direct reduction in tariffs. And when we're criticized, we either have to be criticized or we don't have to argue with investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u23	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u24	I am also very sorry that today, there is neither the indexation of pensions nor wages, nor, as promised, the abolition of taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u25	Julia Volodymyr, as an exception, is another 10 seconds and complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u26	I'm asking Parliament not to break up on holiday until we vote on what people need, not lobbyists and mobs. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee will now be sitting. Dear fellow members of the National MPs, today there will be a meeting of the Regulatory Committee and a decision will be made to create a TSC for the investigation of Mukacheva events. And I think that Parliament will give a proper assessment of what was going on there. Dear fellow national MPs, I have an offer, we've just discussed this issue on the board of coalitions. To organize the plenary today as follows: from 12.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m., do not announce a break, pause from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m., actually work qualitatively on day-to-day issues. You know what that decision takes 226 votes, so I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats right now, everyone. Please take your seats. And please support this proposal. This proposal was supported by coalition faction leaders to announce a recess in the plenary today, from 2 to 3 p.m., from 12 to 12.30, not to take a half-hour break from the faction, we need to work and we need to work hard enough. From 14 to 15 take a break and maybe there, and including the committee, that's what I'm talking about today, today. Today, committees are largely meeting tomorrow, you know that. The questions that have been prepared for the day are now ready. Colleagues ready to vote? Friends, please take your seats. The proposal to organize today's plenary session is to take just one break from 14 to 15 hours between the morning and evening sessions. The evening session starts at 15 o'clock, we have the issue of inviolability today, we have the issue of local elections today, the continuation of the IMF reform -- a series of issues that are extremely important, the creation of the Mukachev TSK and so on. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote today to create only one break between 14 and 15 hours. And I ask all factions and groups to support this proposal independently, because we don't have time to rest. Please, colleagues, we have to work. Please support this proposal. Please vote for one recess today from 14 to 15 hours between the first and the second, between the morning and evening sessions. Colleagues, please concentrate and support. [[10:45:13]] For the 220. This proposal does not need to be placed in the order of the day, please concentrate, friends. I'm asking you to support everyone. All of them. Concentrated, colleagues, one break from 14 to 15, please all factions support and non-fractional deputies as well. Colleagues, national deputies, please take your seats. Please take your seats. Parliament's work with one break: from 2 to 3 p.m. between morning and evening. Please be supportive. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:46:08]] For 231 Thank you for understanding the distinguished national MPs. Dear fellow national MPs, we have you. Please concentrate! Let's keep it down a little bit, half a ton, keep it down! Please, half a ton! We have 63 draft laws to put in order of the day. At the suggestion of coalition factions, there is a proposal to include them in the agenda of the day session, all 63 draft laws that are presented to you, as a package for consideration. Because there are 63 questions. And please, National Deputy Chicken. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! At a faction meeting today and yesterday, we discussed very important issues. And the faction's position is to exclude 2177a and 2178a from the order of the day. These are the two draft laws that do not solve the issue of smuggling in Ukraine in any way to date, overcoming corruption, filling the income part of the budget, because these draft laws now foresee almost the destruction of the State Customs Service. This body needs reform today. We propose not to include in the agenda, but instead to add a list of the order of today's plenary session with Project 2173a, which is the issue of the settlement of VAT accounts. Today, by July 15, we have entrepreneurs waiting for this bill. He's on the committee, he needs to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, there is a denial of the People's Front. Please, People's Front. Igor Vasjunik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. There were two explosions in Lviv today, and I think. That we should not be silent about this, we should call the head of the Security Service at the Supreme Council Hall to report on what's going on in western Ukraine, what's going on in the city of Lviv. In connection with these explosions, three innocent people were killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u31	Colleagues, please, look, 77a, 78a. No, no. Let's vote with the exception of these two laws, let's continue to work together, between the factions, you'll hold a working session, you'll talk and I'll put them to a vote, these two questions. Do you have a deal? So that all the bills can now be included in the agenda. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. For inclusion in the agenda, which are defined and validated by results. Questions about the inclusion of all 63 laws in the agenda, with the exception of two: 2177a, 2178a. I ask the factions of the People's Front and the BPP to hold consultations on this matter and make me an agreed proposal, then today I will put it to the vote. Do you have a deal? Thank you, colleagues. Please take your seats. Your consideration is for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleagues, take your seats, please, according to my proposal, draft laws for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, at the suggestion of the coalition faction, are being submitted to the question of batch inclusion of all the projects that are defined. Please vote in favour of this proposal, except for the two laws that I have declared. Please vote, please support. For inclusion in the agenda of all the laws that are defined, except for two. Please vote, please support, colleagues. It's the inclusion of questions in the agenda of the day session. The committees will continue to work on this. [[10:50:53]] For 245 Decision taken. I'm asking two factions to consult, make suggestions. And I ask the committees to consider the issues that are included in the agenda of the session. Next, my fellow Members, we are moving on to the question: the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies and judges). Dear colleagues, according to article 149 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Proposal: Report by the Head of the High Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, up to 10 minutes; questions by the rapporteur and answers to them, up to 3 minutes; statement by the President's representative, up to 5 minutes; statements by factions and groups of national deputies, up to 30 minutes, if you do not mind. So the final word of the reporter is up to 3 minutes. Please, Your Honor, I would like you to understand: we will now consider the Order on how to deal with this issue. That's very thoughtful. We need 226 votes to do that. Please, in 10 minutes, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of amending the Constitution of Ukraine has been referred to the matter of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. The bill that we are considering today after our return from the Constitutional Court is a reminder introduced by the President of Ukraine and approved by the Supreme Council for inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, if the Supreme Council is ready to proceed to the draft bill, it should be decided by the Constitutional Court to comply with the bill by articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice considered, at its meeting on July 1, 2015, protocol No. 25, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges, registration No. 1776 of 16 January 2015. As well as the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 June 2015 for number 1-in/2015. But I set it up. The purpose of the bill is to improve the position of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national MPs and judges and to lay down appropriate provisions in the basics of the law in accordance with international standards. For this purpose, it is proposed that article 80, part 1, 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be deleted. Amendments to article 126 of the Ukrainian Constitution suggest that a judge cannot be detained without the consent of the Supreme Council and that a precautionary measure in the form of custody may not be applied to him prior to the sentencing of the court. In doing so, such immunity will not extend to cases of detention caused by a judge or directly after he commits a serious or particularly serious crime against the life and health of a person. Furthermore, article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine is supplemented by the provision that judicial responsibility of a judge is exercised on a general basis. At the same time, it is proposed that the institution of functional immunity be established for judges who cannot be brought to legal responsibility for acts committed in connection with the exercise of justice except in cases of the approval of a well - known judicial decision, a violation of an oath by a judge or the commission of a disciplinary offence. The bill is included in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 151-8 of February 5, 2015. According to article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered by the Supreme Council on the availability of the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Pursuant to the Supreme Council Order of February 5, 15 for number 152-8, the bill has been sent to the Constitutional Court to reach a conclusion that the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine are met. According to the Constitutional Court's conclusion of June 16, 2015, No. 1-B/2015, in the case of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's appeal, the bill is recognized as meeting the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Basic Law. At the same time, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine made a number of warnings about the bill. In particular, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine points out that the amendments proposed by the bill to article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine determine the possibility of restricting judicial immunity by consent of the Supreme Council of Justice in two cases. That is, arresting a judge and choosing a precautionary measure to keep him in custody. However, according to the Constitutional Court, the current legislation also provides for another precautionary measure and administrative sequestration aimed at restricting the freedom and freedom of movement of a person in the event of an offence. Yes, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, along with a precautionary measure of custody, defines a house arrest, which consists of banning a suspect, accused of leaving his residence 24 hours a day or a certain period of time. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences has fixed administrative arrest as a type of administrative merger. Failure to take these measures into account in the proposed draft law on part three of article 126 of the Constitutional Court, the Constitution of Ukraine, to the conviction of the Constitutional Court may result in unjustified restrictions on freedom and freedom of movement if necessary applied to a person under domestic administrative arrest. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine also issued a warning regarding the determination of a violation of a judge’s oath as a basis for bringing a judge to legal responsibility for acts committed in connection with the exercise of justice. According to the Constitutional Court, this is not in line with the position of the European Commission for Democracy because of the law, the Venice Commission, which has repeatedly indicated that the notion of a breach of an oath is too vague and cannot therefore constitute grounds for the dismissal of a judge. Moreover, the Constitutional Court points out that the European Court of Human Rights points out in its rulings that the determination of a breach of an oath as a basis for the dismissal of a judge from office makes it possible for an excessive, broad and inaccurate interpretation of the application. And finally, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine made a warning regarding the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the Final Position of the Bill, which, I recall, determine the order of taking effect. In particular, according to the Constitutional Court, such provisions cannot be subject to the regulation of a general legislative act, especially regarding amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, since they do not comply with the requirements of article 8 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. According to part of the first article 150 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, if the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concludes that a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on its whole or individual provisions is a warning to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall decide on the issue of further work on the bill and shall determine the deadline for submission of the relevant subjects as defined in part two of article 142, the deadline for processing proposals, amendments to the bill, the deadline for the submission of relevant documents to the national deputies and the date for consideration of the relevant amendments to the bill. Accordingly, the committee has prepared a draft decree, which is registered and handed down to you, to which we propose that the Supreme Council decide on further work on the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies and judges. Given that some of the lines proposed in this bill have already passed because we accepted it a month ago, and considering the lines to be taken into account, taking into account the relevant rules of the Rules, it was suggested to the coalition to change the lines in the draft decrees, and I have been instructed to resound the new lines. In particular, it is proposed to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the bill by 15 June 2015. The work of the Committees of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council on budgetary matters, the prevention of corruption, European integration, between August 25, 2015. The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to deal with these proposals after obtaining the relevant conclusions of the committees defined in paragraph 2 of this section. And arrange for the submission of the documents provided for in part three of this article after receiving such documents from other committees and making the appropriate decision, that is, after August 25. Finally, it is recommended that the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of national deputies and judges at registration number 1776 be considered at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council after 25 August 2015. Thank you. I finished the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u33	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, stay. Ruslan Petrovich! Ruslan Petrovich! Question-answer to the reporter. For three minutes, please sign up for Ruslan Petrovich. Andrew Illenko, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u35	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Mr. Ruslan, it's been said for months now that this bill has been about removing the immunity of MPs and judges as well. Yes, of the deputies he removes the inviolability and of course "Freedom" will vote for him in any way. What, though, is the removal of the inviolability of judges? Nothing like that is left in the same direct text as article 126, "The independence and inviolability of judges is guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The effect on judges is in any way prohibited by the text." It used to be without the consent of the Supreme Council, now without the consent of the High Council of Justice. How, then, can this be qualified as a removal of immunity from judges? In fact, the integrity of the judges remains the same. Please explain why this approach has been adopted, not a complete removal of the integrity of judges, as well as a complete removal of the integrity of the national MPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u36	I recommend that you read the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, as well as the individual opinions of seven members of the Constitutional Court. I'll say it's an unprecedented case where out of the 15 members of the Constitutional Court who participated in the discussion and voted 7 had separate thoughts. So the actual decision was made by a simple majority. As to why this approach has been applied. The President is the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the Constitution. This is his position and he's entitled to such positions. Why is it so shaped? Because the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, has repeatedly called attention to the need to try as little as possible to leave the political impact on the appointment, release and prosecution of judges. Thus, the approach recommended by the Venice Commission is applied. I don't see any difficulty in that. Another point that even before that approach is certain warnings from the Constitutional Court, which we must correct now, is that what the Constitution and the Law of the Rules require.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Neda Oleg. Oleg Neda, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u39	Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Knazevitch, please tell me, do you realize that a similar illustration of the inviolability that is taking place in our bill or the President's bill does not exist in any democratic European country? And does this give us the right, as you decide, to collect 150 signatures in part of the immunity of deputies, to take the appropriate position of the Supreme Council? Does this apply, this right, only to judges? I would like you to explain the procedure for possible amendment by the Supreme Council of the bill introduced by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u41	Well, I'll allow myself, Anatoly Sergiyovich, to say that it's not my vision, it's the vision of the Constitution and the Rules Act and the position of the committee. I don't want to give any political evaluations right now, in fact, in most countries of the world, there's immunity, in some way or another, there's both MPs and judges. But as for the way in which, if a decision is made today, Parliament will act, I have just sounded. If the Order on the Order of Work is adopted, over a month of national deputies of more than 150 national deputies, as well as the President of Ukraine, who are the exclusive subjects of the right of legislative initiative to amend the Constitution, may make certain amendments and proposals to this bill and to part of this bill. But if this decision is to be taken, it must also apply to the warnings made by the Constitutional Court, but not exclusively. So this is a question of the rights of the drafters. The other thing is that Parliament may normally disagree with them when it considers these amendments to be normal amendments to the corresponding second reading regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u42	Thank you, please. Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, take your place. The floor is given to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u43	Dear fellow national MPs. We held long consultations with both members of the committee, and with Ruslan Petrovich, we agree with the decisions proposed by the committee, and we propose to put to the vote, and the approval of the proposal, and the decision of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u44	Thank you. Please sign up for the factions and groups. It's been three minutes since the factions and groups, the MPs, we've arranged 30 minutes for a discussion, two minutes for the deputies, you'll sign up, you'll make a statement to the MPs. Please, Oleg Light Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues of the national MPs, are finally the Ukrainian Parliament, although slowly, but moving towards the goal. More than 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens support the abolition of parliamentary immunity. Why? Because this is the survival of the feudal past, because the vast majority of people, 23 years in the election, went to Parliament for one thing, for integrity and lobbying their own business interests. That is why we live in the same city. Because for 23 years the vast majority of those in power are laughing, ask Lesik Long for what he came to Parliament for? Ask people like Lesick Long, what do they go to parliament for? Of course, he will tell you that he has come to Parliament to protect people’s interests. Show me how you're protecting me? Go to his Web site in the Supreme Council, see where are laws designed to protect people? They're gone. Where's the show? Where are the MPs' appeals? Where are the elections? They're gone. But we see the lobbying of business, but we see the avoidance of criminal responsibility under the mandate of the national MP. We see attempts to falsify the elections in 205 districts, so another Lesic Long Friend comes in -- Sergey Berizenko to the parliament walls to further lobby his interests. That's enough going to parliament, enough going there for the MP's in touch, and lobbying for his own interests. We must go to Parliament to protect the country’s interests and people’s interests, not to rob it. Therefore, the Radical Party faction supports the bill to abolish parliamentary immunity. Why don't I talk about the judge? Because there is no real abolition of judicial integrity. It was just then that the Supreme Council agreed to bring judges to justice, now it is proposed that the High Council of Justice give. We believe that the inviolability must be completely removed from the deputies, from the judges, from the President of Ukraine. And that is why we insist that Parliament immediately, together with the abolition of parliamentary immunity, review the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry and the Law on the Procedure for the impeachment of the President of Ukraine. Tell me, who in the country today can hold a person in office accountable? Nobody. To do this, we need to collect the site to get Yanukovich out. Yes, the law would have to be in place in Ukraine. The law must be one for all: for the deputies, for the judges and for the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u46	National Deputy Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u47	Good afternoon. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. The People's Front Party has promised to remove the MP's inviolability and inviolability of the judges. Yesterday, the People's Front faction decided to take a stand on the unanimous unanimous vote today for removing the MP's inviolability. The promises given to humans must be fulfilled. Now I want to address those who have doubts. Friends, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid to be like ordinary Ukrainian citizens. You're MPs, where today, thank God, there are 302 votes of the coalition in this House. You can change the situation. You can make sure that you, both unprotected and citizens of Ukraine, are not protected, but feel confident before an honest prosecutor and an honest judge. It's in your hands, it's your duty. Instead of hiding behind inviolability, change laws so that citizens of our country can live safely in a country where the rule of law will prevail. So today I call for the removal of the parliamentary immunity, this rudimentary system, this authoritarian regime of Yanukovic, to fulfill the promise to Ukrainian citizens -- and to continue to work, to work on those reforms that will ensure the rule of law for every citizen, not just the national MP. Let's get to work! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u48	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the "Block of Petra Prashenko" faction fully supports the bill initiated by the President to remove the parliamentary and judicial integrity. Today we have to resolve this issue so that the Supreme Council does not turn into a place where criminals hide from the law, so that the Supreme Council does not turn into a mockery when we spend hours, instead of deciding what matters to the country, we discuss for hours whether to remove or not, and at that time a corrupter, a villain, or even a murderer, can leave the territory of Ukraine as it is every time, because today the mechanism of not depriving a deputy or a judge of its inviolability is in place, and today a mechanism that allows every villain who is a judge or a deputy to leave the country simply to leave the country if the law enforcement authorities finally decide to take him by his throat. It is urgent to change this situation if we want our fight against corruption to end not only by running away from Moscow or from Crimea to tell them how good they are, but to finally put them in jail and answer for what they did. And so I urge all my colleagues to support this Presidential bill, to take the first very important step towards this, to continue in the fall not to seek excuses for why we don't vote, but finally to lift the parliamentary and judicial integrity, to fulfill the promises we made to people and to look people in the eye, and then there will be a real fight against corruption, and not imitation, as, unfortunately, we often see today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u50	Please, Dmitri Spanov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u51	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. Today, it is very important that it be observed in the adoption of our basic law of the Constitution, and that the Rules of our Parliament are respected. In this Regulation, we must at least remember that we do not in any case have the right to give preliminary approval for the amendment of the Constitution. I would also like to point out that, apart from the comments made before the Constitutional Court, there were seven separate opinions of judges that were actually summarized in the following. In fact, not only would the term of parliamentary integrity be abolished, but also any parliamentary immunity. The MP's aim is to ensure the safety of the people's MP from unlawful interference with his activities, to ensure the smooth and effective exercise of his duties and to ensure the proper functioning of Parliament. The parliamentary immunity, the generally recognized legal standard of modern parliamentaryism, is ineffective, and in some cases the unconvincing use of constitutional guarantees under mechanisms to bring the people's deputies to justice cannot be the basis for the rejection of the institution of parliamentary immunity, which is in full conformity with world standards. I would also like to remind you that, at the 103rd plenary meeting of the Venice Commission, which is a guide for all of us, it has been said and accepted that in a political system with a vulnerable democracy such as Ukraine, where judicial corruption is widespread, the complete lifting of integrity can be dangerous for the functioning and autonomy of parliamentaryism. The current state of supreme law in Ukraine has not yet allowed for the total abolition of parliamentary integrity. The Commission therefore recommends that other mechanisms be put in place to prevent interference with Parliament and at the same time facilitate the fight against corruption. Our faction has had a long debate on this issue today and has taken a decision on the basis of the conclusion of the Venice Commission, as well as the individual opinions of the Constitutional Court not to vote in favour of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u52	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u53	Since 1996, since the adoption of the Constitution that is in force today, parliamentary integrity has been removed. Parliaments of all vocations, all parties that were in parliament, all public figures who then became MPs, all take away the parliamentary integrity. And so if our Parliament can raise this stand and actually remove the integrity, this Parliament will go into history. Truly positive, perhaps for the first time since all the convenings of parliaments. So I urge everyone to vote for this. And our faction, our team will certainly be in favour. At the same time, however, it is not necessary to mislead society because these changes to the Constitution only remove immunity from the MPs, and this is not enough, unfortunately. Now it's declared that they're removing the inviolability from the judges, well, that's not true. These changes to the Constitution of Judges do not remove inviolability; they are passed on to the Higher Council of Justice, which remains fully engaged in the higher administrations of the state. This means that the judges will remain completely irresponsible and will not be equal before the law. At the same time, with respect to the President of Ukraine, I believe that the President himself must initiate the introduction of the President's Law on impeachment to the Supreme Council. Because only the President, who has a responsibility to the country so that dictators and tyrants will never appear again, must place all the fuses on his own and insist on the adoption of the Law on impeachment as in the supreme system of the President’s responsibility to the people. Because revolutions, bloody in particular, cannot constantly address the issue of non-effective power and its removal. That's why we're taking the first step today, but this is just the first step. Well, we also have to think with you about the selectiveness of justice. Because the removal of immunity from the MPs cannot turn into the grass of opponents. And so that the tradition may not return, when the law is for enemies, but for friends is all. Therefore, the removal of immunity is a great responsibility to the power structures of society, not to establish political grassland, political divisions, and political persecution. But despite all the threats, the integrity of the MPs needs to be recorded. Let's finally vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u54	Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Help faction has made a calm, balanced and confident decision. We will vote in favour of withdrawing the MP's immunity. It's just a normal decision. A lot of people are waiting for him. After we take off the touch, we'll expect the oligarchs and bandits to do so that those who have to sit and work here will sit in prison. Because they're going to buy this corrupt court system and this corrupt power system. But we will and we urge you to vote for it because we have to be examples. An example of a lack of fear of quality changes. I'm Ukrainian and Ukrainian, and I just want my country's president to be an example to me. I was an example of my father’s respect and love for the country. And I ask the President of Ukraine to be that example. Introduce the Law on impeachment to Parliament. To make it. To show that we are not afraid of you, to show that we are willing to make sacrifices for the success of this nation. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. You know, in Lviv just a few minutes, it's like two explosions in the district police department. It's the third, three explosions in the last month. I propose to the council of the coalition today for the second hour, Mr. Head, to invite the council of the coalition to urgently, immediately, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board of Directors and the Attorney General. There is a complete counter-revolution in the country. We need to see concrete actions on our part. Deference is like death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u56	Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In fact, the issue of integrity, it has already had an ossification of these and many years of each of the Supreme Councils that are being gathered, the convocation begins with the subject of the removal of inviolability. But the MP's Rebirth Party team has studied this issue very carefully. And unfortunately, we don't see today's text of amendments to the Constitution being in line with European practice, which clearly states that MPs have no responsibility for expressing themselves in the Supreme Council, for political activity, and vice versa is the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which is very critical of this law. So we will only be prepared to support the removal of intactities in the context of meeting the recommendations of the Venice Commission. And also recently, it has been announced that the President will make a change to the Constitution in part of the change in the justice system, and we believe that this issue will have to be considered jointly and only then to conclude how and when to accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, please take six minutes, two minutes to speak with the national deputies. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Please sign up with the national MPs. Please sign in. Oleg Stepanovich Musei, please, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? As for the inviolability, certainly and clearly, we are obliged to remove the MP’s inviolability. Because it wasn't just a requirement of society, it was a requirement and a basic requirement of Maidan, where we all advocated freedom and freedom. But I would like to draw your attention to the second point -- this is what's called judicial immunity and the so-called removal of judicial immunity. You know what an organ of the Supreme Council of Justice is and, in fact, by this application, we're increasing judicial integrity. The greatest claim of society right now to the judges and the limit they create is not found in any normal, sober thinking person at all. You see these constant corruption scandals and schemes that the judiciary is working on. Instead, today the Supreme Council has the right to record the judges ’ inviolability. And we have witnessed and voted to remove this inviolability, and the judges continue to work. You see, if the Supreme Council of Justice, as the body to which the judges themselves belong, and this is essentially the organ of professional self-government of the judges themselves, do you not believe that they will change themselves outside Parliament and remove their judicial integrity? I think we need to take this very seriously and go back to the formulation and leave right behind the Supreme Council as a parliamentary-presidential republic, I stress in word the parliamentary-presidential republic's right to remove the judicial inviolability and not to give any advisory body, including professional bodies, which clearly this judicial inviolability never to be removed, the right to withdraw judicial inviolability. So I urge you to seriously consider abolishing the judicial, so-called abolition of judicial immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u60	Please, Olga Cervakova, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I have been in Parliament for many years, which is true, not in this place, but from above, I have observed very often the competition of absurdity that took place during the consideration of the question of parliamentary integrity. What are you talking about? The Presidential faction usually introduces a bill on the elimination of despondency. Then the opposition faction introduces a bill on the elimination of the President's inviolability and starts a competition, and screams about what some say is that we're only going to vote for the removal of the MP, and they say only for the removal of the President's. This all leads to the talk of the subject and it all leads to 200 votes on the board, and the Supreme Council spreads its hands and says, "Well, it didn't work." What we saw today from the representative of Oleg Lalach. He says, let's introduce such an innovative idea, eliminate the President's in touch. You know what this will do, that Parliament will cling to the maple, and that nothing will happen, that the idea of intactity will again be blurred and mangled. And I want to encourage our distinguished coalition partners. If you are taking the first and sure step to bury the idea of undoing parliamentary integrity, say so. And if you vote for it and want to vote, don't hide, please, Oleg Valeriyovich, with the desire to undo the inviolability of everyone, and cancel with yourself first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u62	Rudik Sergey Jakovitch, please, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u63	Dear Ukrainian people! National MP Sergey Rudik, elected in the bold constituency, promised his voters in 2012 when he supported Freedom and the All-Ukrainian Union Fatherland, he promised his voters in 2014 as self-regulatory that if the issue of the removal of parliamentary immunity was raised, he would vote in favour. That's why when I'm a national MP, I'm going to vote in favour, because I promised the residents 82 places in the Cherkas region. Of course, as with all those present in this room, I would like the law to be one for all, and for the judges, and for the President, and for many, many other officials who have the security status of inviolability in our country. Of course, we look forward to the introduction of a bill on the President's impeachment and the abolition of the real judicial integrity that my colleagues have spoken many times. It's unnatural when the right to withdraw is taken away from Parliament or taken away from Parliament and we want to pass on to a much smaller circle of people called today's High Council of Justice. It's much easier to manipulate fewer people to achieve their own results. Finally, colleagues, I would like to say what happened to my colleague Oleg Valeriovich Láška, whom I supported last time while speaking from the rostrum. At the time, it was about revoking the vote or supporting the vote on foreign exchange loans. Oleg Valeriyovich, and this is Berezenko, who's in the 205th district, wants to avoid criminal responsibility. Didn't you get the characters mixed up sometimes? Thank you for your attention! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Victor Chumak, one minute and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, no doubt, the institution of parliamentary responsibility, or generally the Institute of Immunities of Deputies, Judges and the President, needs a serious correction. Undoubtedly, the absolute impunity that exists in this institution requires very serious changes. I would like to say that we take very carefully these changes and these conclusions, which are given in the special thoughts of the judges of the Constitutional Court and in the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission, which should form the basis for our further work on this bill. But I want to pay attention to all of you right now: Dear friends, we need to get rid of the dust. Because we are looking at essentially now, Volodymyr Borisovich, we are now looking at essentially not Project 1776, but Order 1776/P2 on further consideration of the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution. And according to the position of the committee, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u66	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u67	According to the committee's position, we can get to it not sooner than after August 25th of the current year. Dear friends, think what you're voting for!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please insist on the reptiles of Oleg Lazko, because his last name, his first name, his father's name, is called, please, a minute of replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u69	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want the whole country to hear it again: the Radical Party faction is voting in favour of the draft Act amending the Constitution to abolish parliamentary immunity. At the same time, when our esteemed fellow MPs from the friendly faction tell us that these are the Challenges of Light on the President's impeachment procedure, I want to remind -- not the Challenges of Light -- that was Midan's requirement, people laid down, so hundreds of people put their lives in order for the authorities to be responsible for making the power transparent. So that the person who holds the presidential office, if he commits crimes, not through the field, but through the legal procedure of impeachment. Enough of the dead, enough of the playgrounds! Everyone from the President, from the MP, from the judge, from the policeman, from the tax collector and from the clerk must be accountable by law. And if we have to get the President out of here, we have to put hundreds of lives in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u70	Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Dear colleagues, as part of our consideration of the draft law, we are now considering a regulation on how to deal with it, this is a procedure for considering the draft law. So please, Your Honor, Ruslan Petrovich, the final word. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And after Ruslan Petrovich's closing statement, I will put to the vote a draft decree (registration 1776/P2). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! What's that again for the stenographer? This is indeed the case with Decree 1776/P2 on further work on a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of national MPs and judges). I repeat the lines agreed upon by the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council proposes to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the bill by 15 August 2015. The subject of the right to make such amendments is the President of Ukraine and at least 150 national deputies. The work of the Committees of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure, Budget, Prevention of Corruption and European Integration will be discussed by August 25th and will be submitted to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice after August 25th, after receiving appropriate proposals to process them and arrange for them as national deputies of Ukraine in accordance with the Rules. Finally, to review the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the inviolability of national deputies and judges) under registration number 1776 at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after August 25, 2015. Thank you. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u72	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, the draft Order (registration number 1776/P2) introduced by the Committee of the Supreme Council's Order on Rights, announced by Ruslan Petrovich, on dates, by Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on further work on a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian MPs and judges, as amended, which he announced during the report by the head of the Committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please vote on the entire draft Decree 1776 on immunity. Colleagues, please take your seats! Is everyone ready to vote? Wait a minute, wait a minute! Take your seats, this is an extremely responsible vote. In fact, like every vote we make here. So 1776/P2 with Ruslan Petrovich Knazević's rights, please vote in full. Vote. Please vote. [[11:37:20]] For 283 We took another procedural step to remove the parliamentary immunity. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on, dear friends. Let us turn to the day - to - day issues identified by the Conciliation Board’s decision, namely, the consideration of issues in the first reading. And the first question before you is registration number 2567: draft Service Act and Service Centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. He will report to Zguladze-Gluxmann Ekaterina, the First Deputy Minister of the Interior. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. But you know that we always discuss as much as necessary. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support. [[11:38:32]] For 197 Decision taken. First Deputy Minister Eka Zguladze, please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u73	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. After an emotional morning like this, it's hard for me to talk about boring things like the MREO and the fight against corruption. But the emotional morning wasn't just in Parliament. I don't know if you heard or not, in Lviv today, there were, like, two explosions. Two lemons, two victims. We're lucky they're both alive, two precincts came to work, and they crashed. What does this have to do with the MREO reform? I don't think so. But on the other hand, to improve the situation in the country, to survive all that we have been going through in recent days, I think we will be able to do it if we take one step at a time to solve the small and major problems associated with the state order and the fight against corruption. That's what this has to do with the MREO problem. Therefore, the law that we ask for today is very important. What do we suggest? We suggest we name things by our names and say that there is a problem and that this problem will not go away on its own, and this problem will not go away if we appoint new people, and this problem will not go away if we just hide the MREA. A conceptual approach is needed. There is already one very important solution in the country. That all administrative services should go through decentralization. We support this approach, but once again, in terms of reality, we say that today. We may not be ready to do this anywhere, so we need a transitional phase. Our law, according to the version we propose, will only work for two years, after two years it will cease to work. And again, you have to decide what you will do with all the services that are coming in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u74	Please finish. Don't limit your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u75	transfer them to the site or find another way out. One key point in the reform of services that we offer is that we will try to delegate not only power but also those responsible for decision-making. Let the administrators have a name, have a signature and a stamp, and respond to any decisions they make on the ground. That's the answer to the fight against corruption. I'm sorry, I understand we don't have much time, but I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, please report. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u77	I'm so sorry. We request a reduced procedure to consider the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, head of the profile committee, secretary of the committee on law enforcement, Anton Gerashchenko. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u79	All right, am I gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u80	Anton Gerashchenko, please. Anton Heratchenko, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u81	Honourable deputies, distinguished presiding, respected Ukrainian people! The Service Services and Service Centres Act is a revolution in the provision of car transformation services to Ukrainian citizens, the acquisition of driving rights, the receipt of certificates provided by the internal affairs authorities. This law for the first time in the history of Ukraine sets out a clear list of services provided by the internal affairs authorities. The Act provides a clear deadline for such services. For example, the car will be redesigned in 24 hours, without corruption, and the driver's license will be obtained in 24 hours. This is really a revolution on these issues. It also states that the internal affairs authorities are given two years to normalize these processes. Since 2018, service centres that provide car transformation services, weapons clearance will be handed over to local authorities. This law is therefore consistent with the general policy of the State on decentralization, improvement of the quality of services to citizens and administrative services. I ask all factions, both coalitions and opposition, of the extra-fractional deputies all to vote this law together on first reading. It will indeed change people's attitude to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u82	Thank you, colleagues. Is there a need for 2 for, 2 for against? None. Vote? It is, isn't it? Please sign up, 2 for, 2 for against. Sign up, 2 goes for, 2 goes against. If you have any suggestions, please. Oxana Jurinec National MP, Peter Dusty Block. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! I am sad and ashamed that we have put some standards into practice in this room when, for example, the police are financed by private companies. And then we're talking about fighting corruption? And we don't know who's paying for the music. Sadly, such a law is no exception. Why? I will not stop at the expense of this law when, for example, access to driving licenses requires permission and payment when a reduced procedure is to be paid, or when a supplementary document is required, and the Administrative Services Act requires an exhaustive list of documents. A philosophical problem. I'm not against the territorial centers. Create local centers, provide services on site. The question is in another plane. Whether we consider registration of cars, or registration of weapons as a public function, as a public function or a commercial function, or whether we commercialize these functions. In the first version of the law there was a direct statement that it was a commercial essentially function. Now the government has tried to hide, but in fact nothing has changed. Because the establishment of the territorial centres does not take place under the procedure for the creation of organs, as provided by legislation, when the proposal is made by the minister, but is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but the list of services to be provided by the service centres is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the government thinks that some services should be commercialized, I don't deny it. For example, hand over the registration of cars to stores. And let the stores have access to the database, register cars. But give everyone the right to do it, not create monopolistic structures. If you feel that other services should be devoted to commercial structures, give them back. Don't create monopolized commercial structures at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm proposing the idea of a district center to support it. And that doesn't need law, you need to create territorial centers. And the bill I'm proposing a friendly rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u84	Jacenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! This law has long been worked on by the committee. Well, of course there's nothing perfect. But this is much better than the system that exists today. Shadow economy and bribes and stuff. And I'll remind you that we've already passed the Police Act with you, another on internal affairs. So the language must go that we must complete the reform. So we ask that the Rebirth Group all support this law as one that is as progressive and actually improves the situation. Well, that's the first reading. And you can always make your proposals for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u86	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! This law is indeed imperfect. He's not perfect. But he's been improving the situation hundreds of times. He must remove from the corrupt shadow the services provided by so - called MRES. Sell medical advice, which has become an entire business. Look, we've got supplies for both drug addicts and alcoholics. Then we wonder why these people have rights and so forth. So, as the First Deputy Minister said, two years from now, we will move on to another stage in this kingdom. And now we need to support this law in the first reading, work on the committee. And we need to change the corruption system, and we need to destroy the corruption system that we have in the MREV. We started reforming the militia. Yeah, it's perfect. Yeah, not the perfect police. But it's better to break your head 30 times than to live in that shit. For the National Police? Yuri Vitaliyovich, please remember in the transcript as you called for a loan vote. And the Radical Party faction voted in favour of the National Police Act! You're confused, you have a memory. Drink less! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u88	Colleagues, I think it's dangerous to get close to Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk, let him go. That's it, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, calm down. All right, colleagues. That's it, that's it. We've calmed down, it's all very dangerous. Take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your understanding, dear colleagues. We need to be restrained in relation to each other, just restrained. Colleagues, restrained. All right, thank you to the faction leaders, the National Deputies for their restraint. We're continuing our work, reviewing the laws on the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I have an offer, colleagues, I'd love to. I'd be happy to make a change, friends who would allow special people to be brought into the hall, devices that would deal with these situations. If you had the will to do that, negative 226 would do it. You don't have to create conflicts. All of it. We're working on it. Abdullin. National Deputy Abdullin, Fatherland faction. Sergey Sobolev. Sit tight, don't get hot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u89	My dear colleagues, I imagine that these reforms would take place in Georgia at a time like this. If from the beginning of the second year, the IMF, the tax office, were to start with billions and billions of other services, and then all of this was brought to the only service centers. We have been in the country for the past three years, including your Fatherland, Mr. Head, on Winnitzkin, the establishment of 660 service centers. You want to create 60 more separate ones? You know, this reminds me of the beginning of the 1990s, when you started to create separate employment centers instead of taking it as a school base and on the basis of a vocational school to create employment centers. Tens of billions of dollars were thrown out, officials who did not know what to do in the first years, set up a computer database, put it in a marble, and then dropped off, and what would be the occupation of a training center. We have 660 single-service centers. We need to translate 4 specific operations to provide services to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please move them to these service centers, make all the conditions within what is in Winnice, Zaporozhye, Kiev, and other cities, and do not have to breed new corruption pits. Our proposal is to return this bill to the authors of the legislative initiative, if you need any changes, make changes to the law that regulates the operation of the only service centres and then put it in the hall. The MPs will support this and we won't throw away millions and millions of money that will go first to create 2 years of separate centers, then to transfer everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u90	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u91	We're transferring the entire human base to the only centers. So our proposal is all to be made within the single service centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Self-Help, please. Kostenko, please, National Deputy, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u93	Friends, if we follow this concept, when we say we need some single centers, then there will be no reform at all. About 120 million dollars a year is lost by the state. That's funny, because practically after Eka implements this reform, I think the sums will be completely different for the state. I'm asking a lot of questions, and the whole Self-Help thing is asking me to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. People's deputy Dehtyarchuk. Please, People's Deputy Dehtyarchuk, The Peter Dust Block. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to and support the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Sobolev, regarding the inadequacy of creating additional centres for the provision of these services. The point is that today we have a working group working on a bill to amend some of the legislative acts to extend the powers of local self-government authorities and optimize the provision of administrative services. It is in this law that a step is taken to foresee certain additional administrative services that will be provided through existing administrative services centers. I think that this bill will be able to be adopted, processed and, in general, released in the future for a new list of administrative services. We are against MREs in the corrupt sense that they are today, but there is no need to produce new centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we must pay due respects because we have been working on this bill, including involving experts. But what is the point of this bill? Within a few years, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is building a public system of administrative services in this area. There's a lot of corruption. I understand that someone might be against it. But there's a perfectly normal way of doing it. Next, second position. Article 8(2): "Great service services can provide through the centre of administrative services in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that these 660 created will be able to provide these services, according to a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and where they are not created, this work will be systematized and corruption destroyed is the second position. And the third position is that when this system of public, quality work of new quality is built, then these functions will automatically, since 2018, be passed on to local governments in general, but by now, local self-government authorities should be ready to do so. And that's what my colleague Sergey Sobolev said about the fact that there are areas where there is already readiness and Kabmin will hand it over, I don't think there will be any questions. And there are those who aren't ready, so there's nowhere to go, and the system has to be rebuilt, that's the whole point. So, dear fellows, this is the first reading, and I think there are more positive things here than there are any ideas. And let's now take our seats so that this project in the first reading can vote, support, continue to work on the second reading to make it the right anti-corruption public law. Because what we have today at MREO is just a horror! And here we have to give full political and legislative support to the IMF in order to carry out this appropriate reform. Therefore, please take your seats for your first reading vote, colleagues, and I would like to emphasize that the draft Law (registration number 2567), the draft Law on Service Services and Service Centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has been introduced to your vote in the first reading. As reported by the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Eka Zguladze, we discussed and discussed specific articles that are positive enough to eliminate corruption in this area. Therefore, honourable fellow believers are offered to accept it as a basis, as discussed in the first reading, and to continue preparing qualitatively for the second reading. I'm asking you to support this. Ready to vote? Ready. On the basis of 2567, please vote. [[11:58:32]] For-198 Dear colleagues, once again. Dear friends, once again, listen very carefully, I see that there are proposals to vote again. But look, we're voting in the first reading, the result of the first reading is that we should give the ministry the opportunity to reform. If we don't make any decisions, nothing will change? There'll be old MREO, there'll be old battles and everything. Dear colleagues, there are several proposals for a return that have not yet been able to vote Mustafa Najem is proposing a return to 2567, so let's not break this law. Guys, let's not break this law. Let's take a minute from the factions, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, from factions per minute to motives, please. One minute from the factions. Then the People's Front, and we'll leave. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, the bill was not considered at the faction today. I ask you to put this to the vote again, and I ask you to support the faction in the first reading in order to enable the committee's experts to work on the amendments to this bill. Obviously, the faction has a lot of questions about norm-making and to the very mechanism proposed in the law, but in order for the reform to move, it must be adopted in the first reading. And to give the committee a chance, believe me, there are experts there to work it out to the optimum level. Please re-vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka to come back to this issue. Colleagues, I think we need to be more bold is a professional deputy who cares about this issue, we will work together, we will get understanding we will vote in the second reading, we will not find, so that will be the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. But I urge action. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, please support the offer by Yuri Lucenka, friends, for the return to 2567 – draft Law on Service Services and Service Centres of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine. Ready? Let's go back, please support the return of Yuri Lucenka to this issue. I ask all factions to support this bill in the first reading. On your return, please support, colleagues. Let's support the return. [[12:01:21]] For 243 Thank you, colleagues, for understanding. There's a proposal: based on the results of the first reading of this bill. Please support the distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies, 2567 on a basis. Create a group by factions, work together. Please vote. Based on the base. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[12:01:48]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Then we go to the second reading, and we work on it. There will be a fine law that will defeat corruption in MREV. Next, the next question of the agenda. Dear colleagues, thank you for understanding. 2568: Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the payment of services provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs). Report to the First Deputy Minister of Eka Zguladze. I'd like to make a suggestion to support a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. It's a review of the reduced procedure, my friends. [[12:02:34]] For-183 Please, Eka Zgladze.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u99	Thank you, distinguished deputies, for the trust and vote of our first bill on this subject. I want to respond very briefly to the comments that have been made. Most of them are actually wrong: nothing is new. On the contrary, even existing centres will be reduced to a minimum, so that no millions and billions of dollars are invested in infrastructure or are yet to be invested. On the contrary, we will save a very large part of Ukraine's budget. The bill I am presenting to you now is a continuation of the reform of service services. It is proposed to amend articles 29 and 64 of the Budget Code. The point of what? Today, local budgets are partly financed by the MYREO revenue. To ensure that these revenues do not go away and that local budgets, on the other hand, will in the future receive even more, we suggest that at least 10 per cent of the revenues from the local budget should go to local budgets for the revenues of service services provided by the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u100	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Committee on Budgetary Questions, Constantine Ischeikin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the amended government bill number 2568. And in my conclusion, let me draw your attention to the following. The bill does not correspond to a coalition agreement on decentralization of the provision of basic administrative services. Secondly, implementation of the bill will lead to lower revenues from local budgets, which is about 180 million dollars a year. Thirdly, the bill does not provide specific directions for the purpose of directing the corresponding pay. The basic bill 2567 only provides for the act of the law from 16th to 2018, but Bill 2568 does not limit its operation at the time. The Ministry of Finance considers that consideration of the bill is possible in the case of finding sources to cover the loss of local budgets and the development of the direction of use of the funds of the special fund. So it's the conclusion of the discussion. The Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2568 to be adopted on the basis of its drafting, taking into account the proposals made by the legislators of the legislative initiative, and to submit a second reading only after the adoption of the 2567 bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for 2 "for", 2 "against"? It's a derivative, isn't it? Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, this bill is the logical conclusion of the project that has now been voted on before this. What are we talking about? He's putting all the dots over the "and." To date, the revenue from the provision of administrative services is included in the State Budget General Fund. And that's logical, because it's the state's performance of its functions. For that, sorry, you're elected, people pay taxes for that. What does this law foretell? Predicts to be converted to payment mode. 90 percent of it is part of the special fund. What does a special fund mean? What they earned went to the service, to the performance of certain functions. Then I'll ask you one more question. Friends, if we think that such a function as registering cars and weapons is not state-owned, let's eliminate the Ministry of Internal Affairs and commercialize this function! Guys, I'm going to that thinking part of Parliament: you can't make that kind of decision. And everyone who cares about the fate of the country. Sobolev said, "There are centers, put them in place." You don't need the law to do that. And this is about what the previous government did -- transforming government structures into commercial structures. We have no right to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u104	Thank you, colleagues. Are there any others? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up: two for, two against. Two for, two against. Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I will vote and support this bill. We don't have so many ministries where at least some changes have begun. We have a personal trust in Mrs. Eka Zguladze, and that the reforms she's doing are in our favor. So we've already seen that there won't be any extra expenses, it's going to be in the same premises. So let's say there's no burden on the Supreme Council that we're stopping the reforms, the initiatives of the government, because we've lived to be taken care of by ministers. For example, yesterday Mr. Petrenko took care of the Supreme Council. Let's not let the IMF take care of us, and let's not have any questions behind us. Because then, for three months, they're going to say that the Supreme Council doesn't have any reform in the IMF. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u106	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u107	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." The "Radical Party" faction will vote in favour of this bill. And he calls on his colleagues in the hall to support him in the same way. You and I are all demanding reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We authorized the people, Minister Habakkuk, the First Deputy Minister of Ek Zguladze, to carry out these reforms. When they're reforming, when they're making bills aimed at implementing their reforms, they come to the hall we tell them we don't support you. On the one hand, we're going out, everywhere we're putting Mrs. Eka Zguladze as an example in carrying out reforms, on the other hand she's going out to the Parliamentary Court asking you to support, give her the opportunity to implement these reforms, you're refusing to vote for them. The doctors, Mr. Beresuk, will say it's called some kind of cognitive dissonance, you know? If we trust them, if we put Mrs. Zguladze as an example in implementing reforms, where logic is when you don't support the bills she's aspiring for. This is the same as the esteemed colleague Yuri Lucenko, on the parliamentary stand last Friday, advocates for the inclusion in the day’s vote for the Law on the Restructuring of Monetary Credits. After his parliament heard, including the faction of the "Radical Party" and supported our colleague's unanimous appeal, he turns out to be a bad law. Why, then, are you aggrieved if this is a bad law? Let's go with you good people, let's go down to the ground. People are looking forward to a real reform of internal affairs. Mrs. Zguladze and Mr. Habakkuk are working on these reforms. Let's give them the opportunity to make these reforms and then ask them about the outcome of these reforms. Otherwise they will say that we simply did not give them the opportunity to implement these reforms. I think we should give them these opportunities. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u108	Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised this bill was presented by a man we trust. Because you can't say half, Mrs. First Deputy Minister of Interior! In this law, more than 10 percent of the local budgets are budgeted. 90 percent of the funds received are redistributed and channelled, not into the State budget, but into the State budget. So essentially the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So let's be honest, there are not reforms, there are simulations of reforms. There is a desire to obtain financial flows to the Ministry of Internal Affairs instead of doing something! And let's not substitute simple concepts. You know, when we have explosions in Lviv, when we have what's going on in Mukacheva, a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs comes out and asks essentially to redistribute in the state budget the funds that the Ukrainian state will get from the functions that the Ukrainian state gives to its citizens. I think the First Deputy Minister of Justice should be a little embarrassed. Indeed, there is great trust. But this trust loan doesn't have to be sprayed on such simple and ordinary things, you know, like manipulation. Have you been asked clearly what this law is about? You said only 10 percent, and you forgot to tell me where 90 percent goes. 90 percent goes to the IMF. This is wrong! This law should be returned to the authors for further processing. We have to figure out that all the costs, 90 percent go into the general budget fund as it was, and 10 percent goes into the local budgets, as you suggest. And then we can talk about some changes that have taken place. And in the way that this law is now, it's just a simple imitation and no more of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u110	Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u112	Mustafa Najem, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, you know, it's very funny to watch people who have been in power for many years now try to embarrass someone who's trying to do something. If you don't like something, you've had the opportunity to make changes to the bill, come to the committee, propose changes. If you haven't succeeded, it's a democracy procedure. You haven't made any changes. Mr. Vlasenko, you're all right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now there's an opportunity, this law will point out that we have a huge number of firms that make money on all these services, and they're not finally going to get a share. That's what the former minister got, and that's what people get now. Now let's do this point. That's the first one. Second. This law is a logical continuation of what we have adopted before that. Either we're crazy, and we're not adopting this law, but then let's admit it and get out of here, or we're passing two laws in pairs. And the last thing I wanted to say. For the time being, we are considering this law, according to our information, Mr. Shokin is putting pressure on prosecutors Saquarelidze and Mr. Kasco in the prosecution case, which have been taken with the police on bribes. Mr. Shokin took these cases himself. And now there's pressure on all the investigators, on the prosecutor who's in charge, and he's on his way to court on this case. I ask that you, Mr. Groissman, and everyone who sits in this room please let us keep an eye on this case. We have a chance to do something for once in our lives, not to make a mistake. Thank you. And let's invite Shockin, he should still be with us today. Let him tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u114	Thank you. It is a matter of honour to support honest prosecutors in their fight against corrupt prosecutors. So I think we're going to do everything we can to keep nobody from falling in love. It was Vlasenko's last name. Replica, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u115	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. You know, it's very interesting to hear lessons from young faces who haven't even read the Rules. The bill was introduced in the first reading. No committee meetings, no amendments, of course. That's the first one. Secondly, the "Fatherland" faction did not vote in favour of the previous law, and then it would not vote in favour of the law. That's why we're completely consistent. And this has already happened, you know, these attempts have been made for the administration of Mikola Janovich Azarov, to concentrate all the money in the Ministry of Internal Affairs for such services. Let's repeat everything that Mikola Janovich Azarov did and then tell them that we are young, new faces who have come to reform Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you? We can, in principle, call any question different, including now the question that we're considering. We've taken the question of creating a system, we're still taking the question of how to distribute the costs for these services. It's estimated that 90 percent will go into a special fund and this fund, the State Special Fund, will be used to build this system. Then, dear friends, 10 percent give up, go to the local level. The second question. When will the system be built? What does legislation say? That all of this will be handed over to local authorities with a percentage of the cost of providing these services. So this decision is the result of the first decision and it's absolutely logical to accumulate a resource. And the third question. Now if this resource is dispersed and sent to the general budget, there's not going to be a single copy of this system, the quality servers, the data protection, the creation of electronic jobs, the creation of normal, transparent conditions, and so on, it's all under threat. So I would suggest, to the honourable people's deputies, to be consistent and to accept 2568 as a result of the first reading, on the basis of that, this is the first reading, on the basis of that, to have another discussion on the committees and then to make the appropriate decision. And I think there's going to be an opportunity to support this decision in a second reading, because it's perfectly logical. Is such an offer accepted? Please, Your Honor, take your seats (project registration number 2568), this is the draft law on the introduction of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for payment) (for the payment of services provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs). Listen, let's support the reformers, better do it, maybe someone will make a mistake, but do it in order to change the situation. Dear colleagues, please 2568 as a basis. Ready to vote? Ready? Please, 2568, colleagues, on the ground. Please vote and please support 2568. Please be supportive. Vote! This is a derivative of 2567, please support. [[12:18:40]] For 224 Well, it's obviously two votes. National Deputy Museiczuk and Semenchenko For return, colleagues, offer. Two deputies failed to vote, please. Please be careful. Be careful, let's support it. Please come back, 2568. On your way back, my friends. To the return! Please vote for the return. Please vote for the return. 2568, please. [[12:19:19:19]] For 226 Colleagues, each voice is now extremely important and responsible. Let's support the base of 2568. But you can see that each voice is very important. Ready to vote? Please support everyone, colleagues. 2568, based. Let's support the first deputy minister in charge of these reforms. So she's sitting there, and she's going to answer to us for the result. Please vote. Based on 2568, please support. Please be supportive. [[12:20:12]] For 231 Thank you. Friends, we have to be braver at last. If they make mistakes, we will invite them to account. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, a draft Law has been introduced for your consideration. — Registration No. 2982. Draft Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (Registration No. 2982). There is a proposal for the Galasyuk People's Deputy to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support this proposal for consideration of the reduced procedure. This is a review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. We still have a lot of questions to consider, so I'm asking you to keep up this intense pace. [[12:21:11]] For 155 Decision taken. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I present to you today a package of four bills, the first of which we are currently considering is the systematic, profound reform of Ukraine's registration services. This reform, which is based on this package of bills, is simultaneously a reform of the registration service, deregulation, and it's also a real decentralization that we're starting. Fellow citizens, these bills are designed to simplify procedures for the state registration of immovable property, business, and other objects. This is about destroying the monopolized vertical that exists today in the Cabinet of Ministers and moving these services to their places. Transfer administrative services directly to the month: local communities, executive bodies, administrations, notaries and so on. I want to thank Minister Petrenko for the work of the Ministry of Justice, which has been tremendous in the work of this reform. I would like to thank all the authors of these bills from all the factions of the coalition, including Oleg Valerijovich Ljashka, Igor Sergiyovich Aleksiev, Krivoshei, Hirschfeld, Hmil, Rosenblatt, Kononenko, Greens, Kutov, Krivenko, Gopko, Efimov, Pavelko, Dubininin, Granovsky, Knyazevitch, Yvchenko, Kulichenko, Omelchenko, Storoguk. Dear colleagues, the adoption of these bills will allow additional resources to be made available to local budgets in over 500 million dollars, allowing transparent electronic registers to be launched at the same time – the fight against corruption, it's simultaneously overcoming the queues, it's overcoming monopolization, because wherever this registration can be done. This is important, and this is exactly what our country wants: a transparent destruction of the bureaucratic apparatus. What's more, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u118	Please be sure to report. You want to report four laws as a package now? Please report all four laws. Ten minutes, report every two or two minutes. Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the main advantages of these laws are that we're starting a real decentralization, because decentralization is not easy, it's not about depriving ourselves of responsibility. Decentralisation is when we transfer to places of authority, responsibility and resources. So this package of bills allows this to be done in a very important sector, in the public registration sector of goods and business, and also to transfer the corresponding budgets to local budgets. Dear colleagues, we have to take this bold step today because, in fact, we can count on one hand, this is a reform of higher education, this is a reform of the police and others. Today, we take a very important historic step. What if we talk about concrete gains about allowing these bills to be made? According to the Ministry of Justice and its territorial authorities, only the legal and methodological security of the State, the functions themselves are transferred – a court case is instituted if there are any problems. Moreover, as I have said, the subjective composition of those who provide such services is expanding. This is predicted to be done by notaries in places, directly by local executive authorities. And it's stated in the first reading that this is done by accredited banks, but there's the agreement of the copyright team to rule out this rule. Of course, these bills will be further developed into second readings and banks will be excluded as the subject of administrative services. At the same time, the granting of such a right to notaries will allow it to create nearly seven thousand additional points of service and registration services. Honorary colleagues, among the innovations proposed by these bills, are expected to establish that information is available in the State Register of Rights as a subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u121	is open both by subject and by object. This is about, on the one hand, the substantial economy of the state budget, on the other hand, the absence of additional bureaucratic barriers. So, honourable colleagues, I stress the purpose of adopting these bills today in the first reading on the basis of their proper work by the four committees of profile for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I propose you support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. Please report. The chairman of the committee, Yuri Solovay, is the deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u123	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues and present! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy reviewed the draft Law on the National Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (Registration No. 2982), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Láškom and others. The bill proposes, inter alia, a new concept of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, reform of organizational and legal principles and active mechanisms for the registration of rights, including delegation to local self-government bodies, which is very important, authorizations for the provision of services in this area, as well as increased availability of administrative services in the field of public registration of property rights, through the granting of additional powers to notaries and the involvement in the registration of immovable property rights and their burden on state contractors and banking institutions. As a result of the anti-corruption analysis of the draft legal act in accordance with the decision of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. In turn, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 17 June decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Láškom and others, to be adopted on first reading and on a basis. Please support the appropriate decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. I suggest we discuss, they are all related, I suggest we discuss them, all these bills, and then we go to the vote, and we have the right number of deputies in the room. Making Decisions? Okay? 2982. Please, 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, write it down, in order of discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u125	Tribute, please. The trident will be speaking from Peter Dusty's Block?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u126	I have a definite question for "Peter Dusty Block." It's written down by Trigubenko for the performance, who's going to perform from "The Block. Then Timoshenko. Dove, please turn on the pigeon microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u127	Vladislav Doub, "Block of Petra Poshenko", 197th constituency of Cherkaschina. Dear colleagues, there is another bill in the Supreme Council that regulates this issue, namely 2929, which regulates the registration of real estate rights, particularly with regard to the correct registration of notary actions. There's a bill that we're looking at, but we're not looking at our bill. So the bill also foresees that such actions will also apply to banks that banks can import to perform such administrative services. So I think it would be correct for us to also consider Bill 2929, which regulates which is the subject of knowing the same questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u128	Thank you. Tymoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u129	Please give the floor to Deputy Alexei, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The People's Front MPs will unanimously support these bills. We are currently considering 2982, but these projects are organically related — 2981, 2983, and 2984. And I urge all my colleagues to support all these projects in a package. I want to thank the government and the Ministry of Justice for the tremendous amount of work that has been done, the quality bills that have been drafted, which undermine the monopoly on the provision of administrative services, both for business registration and for the registration of real estate in this area. For the first time in history, the Ministry of Justice actually places its services in place. In doing so, we can provide a general trend that is now being implemented by the government in the decentralization of administrative services. And what's important is that, along with the service, we're transferring to places and financial resources. The total cost of these bills is about 1 billion dollars. We can transfer 1 billion dollars to the local budgets in full to do one or the other services. The implementation of these initiatives will clearly facilitate the provision of administrative services. And most importantly, it will completely destroy corruption in this area. Please support everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Shipko Andry Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u132	Culinic Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u133	Kulinich, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u134	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinic, Rebirth Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. The ideas found in Bill 2982 are absolutely correct and faithful. I personally get a huge number of appeals from citizens about the issue of registration. It's this project that solves a whole bunch of these problems. First. The extension of registration facilities offers the transfer of registration functions to district and city councils. Now they will be able to determine for themselves the number of registrars needed for the area or the city. Because now the 3-5 people who work in the area actually can't handle the huge amount of work, but from here the queues and the complexity for people. Secondly, there is really a point today to extend the rights of notaries as state registries and give them the opportunity to register all real estate rights. I would like to remind you that my draft Law 0944, which began to act as a law in March, has already shown its effectiveness. He gave notaries the right to register land leases for agricultural purposes. According to the Minist, more than 100,000 such contracts are registered a month, or the mechanism works successfully. So when we vote in favour of this bill, we can significantly reduce the queues to state registries. The progressive norm of the project is the priority of the cadastral information in law-enforcement documents. A lot of people are asking me about the refusal of registration because once the boundaries of the land are set in kind, its area in terms of withdrawal from the cadastre is different from that of the held act. And in order to register, people have to go to court again. The bill solves this very problem. The MP's rebirth party will vote in favour of the bill. And he asks Parliamentary colleagues to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u136	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! In fact, these bills are particularly 2981, 2982, 84, they are very important. But I want to pay attention to the following. We need to be clear when it comes to local governments, not just large cities. What about small cities? They're 267. What about villages and villages? Today, we grant the right for district government authorities to actually do favors and provide services in administrative centres. But in Law 2982, I want to point out, 100 percent of the cost of providing these services goes to the State Budget, they don't stay in the area. Instead, in cities of regional importance or district centers where these services are provided, 100 percent of the funds remain in cities. What does that mean? This means an uneven redistribution of funds. So I'm asking, and we're going to make changes, that where the services are provided, there's money left. Even if this district government is going to provide funds today, the funds should stay in the area! Of course, when changes to the Constitution are made, the circuit councils will be formed. Then, of course, the performances will be given. So far, there are no such possibilities, so the district government will temporarily provide funds. So, colleagues, I want you and I to notice that. So that the distribution of funds is correct. Although Law 2982, Minister, states that 100 percent of the funds go to the state. Let's leave it in places. I'll show you this standard. Thank you. And let's support the bill eighty-one, two and four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u137	The minister points out that local budgets are costing. And I give the word to Levchenk Yuri, one minute. And then Saul.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u138	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, this series of laws that are currently being discussed have a lot of positiveness in them. However, there is one huge negative that we insist that we vote for in the second reading. So far, in the first reading, we're going to vote. But banks have no right to register. Banks have already shown private banks how they work with the country's financial system, how they influence the currency exchange rate and how they influence the economy at all. It is totally unacceptable to trust banks to register. And in the second reading, we will only vote if this rule is excluded in the final versions of these bills. I'd like to say two words about the past that we accepted. I wasn't given a word before, I'm sorry. On the commercialization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Unfortunately, our distinguished television and radio audience, the Supreme Council, has just voted in favour of the commercialization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Which will now function simply as a private structure that will earn you even more than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u139	Please, Solovay. And then there was the Radical Party faction, and then there was the Light Minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u140	Yuri Solovay. Dear colleagues! I just want to notice one moment. That as of today the authorities of local self-government, in whose territory any property rights are committed, are completely deprived of the right to register these rights. And they don't know what's going on in villages, cities, areas or areas. These bills are a real decentralization of Ukrainian power. We grant the right and the ability of local authorities to register and access this information on their own. As for two observations of his colleague Ichchenk about where the money was going. All the costs, and this was the position and the Economic Policy Committee, will remain in the local budgets. As far as I'm concerned. No, we will correct that between the first and the second readings. And second position, respectable colleagues regarding banks. This is the agreed position of all members of the Economic Policy Committee. Of course, banks have no right to be authorized to register property rights. And these things are fixed, this is the common position of all members of the committee. These things will be corrected between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u141	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u142	Colleagues, that's why these bills are very important in the direction of decentralization of Ukrainian power to give local self-government authorities real powers to register things. And that's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u143	Please, one minute, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. And then to the Minister of Justice, the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u144	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you, first of all, to a colleague. Add a sound to the microphone, please. First of all, to colleagues from the Peter Prashenko faction, to colleagues from the Radical Party faction. Honorable fellow MPs, the emotions in this room are going to go bad, and I understand why. Each of us realizes our historical responsibility to the country and to the time we live in. Sometimes we cross a line, sometimes we give in to emotions instead of holding them back. I want to urge you to hold back your emotions. No matter how you treat someone, it's important which law you adopt and whether you change the fate of the country. That's why we were posted here by people, not to call or fight or anything. Because as the leader of the Radical Party faction, I would like to apologize to my colleague from Svetlana Zaleschuk's Block of Petra Prashenko, who unfortunately had a covert incident last Friday in "Rizzny". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u145	I'm asking you to finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u146	I ask all fellow MPs from the Radical Party faction and from other factions joining the coalition to remember why people sent us here. Not to beat each other and show us who is stronger or more beautiful, but to be together, regardless of our differences, on our differing views, on our opposition to remember one thing — the fate of the country! When it comes to the fate of the country, put your emotions in one place, do what people need, and do what they need.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u147	Thank you. Before I give you my word, I want to support this speech and say, dear colleagues, you have a huge responsibility and today we have very important laws. The election law 2423, which we have to go and look at, and I also have a huge request for everyone, emotions to put down and understand, on each of us a huge responsibility to work in a system, to work together and to put an end to all the conflicts that are in the room. And please, three minutes, Justice Minister Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u148	Dear national deputies, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people, our Supreme Council adopts very many laws, but it is very rare that laws are passed that apply to virtually every Ukrainian. These four laws that are currently being considered are the very case where the Supreme Council makes decisions that apply to virtually every Ukrainian. Twenty - one million Ukrainians go to government authorities every year for services and services, and they have a lot of negatives: queues, bribery, corruption, bureaucracy. These four laws actually make a comprehensive reform and a new approach for every Ukrainian on the part of a civil servant. By these laws, the Ministry of Justice, as its first office, gives up its powers and gives these powers along with money to the local authorities for the first time in the history of Ukraine. In fact, the previous ministers were merely exerting themselves to make a corrupt component. By these laws, we do the most simplified services for Ukrainians -- real estate registration, business -- for obtaining relevant documents about ourselves. By these laws, we hand over one billion dollars to the local authorities, think about it. Small cities, areas, communities that need this money. By these laws, we are finally doing demonopolization and de-bureaucratization of those services. These laws will actually have a bearing on each of you as national deputies, because this is a change in the Ukrainian attitude toward the state. You are also representatives of the State and the State. I ask you very much to vote these laws as a basis. There have been many comments about some technical inaccuracies, and we will correct them to the second reading. Let's do this complex decentralization reform. It's not going to be a statement, it's going to be a real step towards decentralization, and it's going to simplify the life of an ordinary Ukrainian and improve his attitude towards the state. I also want to say that these laws are prepared by all coalition factions. And I ask all the deputies, regardless of their political views, whether in opposition or in power, to vote in favour of these laws. Because these laws apply to Ukrainian citizens and their attitude toward the state and improve the attitude of the State toward the Ukrainian. Please back up! And finally. We have talked a lot about what decentralization should be done and the Local Elections Act will be adopted today. I propose that this vote will give us real powers, real responsibility and real money to improve services for ordinary Ukrainians. So that a simple Ukrainian could register his business for 1 hour, his apartment, his house, so that a simple Ukrainian wouldn't pay 500 dollars for moving in line, so that a simple Ukrainian via online services would get quality services without leaving the apartment. Our model, it takes into account the best international experience. Our model is Ukrainian. It's not Georgian, it's not European, it's Ukrainian and it's designed to make Ukrainians feel real reforms. Please support these bills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're looking at a package of four bills and the authors have asked us to discuss all four of them, the whole package, and then we've voted on each of them. Is there any support for this position? There's support in the hall. And I'd like to invite you now. The request is that we consider the reduced procedure of 2983. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, and I was an offer earlier, let's discuss all four laws now, and then let's go to the vote. Okay? Yes, we'll consider each one of you in a reduced procedure and then we'll all vote on the procedure. Let's, in the order of discussion 2,983 is being introduced under a reduced procedure, please support. [[General Discussion]] [[12:47:40]] For-129 Colleagues, please concentrate again. There's a report. Have you considered all four laws? All right, colleagues, we're about to vote. But, dear colleagues, there is a position today, I ask everyone to calm down, absolutely human and normal: just now in the MP's corps, there's an insult to the address of our colleague, whom I personally respect, and I think that most of the audience in the room are also treating him with respect -- it's Yuri Lucenko. Right now, people's deputies, members of the MP's corps are asking the question that the people's MP Musijczuk should misbehave, said a perfectly normal apology to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, no questions asked. Colleagues, no questions asked, it's perfectly normal human relations once, and he'll say his word in answer, believe me, he's a worthy man. Please, Igor, apologize for not being restrained, and Yuri Vitaliyovich will also, I think, appreciate the faction, and the hall will appreciate and the MPs will appreciate it. It's a normal absolute thing. No one and no one offers aggressiveness. Let's do it this way, the official position of the Peter Prashenko bloc, Alexander Tretlyakov, deputy director of the faction, one minute, please. Colleagues, there have to be a valid statement, today one said another, tomorrow. Then they'll start with each other in general. Let's stop this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u151	Our faction believes that there must be an apology before Yuri Lucenko, who is the leader of our faction. Therefore, any words addressed to our leader are fully perceived by the faction. Therefore, please, especially if you take the history of the political Jury Lucenka, at least it is inappropriate when a person has fought regimes so much, sat in prison and listened to public insults. So our position is simple enough just a correctional word: "that wasn't restrained" and our faction continues to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u152	Please, I think one minute Igor Mosiychuk. From the women of the Ukrainian Parliament, Irina Heratchenko. All women support the word. Let's take it from the women of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u153	You know, honourable colleagues, I want to say that, really, one faction allows itself here to play decibels we're not in the opera theater to shout during performances so that all the time there are some fights that aren't entirely worthy of being said. And that's why we want to look -- last of all, I want to say from, really, the women of the Ukrainian Parliament, that we're ashamed to be in the session hall when there's a scream, a lamentation, images, absolutely unworthy, the mattresses sound. It's not the Russian Duma, it's the Ukrainian Parliament! And here either the national language, or the languages of the European Union, or the Russian, but the literary language, Pushkin, Dostoyevsky, and Gogol. And we have a proposal from the women of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we ask Mr. Oleg Láška to support it: one, today, a meeting to remove Mr. Mosiyczuk from the session hall to stop the images, the homage, the mattresses in the session room. And I hope that's the same for all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u154	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u155	And on that we're going to stop turning the session room into some rude, totally Circus place. Thank you. And I ask you to put it from the BPT faction and from the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament it is for the vote and to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u156	Colleagues, let's move this into a peaceful way and not play with emotion right now. There's a fraction of the other side. Oleg Lazko. I beg you, it's very restrictive, Oleg Valeriyovich. So let's not get any worse, but let's figure out how to get out of this situation right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Unfortunately, you, Vladimir Borisovich, were not in the hall when I went out to this rostrum, and I urged my fellow MPs to hold back their emotions. I apologized from this high parliamentary rostrum for the incidents that were. You, dear fellows, want no excuses. You want to humiliate us and drown us. You want to break the Electoral Act, you want to provoke the faction to leave the coalition. That's why you want us to apologize from morning to night. So I want to tell you, let's go from apology to legal work. Let us adopt laws. Who has not heard the Minister of Justice: the laws that are now at stake are the historical laws to combat corruption in the field of registration. Your attempt to break the review of these laws is that you will be responsible for them. That's why I'm addressing my colleague and the leader of the Lucenka faction. Yuri Vitaliyovich, you and I shook hands, we agreed that I would apologize on behalf of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u158	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u161	I did this deal, I went to the rostrum in conflict with the faction and apologized, because it's not personal ambitions or insults that matter to me, that's what matters to me. And I'm asking women who respect Ukrainian women to keep women's emotions to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u162	Colleagues, I want to. You don't have to keep women in Parliament here, I think they can still teach everyone here to keep their emotions to themselves. Colleagues, I propose, I suggest, dear friends, I suggest that we ask this question, if we must, please, I am ready to gather all the parties and find the mechanisms for a proper settlement, I propose that we continue the work I propose that we find the right way out of this situation, if we need to, I will hand over the rights of the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, we now advise on how to get out of this situation properly. I think the insult to Yuri Vitaliovich's address was totally undeserving. So, guys, let's keep working and maybe within the regulatory committee, let's find a way out of this situation. Do you have a deal? Colleagues, this question needs to be discussed, we'll discuss it. Okay? All right, guys? Let's find a discussion right now. Yuri Vitaliovich, okay? Who? Yuri Vitaliyovich, word to you. Lucenko, Yuri Lucenko, word. Yuri Lucenko, word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u163	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I represent the faction that came here as a reform provider, and we're going to do it in any atmosphere. And in any situation, it's a task for which people have delegated us. In doing so, of course, the legislation will come out better, if there is a logic and a healthy discussion here, we are in discussions, including hot discussions. We understand a lot about politics, but I really support my colleague, Irina Heratschenko. There are MPs who have crossed the line between fever and something else, and that's not the case in Parliament. It's part of the state. Remember the Constitution, followed by the Supreme Council is the only body representing the people of Ukraine. If he is reprimanded, this Parliament, by its actions, expressions, conduct, matternals, after all, actions, physical violence, is unacceptable. I think the answer is very simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u165	I'm grateful to my colleague Oleg Laska for his apology. And we don't have the task of apologizing to accept a lot of excuses. Just don't make it the only way out. Just stop this atmosphere of behavior. It's not a whisper. Yes, there's a dome here, but it's the Supreme Council. But let's start working again from this point on. I call on my colleagues in the U.S.P. to uphold the necessary law. But at the same time, I urge Oleg Easy to hold a meeting of his faction. I'm ready to come to her, so that we can finally move from resisting to normal work. We are willing to communicate as colleagues and make a wise decision. We have to vote now. We are called on to do so by national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich, and colleagues. I think that the moment has come when we have to change the culture of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, because sometimes we do things here that are just embarrassing. And we realize that this is unfair, for most of them are totally honest people who respect each other. And we have to continue to introduce this culture. Friends, I would ask that we be restrained, we were professional, and we were always responsible. Are we going to vote for draft laws? Thank you. Colleagues, we've discussed the draft of Law 2982 with you. This is a bill that deals with administrative services. In fact, this package of laws has been made by many national deputies. Many people's deputies of all factions. An expert environment was involved here, experts who know about it. And I want to say, from what this bill was introduced to Parliament and from what it is now, they've changed by 100 percent. I am grateful to all the people who voted, who were preparing for this consideration. So we have to accept and finally decentralize services, transfer them to places, it's an absolutely European practice. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, a draft Act on the State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, registration number 2982, has been introduced. Please support this bill based on the outcome of the first reading. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. Based on the base. It's actually decentralization of the state registration of property rights. 2982 based on the first reading. That's the offer I made. [[12:59:31]] For 269 Thank you, my friends, it's a very good law. 2983, draft Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. 2983, also on the ground. Please support, it's a package. 2983, please support, Your Honor. This is our collective work with you. [[13:00:01]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2984, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to extend the powers of local self-government authorities and optimize the provision of administrative services. It's also a very important law. Please, on the ground. Please vote. 2984. 2984 in first reading as a basis. [[13:00:33]] For-286 Decision taken. And derivative 2981, draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on financial security for the provision of administrative services to local governments. 2981 based. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:01:01]] For 303 Thank you, colleagues, for your understanding. Me, a few words. Remember, when the minister of justice was Alexander Lavrinovich, a totally corrupt vertical registration service was created, then the city service was built, and so on. We destroyed the building, we passed it on, we decentralized it to places -- a corrupt scheme. And this is the first step towards destroying a corrupt vertical centralized of these issues that we have just voted on. Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues! You are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to simplify the regulation of the production and circulation of beer. We have, uh, respectable colleagues, 2971, 2971-1, 2971-d. Report to the deputy. One government officer is 2971. He's reporting to Makeyev's Deputy Finance Minister. Then the national MP, Olena Kondratjuk. And the report of Nina Petrovna's head of the Tax and Customs Committee. There is a proposal to consider all these bills in a simplified manner. Three bills that are alternative. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:02:18]] For-160. 160, decision taken. Please. Deputy Finance Minister Makeyev Olena Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u167	Can you talk? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u168	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on simplifying the regulation of the production and circulation of beer (registration number 2971). The need for his acceptance is due to the fact that on July 1, 2015, beer was taken to alcoholic beverages. Thus, all restrictions on alcoholic beverages are placed on beer. The project proposes to remove unnecessary regulation, taking into account the differences between these two types of beverages. The draft law provides for the cancellation of the brewing industry of certification of production, certification and certification of conformity of production, the licensing of production, the regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of minimum wholesale and retail prices, the state regulation of regulation of the regulation of production losses, the enforcement of the production into a single national register, the only alcoholic beverages required for the labelling of products, and the clarification of the concept of "sponsorship". However, there are still changes, and there are still standards that provide for the budget. That is, licensing wholesale trade -- 500,000 dollars per year and retail -- 8,000 dollars per cashier per year. The revenue from licensing for half a year 2015 will be 69 million dollars. The adoption of the bill will create conditions for deregulation of the beer industry and improvement of the investment climate in the country. It will not have a negative impact on the health of the population, since the restrictions on consumption and the sale of beer remain unchanged. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u169	Thank you. 2971 under reduced procedure. Please, 2971-1. Helen Constantine, please. Let's talk, then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u170	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Our bill is not entirely alternative. We support the government in its initiatives to correct its mistakes and we stand for simplifying the lives of manufacturers. So we urge all those who intend to support these proposals to the government to vote in favour of our bill. At the same time, by supporting proposals from the industry and the government, we invite the people's deputies to also hear from society and citizens who are often, often, heavily surrounded by the sale of beer and alcohol, even in bread shops. And vote not only for simplifying permits for manufacturers, but also for banning beer at the end: the sale of beer, except non-alcoholic, alcoholic, and low-alcoholic beverages in the area of autofuel stations, and at a distance of less than 100 meters from public education facilities, in commercial premises of less than 20 square meters. We suggest direct banning nighttime from 22 p.m. to 7 p.m. the sale of beer, alcoholic beverages, low - alcoholic beverages, wine, except for a drink for consumption in the city, that is, in restaurants, cafes, bars, and other institutions that have the status of catering subjects. It is a step that bans the sale of beer and soft drinks, and it has long been necessary to do so on a day near school. Let's do it today. At the same time, the bill also harmonizes Ukrainian media legislation with European advertising and beer sponsorship. In view of the fact that the European Convention on Transboundary Television is valid for Ukraine, there are milder warnings about the promotion of alcoholic beverages, and many EU countries predict it. on the terms and conditions of advertising light alcohol compared to other strong alcoholic beverages is offered in part by advertising and sponsoring on television and by the radio to extend to beer only the restrictions currently in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u171	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u172	What comes directly out of the requirements of article 15 of the European Convention on Transboundary Television. In view of the foregoing, we propose to establish a ban on advertising for entertainment, competitions, lottery, and prize games. We also prohibit beer advertising by means of external and internal advertising. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, allow me to convey the position of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the Government Draft Law (registration number 2971) and its alternative draft amending certain laws of Ukraine on the simplification of the regulation of the production and circulation of beer, the improvement of certain provisions on the sale of beer and other alcoholic beverages by the number 2971-1 provided by a group of Ukrainian national deputies and worked on the committee in accordance with part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the production and circulation of beer. I will not repeat the basis laid down in these bills only, taking into account the position of part two of article 110 of the Supreme Council Rules on the basis of bills 2971 and 2971-1, the Committee prepared a revised draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the production and circulation of beer, which we have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine – 2971-d. It's about the contents of the bill. Regulatory issues remain entirely out of the Ukrainian Government Act on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. As we confirm the decision made earlier on June 3, we suggest that we leave it in the same order. And a revision of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, number 2971-1, developed by a group of national deputies of the Professional Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, is included in part of the Advertising Act. In general, the amended bill does not invalidate the licence for wholesale and retail beer trade and the mandatory availability of control-cassette devices. The project does not exclude beer from alcoholics.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u175	Please don't limit your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u176	The project does not exclude beer from alcoholic beverages or remove existing restrictions on the consumption and sale of beer. It's about information from individual deputies. The bill is practically technical and aimed at correcting the imperfections of December tax reform. Failure to accept this bill can lead to a halt in the production and sale of beer, which, in addition to the negative effects, will lead to substantial losses in budget revenues. During this time, as we've been looking at these bills, there's been a huge number of references from mini-warfares, 160 of them in Ukraine, with production of 200 hectolitres per month. So, after consulting the members of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, I propose, under the transcript, the proposed Bill 2971-d to supplement with the following paragraph: "Part five, complete with a new paragraph five with the following content: "The annual fee for wholesale licenses for small beer producers, the volume of their own production and the sale of which does not exceed 3,000 hectolitres per year, to install 30,000 bracelets." - that's what we're saying, that these brewers are 300,000 dollars, that's all revenue per year, so 500 thousand dollars a license can't be paid for production. Please consider now that we still have to save those 160 small breweries and the 2,000 jobs that work for them. Therefore, with this in mind, I ask that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended by the Committee in accordance with part two of article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the production and circulation of beer, taking into account the paragraph's transcription, be adopted on the basis and as a whole as the Law of Ukraine. Please support the position of the committee. In addition, we ask that the Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct a technical and legal review of the law that we have adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u177	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Please sign two for, two against. Shinkovic Andrey, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, there is a proposal to speed up the decision - making process, since in fact the whole field is waiting for us to take a decisive step. And I'm proposing 2971d as a base, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u179	Please, Victoria Vojticka, Self-help. Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Ostrich Tetjan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction supports both the government bill and the committee's deregulation bill, we always advocate deregulation, and de-bureaucratization of all processes. That's why we don't have any warnings in this part. The only thing we have to think about is, really, those little brewers who can't pay 500,000 dollars for a wholesale license. In addition, the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union (Article 105) states that any licensing fee should be justified and proportionate to the value of the licensing procedures indicated. Therefore, the imposition of fiscal burdens on beer trade because of the cost of a license to conduct the business in question distorts competition for the benefit of large companies and the monopolization of the market. So we need to correct this situation and accept without reservation the amendment that the committee head has made: the cost of a license of 30,000 bracelets for small brewers. But the Self-Help faction makes a warning about making any changes to the Advertising Act. We need to think first of the health of our nation and of what lobbyists are doing in this law, in the Advertising Act, such activities as the distribution of goods related to beer in places of sale, beer consumption, and sponsorship using signs for goods and services. What does that mean? That they will be widely distributed along with beer cups, flashes, and umbrellas marked with the corresponding products. We ask you to exclude all these changes from the bill, and in that case we are ready to fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u182	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyr Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, we are with you today to witness how a poorly drafted bill today has caused such a situation in one of the fields. Unthinkable. Where did the numbers come from? Unreasonable, not counted. And so, unfortunately, even in an adopted bill that needs to be voted on to at least support those who work for Ukraine's budget today, we have with you the introduction of a wholesale license for the sale of beer of 500,000. I get it, for big supermarkets, it's a serious problem, and for a small town, it's going to be very expensive. Entering the excise stamp. I don't know any country in Europe that has an excise mark on beer. But we fully support the understanding of advertising control. Our faction on this issue supports Self-Help. It's just about sponsoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Korchinska. A radical party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u185	Oksana Korczynska, the faction of Oleg's Radical Party. Our faction does not support any of the bills since they are lobby laws, our children's lives are more expensive. Like any profit from beer companies. I remind my respectable colleagues that our worldwide statistics show that we have child alcoholism, children from 11 to 15 years of age are second only to the Czech Republic. In fact, we have a child’s five - year - old alcoholism in the first place. I ask you not to betray the health of children, the health of the nation is more important than the profits of beer companies. We do not support these bills, we will refrain and ask our colleagues to support us. Once again, the health of children and the health of the nation is more important than any income.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor. One minute Michael Golovko, then Oleg Berezuk, then Olga Cervakov. Also, listen, so many speakers. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u187	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I also speak on behalf of the interfractional union for the sober future of the deputies who are here in the hall, who still care and think about the health of our nation. I'm not going to repeat myself, because today we're taking disgraceful first place in per capita drinking and what teenage alcoholism is practically leading our country around the world is a disgrace. Our task, as nationalists, is to finally think about protecting the health of our society, because if we destroy our nation and alcohol destroys it, it will lead to degradation and extinction. We should not only think about the profits of beer companies but also about the future of our young people. So what I'd like to say is that in this law, all three of these projects are a major threat. We're throwing beer out of those bills like alcohol, and it's now available, and it can be sold and spilled anywhere, and we can drink in public transport, in parks, in other public places. Unlike the strong alcohols to which this is forbidden. And beer is thus used for young people’s accessibility and ease of use. And that's why it's big.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u188	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u189	Society, I wanted to say that you still have to put the health of the nation or the business of beer companies on a scale of scale. Remember, though, that the government’s economy suffers at least 50 dollars from 1 bracelet of alcohol earning. These are the costs of treating the sick, and this is also a drug problem in a state of alcohol abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barresuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament! We ask you to divide the peas with cabbage. The first part of this law on deregulation is absolutely necessary and right for the economy and for production. The second part about advertising is imperfect. The Self-Help faction suggests dividing those two parts. This first one is to accept, and the second one about advertising, to work, because we can't completely ban advertising. You have to have civilized forms of advertising, these processes. They are now uncivilized in Ukraine. You all see an ad about the Cossack Council. Is it worthy of Ukrainian television or Ukrainian honor? So let's, we support manufacturers and jobs, and we translate advertising into a separate law that we work together. It's also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u192	Thank you. I ask you to prepare the committee to express your position. Please, People's Deputy Shipko, then Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u193	Dear National Deputies! Sad statistics: By the age of 13, half of our country’s children had already tried beer. As a child doctor by profession, I want to say that for the first time it's affecting our kidneys, our heart, and most importantly, it's striking the reproductive function of our children. Dear colleagues, sad statistics: our country has fifth place in the world in alcohol use. The per capita population is 15.6 liters. With regard to data from the World Health Organization, more than 8 liters [8 L] of alcohol use leads to the destruction of the nation. Think about it. Think about it, every national MP. As a national deputy, as a professional child doctor, and as a father of three, I take a firm stand against those laws that support the flow of alcoholic beverages, more precisely low - alcohol products. Support me, against these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u194	Thank you. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block. Then Olga Červakova. And finally, it's going to be the head of the profiling committee of Julian Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, you know we're all talking in the hall right now, as if we don't know that 32 large and medium-sized factories have been working, working, and working, and there's not going to be a drop in the number of beers for today. Today, we should thank the committee that prepared the bill in a good way. And we need to support the committee's drafting of the bill. Dear colleagues, let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Olga Cervakova. Please prepare for the vote. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u197	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to make a point of correcting the speculations that have arisen in this session hall regarding the advertising part of this bill. I now hold in my hand a card containing false information. For example, it is written that this law allows sponsorship and.. and advertising at places of sale. That's not true. The law makes it clear that there is a ban on advertising information on entertainment, competitions, lottery games, and games, prizes, if the right to participate in such activities is to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages. In addition, the law makes it clear that 5 percent of the circulation should be placed on social advertising to explain the harm of alcoholic beverages. Moreover, these standards are clearly prescribed in line with the requirements of the European Convention on Transboundary Television. So it's advertising and it's a sponsor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u198	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u199	Advertising and sponsorship with restrictions. That means you can't get advertising to consume, you can't get famous people to advertise these appropriate drinks, you can't get these kinds of drinks out there, you can't get calls like, "Buy five slices, pick up some more," or something like that. So, dear colleagues, our coalition partners, I'd very much like to ask you to read this law carefully, not buy these speculative cards, and please vote for it. Because it's going to be socially beneficial, and that's what we have to do in all of Europe, beer advertising is allowed with the limitations that we and our colleagues have foreseen in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I'll give you a minute from the factions to understand what position? Please, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, offer? There was a proposal to vote on the basis and in general. That is, to deviate from the standard procedure, from the two deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u201	2971-d on the basis and in general is proposed with an amendment that I read about small brewery -- on the basis and in general without any exceptions to advertising in the version that is 2971-d. Chervakova has just explained to you that the restrictions on sponsoring and advertising you require are taken into account. But it is not possible to clean up the sponsorship altogether, which involves a very large activity and a social project.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, make sure everyone understands. Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u203	Look, are you talking about allowing sponsorship? What about the football league's sponsorship? You all realize that there is no more manufacturer to sponsor such measures as beer producers. It's a complex world practice, it's happening all over Europe. You've been bending your stick a lot, so let's get the directives in place faster than we have in Europe in the country where we're going to lead? We've got it. The same is true of coming into the budget!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I have two official warnings about voting on the basis and in general. So now I'm going to put the bill of 2971-d on the committee's proposal as a basis. I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, language goes, voting as a basis, not as a whole, as a basis. There are many contradictions in the hall, and we feel it. So please make it clear that this is a quality law, not a lobbying miracle. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, take your seats, please! 2971-d based, with the committee's proposals on the basis. Please vote. Based on the base. On the ground, please. Based on the base. [[13:27:40]] For 211 Colleagues, 211. Please, from factions per minute. Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, there is a completely labor proposal: to accept the deregulation part, as prescribed in the government law, with the addition of Jujanina, and to delay the advertising part, to process. It's not what you say. And then we'll adopt the law in favor of industry. Now think about how it will benefit the health of the nation, not just to think about industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u206	Oleg Romanovich, we need to make clear which articles to leave out. Please, the Radical Party faction. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u207	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, 10 minutes ago you demanded that our faction apologize to you. And I propose that those who vote in favour of lobbyist laws apologize to parents who become alcoholic children at the age of 10. And I suggest you apologize to retirees who have 15 percent of their pension, you don't have a chance to consider this law, but you're looking at lobbyist laws to support brewery. Instead of looking at social laws, giving people a pension, allowing women 55 years of age to retire, allowing them to lower tariffs, you don't look at them, because you don't have time to do that, but to lobby beer producers, please, the half-parliament of the South does that. Vladimir Borisovich, I am ashamed of you and I am ashamed of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u208	Oleg Valeriyovich, I didn't say I was ashamed of you sometimes. I'm not ashamed of myself. Please, Arjev Volodymyr, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, it is very good to take care of children, but above all, they must be cared for by parents and nurtured so that they do not drink. But let's leave the beautiful words that were now heard about, from the so-called moral advocates, a little bit to the side and look at the facts that are there. If we do not accept this bill today, this bill does not become law, what changes? The small brewery, which boils mostly quality beer for adults and there control is serious, is now without the right to exist at all, and those who cook the surrogate will sell as much as they sold beer. That's it. So let's support the medium-sized business that was the foundation of Maidan and the basis for our reforms, and we're not going to jump into populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u210	We do not know what lobbyism is. The adoption of this law is not an adoption. So I take it from Vladimir Arya’s words that not adopting this law is a lobbyism, because beer brewers will boil beer and the little ones will just disappear. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, Vladimir Ariev's proposal to return to the consideration of this draft law, 2971-d. We will continue to be determined about making decisions on this matter. The return of 2971 B.C.E. Volodymyr Ariev’s offer. Colleagues ready to vote for the return? Please vote for the return of 2971-d. To return. Please vote for the return. [[13:32:11]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] 1 MP didn't vote in Self-Help, 1 in the People's Front, 2 in the House, 3 in the House of Peter Prashenko. Oleg Musei, for the return? Please, Oleg Musei, offer. Listen, calm down, calm down. For the return, the offer of the National MP Musia. Please come back. Ready to vote for the return? Please. With regard to the return of consideration of the matter. If I were you, I'd vote for the return, I'd take it as a basis, I'd send it to the committee, and work there, figure out what's lobbying, what's non-libic. Will you please get ready? Don't make any noise! Don't make any noise. That's much better. For the return of 2971-d. Last time, for the return. To return. Please identify yourself. To return. [[13:33:44]] For 228 Now for the base, 2971-d. And we're sending it to the committee, and there, continue to debate on live air. And we'll figure out who the lobbyist is. 2971-d based, dot. Just on the ground. Continue to debate the committee meetings on a live basis and prove what you have to do. 2971-d based. Please be sure about the vote. [[13:34:23]] For 230 Friends! Now they've sent it to the committee. Now all of you gather to make the right decision so that those who do their own work can develop without creating problems for young people. Colleagues, one minute. There are a number of questions. Guys, there are a number of questions. An important question. I have received 5 factions on the vote, on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region. It's actually signed by all factions, 5, coalitions, but all the factions and groups have given their representatives. There is a perfectly agreed solution. And I'm introducing a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region, namely, the heads of the Palamarczuk Commission of the "Block of Peter Prashenko", members of the commission: Puckana "Block of Peter Poshenko"; Antonistak "Block of Peter Poshenko"; Kaplin "Block of Peter Poshenko"; Teteruk "The People's Front"; Heratchenko "The People's Front"; Lunchenko "The People's Front"; Papiev "The Opposition Block"; Shepherd "The Self-Help"; Kostenko "The Self-Help"; Melniczuka I.S. – "Radical Party" faction; Moseschuk I.V.; The Great Faction of the Fatherland; and from the "Will of the People" group Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich, as well as Dmitri Svetash from the "Rebirth" group. Please prepare, Your Honor, for the vote of the Creation Order, for the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region. Please, Your Honor, in the order in which the factions and members of the factions were given, the groups are asked to vote on the draft decision as a whole. Please. Please vote on the draft Decision establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region. [[13:36:58]] For 287 Dear colleagues! There's an offer, there's an offer, they're going to work tomorrow, they're going to give us information, we're going to do it. I also ask tomorrow to bring in national deputies from factions, five factions of the coalition, and to join everyone in investigating the Mayan crime. We have to vote tomorrow on the first question of creating this TSC. And I would also ask the TSC, which has just been created, and the head of Palamarchuk is honored to join the non-fractional deputies if they want to take a job on this committee, please, there's no objection here. Another position, distinguished fellow national MPs. You and I have voted on the bill on the House of Accounts. There was a number of disagreements. In accordance with article 131 of the Rules, I have the right to make a proposal for a committee to deal with disagreements. I mean, I think maybe Ivan Krulko, a minute of disagreement? Is everyone in agreement with the disagreement? One minute, please, Ivan Krulko. Ready to vote? These are technical inconsistencies of 131 articles of the Court of Auditors Act. Ready? Ivan Krulko, a minute, please comment. Please all sign, all members of different factions. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! In view of the two amendments, one relating to the six years of the mandate of the head of the Court of Auditors and the deputy, as well as the other concerning the voting, had to make changes to the first part and third part of article 208-2 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. These are technical adjustments. In response to this request, article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure states that the technical amendments should be approved and that the Court of Auditors Act should be signed by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u212	It's completely technical. Look, five points. "The appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors shall be by open ballot for each candidate separately. The appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors is considered to be a candidate for a post supported by a majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. The Supreme Council shall determine the candidates for the posts of members of the Court of Auditors by a weighting vote and approve the list of members of the Court of Auditors according to the number of vacancies by a majority of votes from the constitutional status. If candidates for the posts of members of the Court of Auditors have not received the necessary number of votes to be assigned by the national deputies, a re-competition shall be announced in accordance with the procedure defined in this article. " And it's suggested that we write, "The election of the members of the Court of Auditors is conducted by the Supreme Council with an open rating vote (this is what we agreed with you) for each candidate separately. The Supreme Council appoints the members of the Court of Auditors by a list determined on the basis of the number of vacancies by an open majority of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the list of candidates for the posts of members of the Court of Auditors does not provide the required number of votes of the national deputies, a re-competition shall be announced in accordance with the procedure defined in this Article." This is a perfectly logical norm, out of the norm that you and I have adopted with regard to the rating vote for candidates in the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. In order to do so, 131 articles apply these technical regulations. Is there no objection? You don't? Please, in order of 131st, please vote, what John Krulko reported, and what I read. Stop, stop, stop. Stop voting. Who signed "self-help"? From "self-help," who called? Vote? Please, colleagues, in the context of 131 articles, a technical clarification on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on the Court of Auditors. Please vote. My colleagues, have you taken your seats? Technical disagreements with the Accounting House Act, because I can't sign it. Please vote. Are you sure? All of it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Technical differences, colleagues. [[13:41:46]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. I beg you, Ivan Krulko, please explain to your colleagues what was going on. Colleagues, 2757. Draft Act amending article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies (to reduce the quorum of the general congregations of members of society with limited responsibility). Draft law in the first reading, author of the national deputy of Ukraine Rizanenko Paul. There is an offer by the author to consider the simplified procedure of the draft law. Please be supportive. As far as consideration is concerned, it's a shortcut. [[13:42:29]] For-191
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u213	Good afternoon. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Your point is to consider Bill 2757, which proposes to amend the Law on Economic Associations. As you may recall, a few months ago, we adopted amendments to the Shareholder Society Act, which reduced the quorum from 60 percent to 50 percent. But besides stock companies, there are also farm associations, and they are subject to a purely different form of farming. This bill is very simple, and he proposes to bring into line the standard that applies to household associations to the one that is also in the Act on Shareholder Associations. The Constitution does not allow discrimination in the form of the same property. Well, of course, it's very logical that after the adoption of that law we should bring into line with the norm that governs the activities of the farm societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Is there a need to discuss? National Deputy Yuri Soloway of the Committee. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy discussed at its meeting on 17 June 2015 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 60 of the Law on Economic Societies (to reduce the quorum of the general assembly of members of society with limited responsibility) (imposed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rizanenko Paul). The bill provides for a reduction in the quorum of the general congregations of society with limited responsibility from 60 percent to 50 percent. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of 17.06. In 2015, he supported the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. After considering the bill, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council approve the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u216	Colleagues, there's a very good proposition: to vote on this bill as a basis and in general, 2757. Please, this is publicity, discovery, yes, the issue of the quorum of farm societies. We've already made such bold decisions, I think we need to confirm again. Colleagues, to vote for your consideration are: registration number., draft Act amending article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies (to reduce the quorum of the general meeting of members of the limited liability society) (registration No. 2757). There is an offer by the author, supported by the committee, to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. On the basis and in general, 2757. 2757, on the basis and in general. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote. On the basis of a total of 2757. Please vote. [[13:46:03]] For 213 Self-help doesn't vote. Please, Victor Krivenko. Victor Krivenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u217	Good afternoon. Look, we understand logic when we voted on state-owned enterprises. I want to hear it all, and it's not an exaggeration that voting on this bill is the adoption of "buy of death" on my own. A lot of business was structured in Ukrainian realities and the only protection was that it was impossible to hold congregations, so companies were structured by 58 by 42.55 by 45. And now we have you with us: all of whom had less than 40 percent, in the case of the misbehaviour of the majority shareholder, all of whom had already been "pulled" -- hundreds of examples in Ukraine, hundreds of squabbles. Now we're taking this 10 percent, we're taking this risk zone, and a lot of foreign companies have come here, and knowing that the only way to protect themselves is to have at least 40 percent, they've structured their business this way. So it's not possible to vote without a clear definition, a "voluntary" ransom there, a drop in the auction, or, in any case, a majority shareholder's share and a minority's share, it's impossible to do that in any case. Two, there's no emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u218	Please, Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u219	I'm talking to my self-help colleagues, and I want to remind them that we've already voted on the Act on Change to Shareholders. And the Self-Help faction, we thank you, supported the same bill: that equity societies, that farm societies, are subjects of economic activity in their essence. And the same thing, if we've already passed this law, we have to stick to the Constitution, where we have a clear record that they can't discriminate, and the standards are different for different forms of property. This law, by the way, is also proposed, and I want to draw your attention to what is being proposed for the transition period, it doesn't take effect immediately with its adoption, and it provides that 90 days as a minimum is being given. If you have an offer to do it for 120 days, well five years we know it's never. In our country where elections are held every year, five years is never. If it's 120 days or six months 180 days, let's vote on that proposal. But bringing it into line with the Act on Shareholder Associations and with the requirements of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u220	Thank you. Paul Pinzenik, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction strongly supports the adoption of this bill as a whole. This bill is a logical continuation of the processes of deligarchization of the Ukrainian economy, a logical continuation of what we did on the issue of "Scrooge" at the time was one interested oligarch, now another named Dmitri Firtash. We call on all the Ukrainian national MPs to identify themselves as state or as Firthash? If we vote for the state as a whole. And no argument can justify refusing that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u222	My colleagues, look, it's obvious that this problem needs to be resolved -- what I've heard. But I would like to point out that for private entities, private structures, this is about private, you have to make some transition period. Because that's how they built their own business, and this own business has nothing to do with the state. And so a transitional period has to be saved in order to solve this issue. I have an offer, let's go back to the 2757 -- let's go back to it and maybe take it as a base. Let's still define, let's talk more. We're discussing either a larger transition period or a smaller transition period and it's going to be perfectly normal. No, we're not going to do it, we're going to vote it as a basis, and we're going to send it to the committee and you're going to do it. Colleagues, I think we're just going to stop at this law that we're not. Please, let's return. On my return to 2757, I think we should have a discussion on the committee. You won't find a common language and there won't be, there'll be a common language, there'll be 226 votes and it'll be accepted. But I agree with Victor Krivenk's logic, 90 days is nothing, it's now. One hundred percent, I agree. Colleagues, let's go back 2757 and maybe now we'll consider taking it as a basis and sending it to the committee to see when it goes into action, to discuss with business associations and just make the right decision. Please vote for the return. 2757 for the return, for the return. [[13:51:19]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues, I suggest you don't break the spears. So let's take it as a base, and let's take it as a committee. In the committee, let's figure out what to do with this question. Discuss publicly, invite representatives of the Business Association, and identify yourself. You have logic, self-help colleagues, you have logic. Victor Krivenko. Fellows, let's base it on Victor, let's vote and send it to the committee for public consideration. Do we have a deal? On the basis of everything. Victor, one minute, please. Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u223	I fully support the logic of the Chief of the Supreme Council, that companies were structured and companies organized their business plans. And they definitely need at least three, preferably five years to complete their projects. For today, anyone who wants to take property from someone, please take action in the legislative field, not by changing the rules of the game. Ukraine is funny around the world because it constantly changes the rules of the game and says, "Boys, now wake up in new conditions." Everyone knows that the quorum can change the status, and what it says doesn't matter. Now everyone with less than 60 percent and more than 50 is standing and clapping their hands. And that's hundreds, if not thousands, of companies. You can't do that. So at least – the amendment – three years. And we vote in the first reading. And foresaw for the second reading a mechanism for the redemption of the Minorator's fate. Here's two things: three years and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u224	Now we're going to take it as a base. The committee will have to make a decision and make a proposal on the terms of the transitional period, including the purchase of the mechanism. With these rights, we take as a basis, and the term should be sufficient, including European practice, which is sufficient, based on European practice, so as not to create any problems. Do we have a deal? Please, on the basis of these two rights: determine a sufficient term and determine the mechanisms for redemption of shares in private business, inside private business. Please vote, colleagues, on the basis of the results of the first reading. I don't know if it's going to be 3, or if it's going to be 5, or if it's going to be 2. A sufficient term based on world and European experience. As long as we see it. Colleagues, that's the basis. For the second reading, a sufficient term of at least 1 year should be set at least 1 year. Colleagues, please support. At least 1 year, you'll continue to discuss it, colleagues. Based on the definition of the term not less than a year, and the mechanism of the ransom. Is it accepted? Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Not less than 1 year. There's been an amendment for three years. Please take into account the correction, 3 years. [[13:54:34]] For 228 Guys, let's go back. Okay, a mistake. I thought it was an agreed position. Let's go back. We'll be back again, colleagues. Once again, return, on the basis of return, colleagues, we consider the decision. The controversial was the proposal, the controversial proposal, I ask you to review the results of the vote, come back. Please return to question 2757 and consider it as a basis. We vote first in favour of returning to question 2757. Vote. Let's go back, 2757. Please support the return. [[13:55:25]] For 235 Thank you, colleagues. Please, Paul Rizanenko, suggestions. Everyone, please take your seats. Corrections, please. Listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, from the Self-Help faction, who does not vote in favour of this law as it is. Here's the next offer. I'll give her a call. We're not going to be able to take it out of the text right now and vote for it as a whole, but the Self-Help faction proposes to do the following. What to take as a basis, but in the amendments that will be developed for the second reading, there are two things to predict. A greater deadline for the entry into force of this law. So it's 90 days now, they're offering, I don't know, at least three years. That's what the Self-Help faction offers. This time. And the second suggestion they propose to take into account in the second reading is to make provision in the Act on Shareholder Associations for a mechanism of forced redemption. Correct, if I'm wrong, self-help. To foresee in the Law on Economic Societies a mechanism to redeem each other's shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u226	Colleagues, I think these two things need to be done. Three years, I take it, there's a discussion. Let's write, "not less than one year, not less than one year." Keep discussing it on the committee. At least a year, okay, Victor? "At least one year. And the second sentence can be accepted. Colleagues. At least one year. Is the offer accepted – at least one year? At least one year. Mikola Martinenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this amendment for excluding one question: apart from state-owned enterprises, where they have 50 plus 1 share. There should be action immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u228	Besides state enterprises, it's smart. "At least one year, except for state-owned enterprises." And predict the second reading. And to predict in preparation for the second reading of two mechanisms: the terms, not less than a year, the ransom mechanism, and that this is not distributed to state-owned enterprises. We're voting on the basis, that's why. Please vote. At least a year of transition, please vote on the basis, my friends. Based on the base. For 226 Decision taken. Friends, not less than a year ago, the proposal was made on the basis of preparation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Here's the deal. I'm asking for your attention. I'm using my 15. There are three decrees, the colleagues that have been made by the Rules Committee. Listen. And they have to open up an opportunity to consider signing the Public Prosecutor's Act, the National Police, internal affairs. I bring to your attention questions that do not need to be included in the agenda. Registration No. 2667-p, draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 July 15 on the adoption of second reading and in the entire draft laws of Ukraine amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office on the improvement and application of individual provisions. Victor Vasilovich Chumak reports. I propose that these decisions be considered in a simplified procedure. Please, colleagues. Please support the review of the summary procedure of these three regulations. I'd like to support you with a reduced procedure, please. Short-term review, please support. [[13:59:49]] For 104 Friends, he's rephrasing the proposal. There's a proposal for these three decisions to be considered by a reduced procedure. I took advantage of my right to continue my work for 15 minutes. And for 15 minutes, we will begin our work at 3:15 p.m. Everything will be returned to you. Please proceed with the summary procedure of the 3rd rulings. Please be supportive. Please support the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Decisions on revoking the vote. [[14:00:20]] For 116 There's potential now. Colleagues, once again, three decrees, friends on short notice. That's the question. Colleagues, that's the question. I'm asking everyone to focus. The factions, please, "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front", "The Radical Party" by Oleg Ljashka and "The Father's" and "The Self-Help," will consider the regulations so that I can unlock the possibility of signing the Prosecutor's Laws, the National Police, so that we can take these decisions, and the internal affairs authorities, into consideration the summary procedure. They were discussed on the committee. And the third is internal affairs. Please support the consideration of these regulations by a reduced procedure. And we'll be able to look at them. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please support the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[14:01:25]] For-151 Decision taken. Please report, Victor Vasilovich Chumak, 2667. Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Please, 2822th National MP Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u229	Dear National Deputies! I've already drawn your attention to the problem that arose in the National Police Act. Why I want to pay attention to this fundamental standard. This law provides for an unprecedented standard. When the National Police, as a public authority, have the right to finance at the expense of private companies. Ask yourself, ‘ Whose instructions will the police be involved in law enforcement, or will they perform the functions of executing the orders of those who pay? ’ Why I wanted to draw attention to this standard. I am convinced that in this room this rule would never have passed if the basic procedure for consideration of the bill had been followed. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the bill should be distributed 10 days before the second reading before the vote. It was given out on the day of the vote, 2 numbers. The day the bill was voted. So I propose that we ensure compliance with the rules, cancel the decisions, have a full discussion procedure and clean up this bill. And to a colleague of mine who wears my last name, I want to advise or change my last name or to tell the truth! Because the committee concluded that I had not applied for a violation of the rules. I'm asking you to pick up the record, the air record, as I filed for violation of the Rules. It's different. I called the committee twice yesterday. Will my draft decisions be considered? "No," they said, "these decisions will be taken on Thursday." I ask you to investigate how the Rules have been decided. And I'm asking my colleague to vote in favour of calling it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u230	Thank you. Paul Pinzenick. Paul Pinzenik, please, 2822.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, at its session, reviewed the 2667-p draft of the Order, authorizing the People's Deputies of Pinzenik, Chumak, and decided not to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u232	Thank you, Your Honor. There's an offer of 2822. Please give me a minute, National Deputy Novak. National MP Novak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u233	Honorable deputies, and I also appeal to the acting director of the regulatory committee. The point is that in preparing the rulings, the authors of the decrees have the right to be present at a committee meeting. And, indeed, Chumak received an invitation to all the projects that I, Pinzenik and Chumak had submitted, we should be present on the committee. We were invited to the committee today at 2:15 p.m. Instead, the committee met without the presence of those who passed these laws and held a secret meeting. This is also not in line with the Rules and does not conform to the moral rules that are in force in this room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u234	Thank you, Your Honor. You have been introduced to your vote by the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 July 2015 on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian National Police Bill. 2822 – please decide on the vote. [[14:06:12]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Parliament is believed to have made a decision. Let's move on, dear fellows. 2667-P draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 02 July 2015 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prosecutor's Office (for the improvement and application of individual provisions)." Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Please. Victor Vasilovich Chumak, please. Please, project 2667-P.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the decision to repeal the Procuratorial Act has been made in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules. You remember how many times we voted on this bill as a result of a gross violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. But that's the point. The problem is not that we broke the rules, we violate it every day. The problem is that, in principle, because of a violation of the regulations, very dangerous rules were introduced into the Public Prosecutor’s Act. In principle, it's a positive law that opens the way for the creation of a normal European prosecutor's office. What's that? This law threatens, endangers the independence of the anticorruption prosecutor’s office. Then, when we fought with you for the number of candidates who would represent the Supreme Council, the public organizations, the prosecutors, there were more dangerous standards that I told everyone about, but unfortunately few people listened to. There are very dangerous rules when anti-corruption prosecutors, a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office, will be appointed by the Attorney-General, who will practically cross the independence of the anti-corruption prosecutor and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau as a body to investigate corruption, including the Attorney-General, including those for which prosecutions have now been initiated. You can see very well what's going on in the Attorney General's office right now. So what I'm saying is, we have to support this decision, we have to call off the vote, and we have to go back to looking at this bill essentially, and that's exactly what's going on with our prosecutor's office. I want to tell you honestly, I've been meeting with one of the heads of the prosecution, and I'm literally conveying to you the words of one of the principals, "90 percent of the prosecutors," and I'm sorry for the slang he was talking about -- "hair money."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u236	Please, 30 seconds, please finish, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u237	"Six percent of prosecutors don't do this because they don't know how to do it, and only four do real things." Dear friends, this is a sentence for the prosecution! It is a judgment when one of her leaders speaks. This prosecutor's office needs to be run and picked up and picked up a new one. So I ask you very much to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u238	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u239	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Chairman, the committee had before it a draft decree (registration number 2667) amending the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, repealing the decision of the Supreme Council, the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. The Committee noted that the draft regulation, which violated the regulatory requirements for the deadlines for the submission of such orders, should be submitted within two days of the vote, instead of a draft regulation registered for six numbers, recommending that the draft regulation should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to vote on Decree 2667-P of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 2 July 2015 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act on the improvement and application of individual provisions. I'll bet you 2667-P. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:02]] For-90 The decision is not taken. Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak for one minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, in general, an unprecedented case. I want to tell you, this letter in my name, the same came from Natali Vasilni Novak and Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik about the committee's consideration of our orders. That's a leaf. I want to say that the committee should be in accordance with this letter at 14 hours 15 minutes today, in four minutes. There's already a committee decision in four minutes, as you can see. What is more, yesterday when Viktor Mikhailovich called, he was told that he would not, at all, have a decision by the regulatory committee on these orders. That's what I'm saying. I'm just saying a case that I don't have words for the Regulatory Committee and his parole officer. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u242	Victor Vasilovich, the committee concludes: "To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative without consideration in plenary session." And I put in a plenary session to make sure that the MPs were identified. So it's completely objective here. So 2667-P decree, 2667-p order is not adopted. Dear colleagues, here we go: 2567, 2561, I will finally give you the 2561-P draft of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 July 2015 on the adoption as a whole as a bill, the Law of Ukraine on Internal Affairs. National MP Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Yuri Lewchenko, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u243	Yeah, well. Levchenko "Freedom", 223 District of Kiev. What we're seeing right now is the last few minutes that we've actually been seeing for the last six months in this session hall, is essentially ignoring the fact that we actually have the Law of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, which we each, we all have to abide by. But this law is not adhered to by a regulatory committee, and this law is not enforced by those who are in the Presidency on a permanent basis. And all the time, when we're looking at every issue, maybe not every one of them, but when we consider 70-80 percent of the Supreme Council Rules, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules Act "On the Rules of Procedure" is being severely violated. Meanwhile, we do not yet have the head of the regulatory committee, and the first deputy, frankly, twists the rules and calls the black one white, and the white one calls the black. That's the situation, actually. The result of all this is what? The result is that the Supreme Council, if it's adopting more or less normal laws, then these laws are, they're terrible because they have a lot of mistakes. Because the second reading procedure does not follow. Because the second time you read from the voice, you don't know what kind of amendments you're making. Because normal corrections are not announced. Because bad changes, on the other hand, are not damaged because they refuse to be put on the stand to cut them off. And in the end, we have terrible legislation, even in cases where the idea is in principle normal. But there is terrible legislation, society. This has to be stopped at last. If the Supreme Council itself is unable to comply with the law under which it is intended to live, how should national MPs, as a respected coalition, require the people of Ukraine to do all the rest of the legislation if we cannot live by it alone. So, finally, stop breaking the rules and comply with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulations Act. The glory of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u244	Thank you. Please Head of the Profit Committee. First Deputy Head of the Professional Committee, Paul Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u245	Dear National Deputies! The Rules Committee, at its meeting on 14 July 15, reviewed the draft Decree (Registration No. 2561) and adopted a recommendation to the Supreme Council to reject the proposed draft Ordinance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2561 has been put to the vote. The draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 July 2015 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the Ukrainian Law on Internal Affairs (Registration No. 2561-P). Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, well, even the reduced procedure involves two for, two for, two for, and two for, against. It's not a simple problem that we've encountered. If, you know, there's a lot of people out there fighting against buttons. The worst form of buttoning that exists in our Parliament is to vote on laws that do not exist physically. The second number was distributed only five laws in a total of 1,300 pages, to which there were 2.5 thousand amendments. Please tell me, when is the MP supposed to read this law, between 21 and 22 votes again? I don't want to be a buttonhead in this Parliament. I want to read the draft laws. And I ask my colleagues to support the decision to cancel and comply with the requirements of the Rules, which allow the MP to at least read the law for which he votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u248	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute. Oleg Beresuk, one minute. Oleg Beresuk. Oleg Romanovich, you wanted to speak. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u249	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u250	Yegor Sobolev, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u251	Colleagues, there's an offer to continue working after lunch. The most important thing right now is to stop the counter-revolution, which included the Attorney General's Office. I have a request from the Speaker of Parliament to call Shockin here immediately, let him report. The other one. Second question to all colleagues in Parliament. Please sign the draft Decision on his release, through the mistrust of the Supreme Council in Oleg Lášk. And a third request to everyone. If the counter-revolution reaches the search, in Sekvarelid and in Kaska, let's go together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u252	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov, the Opposition Block. Wait a minute. And then Oleg Lazko. Well, what are you doing? Then Oleg Light One minute. Well, we just, I don't have to interrupt the question, I started it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, I think this is what's happening, and this is very, very significant, as a result of what we've been talking about over the past six months. There is a rule that is the basic law for the walls of this Parliament. I agree with Pinzenick 100 percent. We can agree with him, or disagree in terms of economic issues, political issues. But to vote in favour of laws that we have not seen, to vote in favour of papers that none of the MPs have held in hand, to vote in the push-button scheme, because this type of buttoning is really different from what you've been talking about lately? We therefore support this decision, but we still see it as a cynical approach to not taking the decision but simply talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u254	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u255	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear fellow national MPs! Maybe someone didn't hear Yegor Sobolev. Currently, under the approval of the Attorney General, who is being investigated in court or is planning to conduct a search of Deputy Attorney General Saquarelidze, who has detained corrupters in the prosecutor's system. We've been collecting signatures for the Attorney General's resignation, and we've already collected 90 signatures. A month ago, we started the Attorney General's resignation procedure if you weren't afraid to take responsibility, if we had released the Attorney General a month ago today, there would have been no counter-revolution in the Attorney General's Office. I'm calling on my colleagues from the Procurator General's House, Father's Office, People's Front, and asking you to sign the draft of the Procurator General's Retirement Order, and tomorrow to hear the question of the resignation of Attorney General Shokin as a guide to a gang of regionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m0.u256	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft regulation 2561. Please make up your mind and vote. Please turn on the voting system. Vote! [[14:21:07]] For-97 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have agreed that our break will only take an hour. We have a very important issue after lunch: the Local Elections Act, 2423. I ask disciplinedly in an hour, at 3:20 p.m., to gather in the hall to continue our work. We will not overcome corruption unless we adopt the Elections Act and 2423 today. At that, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And we're all waiting at 3:20 p.m., without delay in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
