ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen, we begin our morning meeting. People's deputies please come into the hall, take their seats, prepare for registration. And today we have a "hour of questions to the government" according to the Rules. For the first time, I would like to inform you about yesterday. I think that yesterday we made enough important government decisions and demonstrated the country as a whole that when it comes to responsible decisions by the Ukrainian Parliament, we can be united, we can make state decisions, not just to proclaim beautiful slogans. Yesterday we decided to restructure Ukraine's debt, we decided to raise social standards. It all affects the economic stability of our state, and I hope it will be the beginning of economic growth. And no matter what you say, yesterday's decisions were very important. I would also like to say that the long-awaited decisions taken to raise social standards, I think the balance between economic reforms, economic stability and social standards should always be preserved, and people should not suffer from it, and that is fundamentally important. So I think this should be one of our priorities. I would also like to point out that yesterday we made a very important decision: we formed seven members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create a full anti-corruption prosecutor's office. And yesterday's vote of MPs, rankings, MPs gave the opportunity to select decent people who actually form candidates, propose, take candidates to the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, the anti-corruption prosecutor, and this will allow for a real fight against corruption effectively. And I think there's no secret for anyone, for the whole country, that decision that we made yesterday, we testified with you that we are absolutely intolerant of any corruption, bribery in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. I think it was also a responsible decision that we were supposed to make, and yesterday we made it, and we gave the law enforcement system the opportunity to prove that it was effective. But before that, I think any guilt should be proved in court. And it's very important that we didn't let anyone hide behind the MP's in touch, which is just unlimited, just unlimited. And this is another question that we need to make very clear political activity from the criminal activity of corruption and bribery. Another thing, perhaps to conclude, is that of fellow believers. I think you and I have to be completely indifferent and a name, party membership of people who might be involved in corruption in the future. And I want to say very frankly today, who would that not apply in the future, unless we understand that we have to build the 21st century of Parliamentarianism, where there is no room for insolence, a violation of the law, a rise in corruption, bribery, and pay-per-view services. I support any submission with data available against any MP in this session room. And I'm convinced that this is going to be the position of the absolute majority of people. I think yesterday was a very clear day for each of us. And this is a signal to all the authorities of the state that we have to overestimate values if someone has absolutely no understanding that we have to build a quality European state. But on corruption, bribery and crime, a civilised state, you will not build a European state. Of course, we will do everything we can to build quality work inside Parliament. And I urge everyone to do this constructive work together and to do it in good quality. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. [[10:08:53]] 263 national deputies are in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague Paul Volodymyrovich Djublik, the national deputy of Ukraine. Let us welcome and wish all the good things of the earth, good and health. Dear colleague, happy birthday. [[Applause]] That's right. Before we begin "the hour of questions to the government" is the concern of the National Deputy Witka, he asks a minute. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! After what was seen yesterday, the accusations they made to me about political prostitution and political corruption. Here I categorically condemn any political prostitution and any political corruption in this holy building. That's why I don't want to be in this political power anymore, and I regret spending a year of my life on nothing, roughly speaking, I don't know how to speak. I think the collapse of the coalition is separatism. It's an honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u3	This is a statement by the People's Deputy Vitko regarding the exclusion of him from the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Groisman W.B. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, please exclude me from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u4	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u5	Thank you. It'll be possible, you'll answer. Answer me. Dear colleagues, we're starting an hour of questions to the government. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Lazko, please. Oleg Lazko, word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! What happened yesterday in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall, the lawlessness that took place, it can. You laugh, yes, that'll apply to you tomorrow. Political corruption brought to the Hall of the Ukrainian Parliament, Poshenko, which bribes deputies. This is our former MP, before going to the rostrum, he was instructed by Tretyakov and Lucenko in the BPP sector. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want you to hear me. About Mosiyczuk. If Moses is guilty, let him answer, we do not cover him. But no one gave Moisiczuk the right to be deprived of protection, no one gave Mosiyczuk the right to keep his word! The swearer was given the word when the touch was removed! They didn't give Mosichuku, they didn't give us. This is the political solution that is happening today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u7	Dear colleagues of the people's deputies were, in fact, the submission of materials to two deputies, to Klav and to Melniczuk. They were in the hall, he's still sitting in Melniczuk. But there were no such facts, what we saw here. What, should we not have voted? [[B in m in s a l in]] The law was passed yesterday. Please, Yuri Lucenko. This was the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! We recently celebrated the anniversary of the great Ukrainian writer Gogol, who wrote the Immortal Auditor. And today, finally, is the time to talk about the modern hero of the Auditor. In 1992 a man in the form of a colonel of the police came to the office of MREO chief of the Merefi district of Kharkiv, showing a certificate from Assistant Minister of Interior Vasilishin Láško Olega Valeriyovich. Then the unfortunate Captain Dmitriev, deputy director of the station of Kolotuh, director of the station of Assishenko, was called. It was explained that he had generals in his office, and they were allowed to be late to talk to such a person. As a result of the colonel's drive, this new auditor received a free Volga 31029 engine number 0056722. [[Applause]] Free of charge, Captain Dmitriev pushed her into Kiev into a two - room service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u10	Two-room apartment of the newly discovered colonel. 25-year-old colonel of the police. But greed brought this auditor down, because in August he came back to Merifa and again demanded the "Wolf" of ivory color, and here he was taken with the police. The house was searched for him, 1992, Philippe's refrigerator, Samsung's video recorder, a lot of money. On December 9, 1994, the court found this affair to be guilty of the theft of state collective property of a particularly large size of 2.5 million, even of those hard carbs, 86 C.E. 1,voluntarily assigning power (191 characters 1), falsifying documents (194 characters 3). He was ten years old. But a young boy, everyone laughed because everyone thought, well, he was such a great adventurer. And they gave him only six. Then the court turned the article into financial fraud, fraud, and amnesty for Oleg Valeriyovich to leave the Isiaslav Colony, and became involved in politics. Started writing opposition things, working in Fatherland. Then even he was tried for it. He really won the European Court of Justice, and now he's telling everyone he's won. Not in those articles. He was and is an apherist, he was and he is an artist. But today this artistry is overthrown by the country, bringing political corruption. It takes a lot of loud words into its mouth, but it is not responsible for its actions. We have to stop this! We have to answer for our actions, Oleg Valeriovich! There's a claim of corruption - forward to the prosecution! They've been waiting for you for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, we're starting an hour of questions to the government. A replica, please, a minute of replica. And then we start with an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I think that yours, so pathetic, so interesting, such an informed speech should testify to all the Ukrainians you care about while you're in Parliament. I think you and your wife have been elected deputies to the House of Parliament to protect the country, not to carry out political orders. I do not address Mr. Lucenka, in my eyes he fell after these performances, and, I think, in the eyes of most of those present in this room, below the plentuse. I'm going to the citizens of Ukraine: look at what they're capable of, what they're willing to go to: for any kind of discredit, for any discount, just because I have a position. Give them an estimate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u13	Dear fellow national MPs, let's move on to "the hour of questions." One more minute, please, Egor Sobolev. And let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. I'm asking you, colleagues, to be us. We have a TSC on tariffs today, a task force on tariffs and a Martyr's. We have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u14	Colleagues, Self-Help is asking for attention to two conclusions from yesterday. First. All those who want justice in this room certainly have to start with themselves. It can't be that a parliamentarian sells his votes, sells his papers, sells the rights that the electorate has given him. But the second, even more important conclusion: The law must be one for all. We saw yesterday the brilliant work of the Attorney General. I think Frank's theater should be interested in this beautiful artist. [[Applause]] Where is the work of the Attorney General in relation to the people of Yanukovich? Where is the work of the Attorney General in relation to corrupters in power? Where is the work of the Attorney General in the Midan case? It's the most important task since last day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u15	Please finish. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u16	The law, justice, the Attorney General's Office really needs every Ukrainian citizen, every national. Let's do this. We approach and sign for Victor Shokin's resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u17	Dear fellow national MPs! You know, the procedure for addressing the issue of subtraction of inviolability, well, everyone has an understanding that this inviolability is unlimited, so do what you want, and no one can do anything about it to the National MP, and that, I think, is the basis for committing crimes. The rules of the Rules, which are provided for, are designed in principle to prolong the procedure of removing the inviolability of this unlimited one. That's why I'm proposing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yesterday. Yesterday, we accepted ad hoc, a deviation on demand from the Ukrainian people's deputies. I propose to amend the law: simplify the procedure in such a way that the innocent do not suffer. We don't put anyone in jail, do you? We have the right to investigate a crime that we have seen with our own eyes. If a person is to blame, he must be punished. If a person is not to blame, what is to be feared? Fear of what?Oh, my God! I, excuse me, excuse me, yes, I was sneezing for this inviolability. For 10 years, I worked as a city head. I worked in the government. I didn't have any touch. And I think that no one in the country should be touched, all of them should be equal before criminal crimes. Of course, political immunity must be observed, there must be no warning, we must build the European approach to this standard, including. Please, Your Honor, an hour of questions to the government, Ivaras Abromavichus. Before that, I'd like to read a few statements. Statement to the Head of the Supreme Council, Nemirovsky Andry Valentinovich, Ukrainian national deputy. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 57, 58, 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I declare the entry into the House of Deputies "The Will of the People" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Next, dear colleagues. According to the Rules, Oleg Musia, Ukrainian deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, has declared his resignation from the deputy faction of Peter Poroshenko. I read out the application. And the statement by Olesia Long. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and the Supreme Council Rules, I inform you of the membership of the "Will of the People" MP group. Dear colleagues, please, an hour of questions to the government. Ivaras Abromavichus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u18	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, honourable deputies, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to begin by thanking you for the fact that, despite political turbulence, a very important bill, a reform bill on public procurement, has been voted a few days ago, which is precisely the focus of the fight against corruption, including the topic of my report today. I would also like to point out that in September a large number of bills were put forward, which are specifically aimed at restoring our economy. Please consider as soon as possible, I'm counting on your support, time goes by, time goes somewhere. Today's theme is “State Enterprise Reform”. During the year, our country lost 115 billion dollars in government losses. Unfortunately, with each passing year, these losses are growing. If top-100 companies lost 9 billion grevens in 2012, 16 billion grevens in 2013, they lost 101 billion grevens last year. In the first quarter of this year, losses already amount to 9.7 billion dollars. That's twice as much as it was in the same period last year. Even if the loss of Naftogaza is not taken into account, but given the lost profits of government companies over the past year, the loss per year is now 100 billion dollars. Yesterday, by 340 votes, you raised social standards for our citizens, increased pensions, raised wages. This is $40 billion a year. Compare: 100 billion bracelets of loss and raised the social standards by 40 billion bracelets. Comparison available, comments unnecessary. What does that mean? However, in order to benefit the State and taxpayers, most of this money sits in the pockets of individuals through various types of corruption schemes. Schemes are simple but diverse. Most of the money is channelled through classic sales schemes, through purchase firms through affiliated companies, or through capital investment. However, to raise standards and invest in economic development, we feed the feeders of corruption. We have to ask for additional loans, additional financial assistance at a time when huge amounts of money literally flow through everyone's eyes like sand. For too long, the State had allowed its assets to be destroyed. It's time to stop. We have now initiated verifications in the top-20 of the largest public companies. As a result of these checks, we will take appropriate personnel action. But we can't stop at that in any way. I look forward to the active assistance of law enforcement agencies, because our goal, our objective, is to raise up all abuses in public, and the law enforcement authorities must bring this to a logical conclusion. All the checks had never led to anything before. This time, we'll just check sales and purchases. So what is this, government enterprises? It's something medium between a happy lottery ticket and the key to the apartment where the money is. In fact, it is the most convenient mechanism to raise public money on a particularly large scale. On the basis of this issue, which has existed in our country for many years, there are only two ways to combat it: to privatize and improve corporate governance standards in public enterprises. With regard to privatization. There is a need to reduce the number of public enterprises. We have 3,000 of them. Of these, 2,000 are virtually out of work. There is no country where we could say that we have 2,000 non-businesses. It also needs to be closed and moved on. Most of the guest companies are small. Top 100 is 80 per cent of the proceeds, 90 per cent of the assets. We must sell those companies that can be sold so that they can be engaged by effective owners. Effective not those who effectively steal public funds are effective – those who build factories, load them, create jobs, attract investments. To be honest, I am in favour of removing the so-called oligarchs from the great privatization of large facilities in our country. Let us look for experienced owners for whom these companies will be a profile asset for development, which will bring real foreign investment to the country, new technologies, knowledge of new markets. We need your support. We are waiting for the Parliament to consider Bill 2319a. It creates conditions for transparent privatization, effective through the abolition of the so-called 5 or 10 per cent pre-sales on virtually non-existent exchanges, through the institution of independent advisers, through the removal of non-friendly Ukrainian interests from privatization. In addition, we look forward to supporting the 2519a Parliamentary Privatization of the agro-industry complex and Ukrispirta and the 2488th Privatization of State styvidor companies and transport industries. It's practically a fragmented bill of 1567. With regard to the privatization plan itself. This year's budget provides for 17 billion dollars of net worth of privatization, on the basis that bills needed to be adopted for the start of privatization are being delayed for almost a year. Realistically, the start of a major privatization this year is highly optimistic. The Ministry of Economics is helping the Detainee Fund, but the Holding Fund is the institution that is privatizing. According to their calculations, before the end of this week, the Privatization Adviser of the Odessa Portal Plant will be announced and the privatization of other facilities will begin, first of all, the Odessa Portal, on the basis of the transparency of the process, will move forward in a transparent manner. It's the second important moment. The management of the state-owned enterprises that we own, first and foremost, by strategic enterprises that we will not privatize. They cannot be allowed to become a channel for the withdrawal of public money by whom they are at present. We have passed Bill 3062 to Parliament, which is a bill on corporate governance, and it will allow monitoring boards, independent directors in unitary guest companies, to manage professional managers, not officials. It will also strengthen audit requirements and disclosure of State-owned enterprises. Bill 23. Yeah. This bill has been supported by the Committee on Economic Policy and we look forward to your vote to earn it. Colleagues, public enterprises are a real fight against corruption. It's gotta be the last thing. Privatization should be initiated as quickly as possible, as soon as possible, to improve the management standards of the State. Let's stop corruption. Let's set new levels of corporate governance. It's up to you. Please consider laws that need to be drafted as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Please take your place. We're going to have a 30-minute procedure, and we're going to have a question, and you're going to write it down. Please, Minister of Social Policy Paul Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies, Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I would like first of all to thank everyone for the decision you made yesterday and for the first step in raising social standards and quality of life in the country that we have made today's government along with the coalition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To understand how difficult this was and how important it was, we should just remind all of us that the last social standards, the subsistence minimum, the minimum wage and the pension rose almost two years ago. In fact, for two years, there has been no rise in social standards. There was a war, there was a war. The decline of the economy. The cataclysms in which we all live have, unfortunately, given a negative reaction, including to the standard of living in the country. And that's why it's an important step. He's the first, but he's not the last. This step, supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, will increase wages, pensions, and all kinds of social assistance for about 13 million Ukrainians. Seven and a half million pensioners will receive pensions. Three million budget workers, teachers, doctors, cultural workers, social workers, and sports will receive an increase in wages. About 2 million people will receive an increase in all forms of social assistance. Overall, more than 80 forms of social assistance will be increased after the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday — payments, compensations, scholarships, and so forth. What's important is that these 10 billion, which were added to the U.K. government budget yesterday, are neither emissionary nor inflationary. So these costs are going to be absolutely positive for the economy of Ukraine, because these 10 billion won't be offshore, these 10 billion dollars won't be distributed by a variety of shadow schemes. These 10 billion will come from buying goods and services into the Ukrainian economy. It's an additional resource that will get the economy literally in the near future. I'm literally going to take a moment to stop at the basic rises in social standards that we received yesterday. So the cost per person on average is going to be 1 thousand 330 dollars. The minimum wage for children under 6 years of age will be 1,000 167 dollars. The minimum wage for children between the ages of 6 and 18 will be $1,455. The minimum wage for working persons, which is the level and minimum wage, will be 1 thousand 378 dollars. The minimum income for those who have lost their jobs — that is, the minimum pension — will not be lower than 1 thousand 74 dollars in Ukraine. What's very important is what I said yesterday, along with raising social standards, is an average of 13 percent, including a small reform in the wage system of budget workers. Because in addition to raising the minimum wage by 13 percent, we also raise the rate of the first tariff level of the single tariff grid. This increase will be close to 19 percent. So the first tariff charge of September 1, 2015 will be set to 1012. What does that mean? Unfortunately, over the past five years, the tariff network in the system of salaries of budget workers — teachers, doctors, all of our cultural workers, social workers, and so on has been tightening in recent years. And we have. We've already reached the leveling point, when a highly qualified force and a low-skilled force have almost already received the same, almost identical job salary. So this increase in the first tariff level, the only tariff grid of 18 percent, 18.8 percent, almost 19 percent, allows the extension of this tariff grid, where the first-class workers, this is a low-skilled labour force, budget workers get an increase of 13 percent to a salary, and higher-seven tariff-grade workers, which is already more highly skilled, with higher education -- surgeons, higher-class teachers, social workers -- gets an increase in wages by about 19 percent. It's very important to show society that, yes, we support everyone, we appreciate the contribution and the work of every person, but a higher salary must still be given to a more skilled workforce, and so we need to be self-sufficient in order to improve our skills, both for re-training and for learning new skills, in order to get more pay in the future. It's very important. Thus, the average wage increase for the health care system will be from about 200 to 450 dollars. The increase in salaries will result in an increase of 300 dollars for social workers. The wage increase for educational workers will be between 250 and 600 dollars on average, between 300 and 450 dollars for cultural workers. As a result of the rise in social standards, I have already said, there will be an increase in all kinds of social assistance. In particular, minimum pension payments will be increased if the job is lost, if the breadwinner is lost, it is for 300,000 people who have lost the breadwinners that will increase the pension payment on average by an average of 13 percent. The minimum amount of the pension for the loss of a military service provider will increase to 2,000, 150 dollars per month, up to about 90,000 people who lost a military service provider. Pensions will be reviewed for about 120 thousand war invalids and 8,000 invalids — participants in the elimination of the accident. The Chernobyl disaster. As you know, for years, unfortunately, this is a problem that is being pursued by liquidators -- participants in the Chernobyl AES accident -- does not fully implement the Elimination Act. We are taking the first step to establish social justice for participants in the elimination of the consequences of the CHAS accident and their disability payments will also increase by 13 percent from September 1st. And I hope that in the following year, the same policy will continue with us as regards liquidators, participants in the elimination of an accident. About 390,000 people with disabilities from childhood and children with disabilities receive an average allowance of 200-260 bracelets. Raising will be a major help to children who are cared for and cared for by single mothers. The rise will take place in general, I repeat, for over 12 and a half million of our fellow citizens. Once again, yes, it's a little, yeah, it's not enough, but it's just the first step. And the state budget for 2016 is going to provide for an increase in social standards. Social spending in 2016 will also increase for social policy. The following year, social standards are expected to rise.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u21	How much longer do you have? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u22	In 2016, the increase in social standards will take place twice a year, but this is certainly only the same with the joint and close work of the coalition and the government. Because without the laws passed by the coalition and the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine over the year, that rise in social standards was not to be thought of. So thank you for your work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine Vladimir Vasilovich Demchisin is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u24	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! One month before the start of the hot season, I understand very well that everyone is primarily interested in the question of how ready the country is for this hot season. And in my report, I want to answer both the questions of the MPs who came today and the general question of citizens: whether there's going to be vortex shut-offs, whether there's enough gas in the vaults, or whether we can go through this heating season peacefully. I've prepared some slides. What I'm saying right now is that in fact, all of the fertilization that's forming around this issue is, to some extent, it's artificially shaped. You understand very well that market participants are interested in getting more money from consumers through tariffs, so they demand an increase in tariffs for which they are willing to repair stations and buy coal. They also try to obtain additional funds from both the Ministry and the government to fund both coal and gas reserves in warehouses. So just to be clear about the situation, I want you to look at the first slide. This is the electricity consumption graph. This year, consumption declined by 10 percent. And you. by group, by category, you see that the biggest decline in consumption in industry, the population is smaller. That's 5 percent. Here's the next slide. At this point, it's made. You realize that the decrease in consumption is also decreasing. But because Ukraine has this unique asset that's left of the Soviet Union, which is nuclear energy -- energy -- and we've made every effort right now to increase the production of energy to energy. This energy is cheap relative. This energy is pure. Moreover, at present there is a full supply of nuclear fuel for the entire heating season. So by increasing the production of nuclear energy, we guarantee consumers the availability of electricity during the heating season. On the other hand. This is what you see, from 46 percent last year, production will increase to 55, 10 percent of consumption will be provided extra at the expense of nuclear. atomic energy. On the other hand, the bottom part is the ratio of the heat generation. The heat generation accordingly reduces its share of the market. That means 30 percent in this year we expect a reduction in the energy production of the heat generation. That means we need 30 percent less coal, less coal to buy, less transport. What's more, there's another specific thing in this graph. Historically, we had powers that consumed the gas mark of coal and anthrax, 50 times 50. Since there is no "A" coal left in Ukraine right now, we don't get it at all. We import it either from Russia, or from South Africa, or from the United States, or we import it from uncontrollable territory. We're trying to minimize this part because it's a problem generation. To be sure that we will be able to get it out of the war effort or Russia will give us the opportunity to start this coal, which is not easy in Ukraine, or if we can get it out of South Africa, we're not sure about it, so we're doing our best to reduce the share of production in anthracite coal. For example, let me tell you. Last year, during the heating season, 13 million tons of anthracite coal was burned, and this year we expect no more than 5 million to be burned. Do you feel the difference? Based on atomic, consumption decreases and increased use of gas blocks. Next slide. Now it's a short supply. This is a blue graph last year, a red graph this year. I want to show you that we're in a very positive trend right now, we're growing supplies. To date, we have reached the level of last year, but last year you remember that there were very bad events in the Donetsk region, Ilovysk, you remember. The supply of coal fell sharply, we didn't understand how to put it, there was no logistics, there was no funding, there was no cost at the end. At present, the situation in our coal sector has changed considerably in the coal sector. Growth is taking place. We've made contact in all directions. More than that, for example, several market participants, such as CHILD, have additional coal reserves already obtained at their mines. So 400,000 tons of them are still on the mines. And the main thing in this graph is to remember that the government has allocated 2 billion dollars for the purchase of coal, a billion of which have already been used, a billion will be used as soon as possible. So that means that the cost is enough to buy this coal. For 2 billion you can buy at least one and a half million tons of coal. In order to enter the winter with a comfortable level of supplies, we need to build up some 900,000 tons. It is a volume with which we can enter into winter comfortably. And I'm reminding you once again, because consumption is decreasing, there's an increase in the production of nuclear energy. So I'm sure, and more than that, we still have at least a month left to fill these stocks. Here's your next schedule. The next important point is the collection of funds from the market. So the power plants can provide electricity to consumers if they have repairs, repairs, pre-prepared blocks, or equipment prepared for the heating season, and there's a supply. All of this can be done with money. The cost of the heat generation gets from a tariff that they can collect from the market. And the second part is to borrow credit. On this graph, I want to show that between January and September, the collection rate from the market rose from 75 percent to 93 percent. It's very important because if there's no fundraising from the market, it doesn't matter what tariff. It's just not filling up, the stations don't get the money. They have nothing to buy coal or repair their stations for. Therefore, the main work, both the ministries and the NCRE regulator, was aimed at increasing the level of payment by industrial consumers in the first place. Well, you see, I specifically showed the main deities -- they're water canals. It's a very big problem to raise money from water canals. Legislatively, they can't be shut down, they can't be affected, local councils support them because they don't pay. We prepared legislation. And this, by the way, please support us in trying to increase the collection of funds from the water ducts. We propose to change the law. enter the possibility to enter so-called distribution accounts for watercanals. Which will allow the costs that come from end consumers not to stay in the water canal and be spent on something else, but to be automatically paid for electricity, pay for wages, and so on. It's very important. At the moment, such a mechanism is the only one that can increase the collection of funds from the market. So once again, please don't believe those who say we're not ready. We're in full swing. We've got enough. That is, in the heat generation, a fully funded tariff covers the cost. The congregation is sufficient to perform repairs, prepare for the heating season, and buy the fuel they need. Just a few more in the gas. More literally words. Following the slide, may I? The situation is very similar in gas. This year’s consumption declined. Basically, 20 percent. That's right. Can I have the next slide right now? Consumption is declining at the expense of industry, as you have seen, and at the expense of industry. It's energy efficiency and it's a decline in economics. But I want to assure you that the first effect on improving conditions, that is, improving energy efficiency, is already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u25	How many more minutes? Please turn on 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u26	Yes. Stock for today. The supply of gas in the shelters today is more than 15. This is a little out of date, 15.1 billion cubic meters today. That is, last year's level of stocks we're lagging behind very little. The main problem is, indeed, funding. There was no money at the moment. We have done a very large, large job with Western financial institutions, and today there is confidence that in the near future there will be sufficient funds to buy an additional 2 billion cubic feet [2 billion cubic m] of gas. And this will allow you to stabilize, provide sufficient supplies to guarantee transit and guarantee that there will be no shortage of gas in our shelters during the heating season. Here's the next slide. These are calculations again. Unfortunately, in the gas segment, the calculation level is slightly lower than in the electricity market. We're looking for, for example, there's a major problem right now -- gas injection. There's no money. We're going, we're asking foreign financiers to make money, and we're raising just 82 percent. So 18 percent of consumers don't pay for gas. Again, this is a major problem. So there are those who owe more than 3 billion dollars a gas today, not with Naftogaz. There's Kievenergo, who didn't pay $2 billion again. At this cost, you could buy 2 billion cubic meters that we don't have enough. Regrettably, though, it is not possible to recover these funds from those debtors today. These are private companies, yes. So once again, I stress that any attempt to improve the collection of market funds will significantly balance the market and enable you to prepare for the heating season. But at any rate for today, without expecting any warm winters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u27	30 seconds or more?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u28	Literally the last sentence. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u29	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u30	I just want to assure you that we're ready for the heating season, and we're not counting on the warm winter. We understand demand, we understand the proposal in detail. And we realize that the resources available, the funds, the stocks at the moment are to go through this heating season without problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u31	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, now 30 minutes of questions from the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. They're getting ready, aren't they? I ask you to record the questions of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please sign up. And I remind you, one minute for every oral question, and two minutes for the answer to a question. Please. Musak Alexei Petrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Mr. Umanski! See, first of all, September 15 was supposed to be a budget resolution for the Supreme Council. Yes, because it seems to me that this Parliament does have, after all, the first in all of Ukraine's independence to accept the budget according to the procedure, so that everything is clearly prescribed, calculated, not as it was last time, when we voted in favour of some virtual promise on December 28, the night, this time. And second, actually, in order for us to start an economy, we need to significantly reduce the tax burden, yes. We raised social payments yesterday, that's great. But I'd love to and comment, please, on how we're going to adopt the new Tax Code so that it doesn't happen again that we can't significantly reduce tax burden, because then we're going to have a cash break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that the government has introduced a budget resolution to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council considered it and accepted it. In this part, we did not violate the budget code and submitted this draft document on time, as well as the forecast for 2017 and 2018. Regrettably, there were no votes in the Supreme Council for support or other decisions in the Supreme Council. As for the tax base on which the state budget is to be calculated. On September 14, at a government meeting, the decision was taken to submit to the Supreme Council a draft budget for the following year, based on an active tax base. Of course, we are now preparing a package of changes, and now a working group with the parliamentary committee is being set up, with other experts in the preparation of the Tax Code, on which a new draft budget is to be calculated for the following year. Once this task force has finished its work and comes up with a balanced comparative version of the Tax Code, we will certainly review the project that is being prepared and calculate the revenue portion, depending on which compromise tax code this working group will come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u34	Thank you. The mortgager gives the word to the national deputy Kodola. Please turn on Kodoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u35	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Minister, during criminal times, particularly in the Chernigiv region, there were violent cases when children in rural schools were forced to learn in gloves and parents raised funds for buying wood and coal. The hydrometer forecast is that this winter will be cold enough, so what measures are being taken by the Ministry to prevent such incidents from happening again? And the second question. On September 18 there is a significant backlog, about 400,000 tons, of coal accumulation at power stations relative to your approved ministry of graph. So how is this going to be achieved, because on October 1st, the amount of coal in the TES and TEC warehouses is going to be 3.2 million tons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u36	In fact, in my speech, I think I answered these questions. Convinced that training is going quite actively at the moment, and it will continue for the next month. Moreover, even the start of the heating season does not prevent additional coal from being accumulated in the future. So it will continue during November. I've already said that the amount of money available for purchase is, for the time being, the logistics is working, it's clear who's supplying when it's supplying, what's the volume. Contracts are signed, the price parameters are known, so this process is running. It's about your first question. In any case, whether people get cold depends on how much the local council prepared the equipment and prepared the schools for the heating season. But on my part, I can say that the gas they consume from their boilers, or coals that can consume their boilers, is enough in the country. So if you have information that someone has no coal, no or no gas limit, please contact us. There is still a month to settle these questions. And I am convinced that we will provide the necessary supplies in full, whether it's coal or gas. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Barna Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u38	Good afternoon! In 1991 a number of teaching professions, an English - language teacher, and a psychologist were introduced into the list of preschool schools, but by the way, they were not introduced into the Cabinet of Ministers in the list of teaching professions that give rise to early retirement. So I ask that this issue of social justice and non-discrimination among teachers and educators of rural areas be addressed immediately. Second, according to the head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, Timur Chromejev, the fund over the past year and a half has gone through over 400 billion shadow funds, some of which have gone abroad. I'm asking what the Ministry of Finance is doing to get some of this money back into the economy of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. We certainly support the Commissions of Securities and Stock Markets in what they are doing now, including after clearing the market from, let's say, inequitable instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u40	Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, Block of Petra Dustenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u41	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Sergey Hlan. Sergey Chlan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u42	I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Demšin Vladimir Vasilovich. On September 4th, 2015, during the Supreme Council meeting, I asked you about the urgent solution to the coal supply problem and the granting of appropriate subsidies to consumers in the Herson region. You were given the answer that the Ministry would provide coals to the Herson region at a price of 600, a thousand and eight hundred dollars per tonne, if the district administration provided a list of relevant counterparties and warehouses. Such information was provided. I ask you to answer: Will you provide the Hersonian region with winter coals in the near future? And also, on September 4th, a parliamentary question was raised in the plenary about a possible technological one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u43	May I? As far as coal is concerned, I've already said last time that we're ready to set up, there's an opportunity in the Ministry to provide regional representations, whether it's an administration, or whether it's companies that are under local councils, coals. I warned you that please contact us with addresses, props, but it can't be "to the village, Grandpa," I need to know where to send. So during this week, there were several questions. And I have a documentary confirmation that some rajids and landowners have turned, and with them we are dealing with this issue. All those who feel that they cannot provide themselves on their own, please go to either the coal of Ukraine or the ministry, and we will definitely help. Now, on the question of price. In fact, what I'm talking about today is that the base price of energy coal is in the range of 1 thousand 100 dollars plus VAT. But this coal has some specific characteristics: the faction itself is very specific in terms of calorieity as regards sulphur. When we started getting requests from local businesses, I see that the questions go to very specific varieties of coal. It's a large fraction, it's a very low zloty, it's a lot of calories. And that kind of coal is worth a lot more in terms of technical characteristics. It's not because the market is like this, it's because quality characteristics are much better. Well, plus delivery. If you order a car to transport, the cost per tonne will be significantly higher in terms of transportation costs. So if you buy a lot of basic characteristics, you get a price of not more than 1 thousand 300, including VAT. But if you order unique characteristics, it's going to be a different price, it might be higher. But it's simple math: every percent of the slowness, or calorieity, is worth it. And these are, well, common conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u44	Cugella Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u45	Thank you. I have a question for the present Deputy Prime Minister Zubko and Minister of Energy, Mr. Demchikin. You've heard that we've shown here several times the information that Naftogazu is supplying Naftegazu gas at the price of 1900 VAT dollars, and you're selling 7188 dollars to the population. Please tell me, what is this economy and soundness of mind? What are we holding Naftogaz for at the end of the year? Do you think this pad should be cancelled? Secondly, please tell me, you didn't say anything about the export of electricity that only does a monopoly at a price less. It's cheaper than you give electricity to the population. And the third. Give your word to all your indicators that in the fall season you won't be making any fan shut-offs, and that the temperature of the building is going to be the wrong one, which is now going to be 14-15 degrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u46	I'll start with the last question about standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u47	Wait a second. The MP didn't finish the question, ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u48	For the temperature to be 18, no less. And what you're spreading right now is that it's 16-14 degrees, and people are just horribly waiting for the cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! I would like to say once again that rumors spread, first of all, national MPs with other people. Today, there is no decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to reduce the temperature from 18 to 16. Please. So I'd like to calm everyone down and stop any further announcements on this matter. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u51	I'm going to answer the electricity question after the export. Export is, indeed, there is. Today, in a separate mode from Ukraine’s energy system, Burstin Island is exported to the European Union 500 megawatts of power on a daily basis. It's about 13 to 15 million kilowatts a day. In the case of when. At this point in this region, because it's working separately, enough coal. Enough to support consumption. If we see what's going on with the coal and there's no filling it up, exports will definitely be limited. Today, this electricity is exported without any subsidies, at market price, which is higher than in Ukraine. These are economic relationships and agreements that are strictly economically appropriate for this manufacturer. Now it's about gas. Crushing gas is being extracted, and the extraction of this gas is significantly decreasing. And in order to increase profits in Ukraine and not pay money to Russians or Europeans, we need to invest in mining. That's what we're going to talk about today. But the money you need is pretty big. The cost of Ukrainian gas is far less than 500 dollars, as you're all counting, and you can talk about it in detail, in numbers. And if you have enough Ukrainian gas to consume by Ukrainian consumers, I want to tell you right now that you're not. You're forgetting that, at the tax price, thermalcommunergo gas is about 6.8 billion cubic meters for consumption today, it's high buildings, 6.8 billion, plus 14 and a half billion that are consumed by the population in Ukraine, and we're getting about 13 billion dollars, so that's not enough gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u52	Teen Leo Theophilovich, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u53	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I have a question for the Minister of Energy, of course. Thank you for your fine performance, prepared, but I have one comment. First. The success of nuclear energy, unfortunately, has no impact on free power cuts at all, since it is stable electricity, ensuring that there is no disconnection can only be hydro and thermal energy. Unfortunately, stimulating pricing, which should have been properly applied by the national commission, is not being applied properly. We see too slow a rise in heat. But we see a completely incomprehensible rise in tariffs for the skynergo, Ukrennergo, when people actually raise tariffs, and all of these costs go into the pocket of the oligarchs. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u54	I'd like to answer in general. The Ministry, along with market subjects, has prepared two laws. The Law on the Gas Market, which has been voted on, and we have prepared all the related legislation that needs to be adopted soon in order for this law to take effect from October 1st. Therefore, I ask you to uphold such a law. In addition, we have drafted the Energy Market Act. These two laws should change the fundamental relationship between electricity and gas markets. This will enable you to fight the monopolies that are in this market and reduce the influence of the oligarchs that affect these markets. So I'm asking you very much, so that you don't comment and say that someone is being compromised there, you have to go to a market relationship in energy. This can only be done in a legislative way. So please work on the laws, read them. We presented them publicly and on the committee. Support these laws, and we will change the situation in the market for both electricity and gas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Kostenko Pavel Petrovich. Kostenko gives the word Korchinsky. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u56	Dear Cabinet of Ministers! You can see the helmets now. These helmets were painted by children who had conquered cancer. These children had leukemia, lymphoma. But now there are dozens and hundreds of children in Okhmatdit who demand help. Yesterday we wondered if we could show you the real pain when you were shown the show. This kid, his name is Dima, is 10 years old. He's got a tumor. And in Ohmatdit, in the basement, there is now equipment, an accelerator that would save his life. And now we're going to have to look for over 100,000 euros to give him a chance. Dear Cabinet of Ministers, we beg you, we require you to unlock the tenders, please choose a company to. to Ohmatdit. Get it. Give these kids a chance to live. Don’t get used to it, don’t be indifferent to these children! This trouble is for all of us. There may be our children here with you. I beg you, give these children a chance to live! Give these children a chance to live! Get Ohmatdit. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u57	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u58	There's a group here for the Ohmatdit construction. I think now all deputies are ready to stand up and support all the children of the country. Unlock, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u59	Will someone please answer? Paul, 10 seconds. Really. Ten seconds, Paul Kishkar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u60	Dear friends! Dear enemies! We know about the negative effects of some national MPs on the process of choosing a company that will complete the Ohmatdit construction. I'm talking because I'm sure these people know who I'm talking about. Stop! Stop, that's not the question where you can make money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! I'd like a little bit of this story to be discovered now. And I would like to address all those who protect children first and really want to help them. I'd like two or three groups fighting for the building to win a company that through the Antimonopoly Committee is blocking the construction of this Ohmatdit. So that they can decide between themselves and think about the health of their children. And the question is not how to upgrade, but how to stop the tendering at the children’s health. And that's the question that should be addressed, first of all, by the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, next week. Next week. Turn on the microphone. The following week, the Prime Minister suggested that a round table be set up to invite all of us both to the Trustees' Council and those who built and those who spent there, billions of dollars, and those who offered to invest today, to build this structure on the basis of technology. Invite, listen to and name those who are blocking these issues through the Antimonopoly Committee today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, spores Ivan Dmitrovich, Peter Dusty Block. Turn on the microphone. You're arguing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u64	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. I ask you to pass the word to Sergio Berezenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u65	Berezenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u66	Brezenko, Petra Prashenko Block, 205th District. Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the next winter for the people of Chernigov may be the coldest in history. This is because there are serious problems in preparing for the heating season by Pat "Optolecommunergo", which provides more than half of the city with heat. It's very nice to have Mr. Demchisin and Mr. Wolf here, and I would like them to pay attention to this problem, because today they have accumulated debts and, at the expense of those debts of the preceding periods, they're constantly put into this situation when they're shut off from gas supply. This situation can get worse the next few days. So I'd like to look into the problems that have been caused, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u67	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u68	And consider the possibility of making a decision that provides for the possibility of getting gas to businesses that have no current debt. This could solve the question, or change 217 of the ruling to an inter-fire period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u69	It's very hard to say when it comes to "Heatcommunergo," why? Because we realize that it is a heat supplier in a heating season that cannot be changed by the volume of supplies. But there is a major problem. They, this thermocommunergo, have accumulated huge amounts of debt over the years before Naftogaz. The money, the gas, they didn't count for it. Debts of 33 billion, I've shown you today. I mean, there's over eight billion on the Heatcommunerge. These are huge sums. So today, when we're looking for funds to put an extra two or three billion cubic meters of gas around the world, these companies are the main troublemakers who are not exactly giving us the money to enter the heating season normally. But we realize that these problems need to be solved. Therefore, those who are to be counted to an extreme extent for current consumption and to cover their debts in 2015 will, of course, make decisions at a political level in order to resupply them with gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u71	I give the word to Sergey Anatolyevich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u72	Matweenkov, 57th District, Mariupol. I have a question for Abromavichus. Dear Mr. Minister, yesterday we observed by Parliament a situation where Parliament was friendly in supporting the restructuring of the debts that the Government of Ukraine has today. But we also know the situation. A hole in the budget is about $50 billion. We understand perfectly what, for what. Well, today the International Monetary Fund will provide some extra money. We swapped about three and a half billion, about a billion to 17 to 18, I don't know how many. But the question is, when are we going to see a specific integrated programme to replenish the income part of the budget? As we can see, we plan to raise the economy. Because ultimately what we've done is a tactical move to get away from the deflection, to get away from the edge of the abyss. How will we deal specifically with the replenishment of the income part of the budget, by which specific sectors? And a second more specific question. I asked you this question, Prime Minister for Azumash. We will eventually settle there with the leadership of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u73	Please, I'm going to give the Minister of Economics a word in terms of tools, for "Acknowledgment." Yes, you know that today the enterprise is virtually abandoned by those owners who made commitments, and there is only a labor team that is trying to do something. What the government is doing today is looking for new markets. And if you know, it's Turkmenistan that's already put forward a proposal to buy 100 tanks from the General. Please, there are still negotiations with Kazakhstan, there are negotiations with Iran. So the group that's working with the general public on the negotiation process for finding new markets is there, and if you know, you can talk to them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u74	Thank you so much for asking. A hole in the budget, of course, isn't 50 billion dollars, as you said. There's a lot less. With regard to the economic situation. The first is that the Government and the National Bank of Ukraine have engaged in this macroeconomic stabilization. During the past six months, there has been a stable national currency exchange rate. For the first time in more than three years, there has been a small and low-based growth in industrial production. In our country, deflation has already begun, and we have moved away from high inflation rates. Next thing you know, the government needs to be expected. First, to give impetus to the economy, interest rates on credit must be reduced. The fact that the deputies voted in favour of the laws on the restructuring of foreign exchange credits does not, of course, give rise to stability, is the destabilization of the macroeconomic situation. 95 billion bracelets you wanted to put on banks like banks after that. Thank God that didn't happen. We await tax reforms, including from Parliament, from the Ministry of Finance. I would like to say, therefore, that it would seem to reach a plenary agreement with the Head of the Supreme Council on 13 October, an economic day, a deregulation day where, along with Kabmin's bills, parliamentary legislation, private, public partnerships, industrial parks and a whole list of laws on deregulation will also be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u75	Thank you. And the last question from Jurik Taras Zinoviovich, "Peter Prashenka's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u76	May I give the floor to the national deputy Oleg Barna?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u77	Thank you. I'm asking you to give an answer regarding the category of pedagogical professions that have not been listed as having the right to retire, even though they have been introduced into the preschool pedagogical professions of English and pedagogical teachers. Now I'm also asking you to develop a more effective population lending programme for energy conservation. Government programs are now lending partial compensation for the cost of warming and for the replacement of boilers, but they're not very effective. So please take immediate steps to develop a program for local coal and peat crops, such as the Ternopil Forest, which will not only reduce the billions of budget costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u78	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u79	What will enable and increase jobs and create new programs, long-term loans are free of interest, which will allow the simple population to replace the combustion system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u80	It's about a list of professions. We're working with the Minosveta on this issue right now. But it should be made clear that the exclusive list of specialities that grant the right to a pension is established by valid legislation rather than by government regulation. But of course, if there's any legal possibility of doing this at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, we're going to try to do it, work on it is. Although, again, I say that the issue of retirement benefits in general or, let's say, the possibility of retirement to date may not be so relevant in view of the fact that such retirement benefits give people a much higher pension than that which could have been after retirement after a person has completed his own retirement and reaches full retirement age is 60 years for men and is now approaching 60 years for women. So the question is not simple, the question is ambiguous, we're working on it, and I think we're about to reach a decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Let's thank the government, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And we thank you for participating in the work of the Supreme Council. A successful, fruitful work for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. We ended up with an hour of questions to the government. And we have two important issues today: consideration of agenda issues, namely, the report of the working group on the basis of price increases, energy tariffs and utilities. Right now, we're going to be able to get this report with you. There are government representatives who will now take part in the government's work as Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. And so that we can have a good discussion about tariff policy. Please welcome Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Let's build our work this way: 15 minutes will be a report by the head of the working group, Alona Valeriyovna Babak. Then we have, we'll give three minutes for the performance, the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Demchisin, then the Head of the Commission of NCRE KP Wolf, the Crushing Head of Mr. Prokhorenko, and the Head of Naftogazu, Mr. Kobolev. We're going to listen in three minutes, and so we're going to take another 25 minutes to ask -- and we're going to finish this discussion if there's no objection. Let us write down the questions and ask questions, and make speeches, yes, no problem. Please, Your Honor, please, Alona Babak, 15 minutes. Please. And then there'll be a question mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u83	Dear citizens of Ukraine, the honourable Ukrainian Parliament, the honourable Cabinet of Ministers! Let me report to you on the work of the Working Group on the rationale for increasing energy prices/tariffs and utilities. This working group was created at the request of parliamentary factions and was actually created in accordance with the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council, and worked in April/April this year. The working group included members of the Main Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Committees on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Social Policy and Employment and Pensions, representatives of parliamentary factions. The working group has a significant amount of information and analysis and statistics. All this data is in the committee today at the committee secretariat, and it's a couple of huge boxes of data, reports, papers that I think anyone, if they want, can get to know. Today, I'm going to stop at not all the questions that the working group has been looking at, but only the question of gas price formation, because this is the most painful question, and I would like to draw your attention to it. The use of natural gas for the needs of the population is provided by Ukrainian legislation from the source of the natural gas of its own state-owned production of PAT Extraction and the import gas should be used for the needs of the population in the absence of its own national production. What I want to say is based on the materials that we analyzed. That the government's information on the need to use import gas for population needs was not supported. In connection with the changes in data on the incorporation and selection of the gas of its own national production in the acts of Pat "Ukrattransgaz" and NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the reasons for such decisions. There's a discrepancy between the remains of the subterranean NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and the Ukrattransgaz Pat. There are also no actual data on the arrival and distribution of natural gas in Ukraine for 2013-2014, and that is why we can't think of as reliable data that we have only the actual data in NAC Naftogazu's operational data, so they need more analysis and verification. I would like to pay particular attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the NAC Financial Reporting Indicators "Naftogaz Ukraine" last year, which are confirmed by the audience's conclusion and are freely available on the company's website. I'm quoting now. The auditors believe that “the proportion of gas in underground storage facilities of 4.9 billion cubic metres should be reflected in non-reversible assets rather than in stocks, because the amount of gas in the company that was in storage (pay attention to the storage!) underground gas reserves have not decreased below this level in recent years. The value of this asset is almost 17.6 billion dollars as of December 31, 2014. Why do I say that? For accounting and financial reporting in NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, gas was available. And he was a commodity. And also, according to the audit reports, it was used as an object of the mortgage, with company loans. At the same time, in the working group, the representatives of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine in oral explanations indicate that the practically defined amount of gas is not available for technical use. According to NAC representatives Naftogaz Ukraine, the total volume of gas is about 62 billion cubic metres in underground gas repositories, corresponding to the ratio of active and so-called buffer gas is almost 50 per 50, 24 billion cubic metres of Ukrattransgas and 4.9 cubic NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. During the working group, we did not analyze the technical capabilities of underground gas repositories to justify the ratio of buffer gas to active gas. But it should be noted that under the existing NAC regulatory base "Naftogaz Ukraine" there is no relation to buffer gas, in accordance with the NCRE Decision, buffer gas is the amount of natural gas in the reservoirs needed to maintain pressure that ensures technological integrity and efficient and safe operation of this repository. At the same time, the gas storage facility, according to Ukrainian legislation, is PAT "Ukratransgaz". Moreover, the volume of the buffer gas is constant, since there is no provision for the storage, storage or selection of the natural gas of underground storage for the storage of the buffer gas. So today we have 4.9 billion cubic meters of gas that are being treated in Naftogaz as an active gas, but we've been hearing for many years now that it's buffered, although it doesn't completely meet any criteria that would give us reason to believe that. There's also a discrepancy between the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine remains in the underground repository of the Ukrattransgaz Pat. According to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's operational information on January 1, 2014, these remains amount to 7.7 billion cubic meters, while the "Uctogaz" PATs are actually 6.3 meters cubic. At the beginning of this year, according to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, the remainder of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is 8.5 billion cubic meters. And according to Pat's "Ukratransgazu", the remainder is 7.1 meters cubic. The difference is constantly 1.4 billion cubic meters. There are other data that are shown in the tables of the current balance for 2014-15, which are contained in the report. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine's 2015 projected gas balance format, which is approved by the U.K. Department of Ministers, is also not sufficiently transparent and clear about information on the selection of gas from underground gas shelters. In particular, there's no information in this paper on gas selection of 1.8 billion cubic meters that comes out of calculations, and we don't see it in the balance sheet. We also note that in the 2015 forecast, the population is divided into two subcategories: directly the population and the heat producers for the population. Although in the balance sheet of previous years these two separate categories of consumers have always been identified separately from different sources, depending on what they receive from different sources. And I'm also drawing your attention to the fact that for the purpose of gas pricing for the population, they need to be based on the indicators of production and technological costs of gas and its loss in pipelines. Why? Because the National Commission on Electricity Control, when calculating the tariff, and this is what you now have in the reports given, Appendix 20, shows that 12.8 billion gas will be used for the population's needs, and 8.5 billion gas will be imported. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the projected gas balance, which indicates that only 10.6 billion gas will be used from the Crushing resource for the needs of the population, and the rest actually became production and technology costs and losses. So we have to find out right now whether it's a gas that's actually in place for the needs of the population, whether it's lost. I also want to point out that overall in the Ukrainian system, these manufacturing and technology costs and losses are from the volume of gas produced and imported about 8.8 percent, that was in 2013, and it decreased to 7.3 in 2015. Also part of the manufacturing and technology costs are the costs of the UKKNAFTA PAT in terms of 338 million cubic metres for the manufacture of ammonia, which should be directed to the needs of the population, but under the proper legislation, which could be improved. Now I want to look at the structure of the price of gas for the population. Please show the first slide. Now here's an extract from the National Commission's methodology, which tells us what's involved in determining the price of gas. You can actually see that there is, directly, the average price of natural gas as a commodity, Naftogazu spending, the target allowance, the transport tariff, the shipping tariff, the supply tariff, the value added tax -- and that's all. It also takes into account the estimated annual consumption of natural gas to the population. I'm paying attention! Established by the estimated annual balance of arrival and distribution of natural gas in Ukraine. It is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'll tell you why it's important. Please use the next slide. This is the table that was given to the National Committee on Electricity Control's working group, which shows us the actual price structure for the population and the heating companies. Prices of cutting gas. You can see that the gas itself is in the structure of this price of 5,000 41 bracelets in the inter-heating season and in the heating season at a social standard of 2,000 166 and 8 bracelets. For heating companies, the price of gas is 1 thousand 803 bracelets. We actually have a population of almost 50 by 50 in Ukraine, in apartment buildings and in private buildings. Those who live in a private building pay for a heating season of 2,166, in a non-flammable season of 5,41. In fact, those who live in apartment buildings pay only 1.803 for centralized heating. This creates negative prerequisites for the development of alternative energy based on central heating, water supply. Why the National Commission chose this approach, there is no explanation. Now let's look at this price that we're talking about -- 2 thousand, 5,000, 1 thousand, 800, that's what it's made of. Look, please, at this price, the rent on the sale price of Crushing is 22 percent, the cost of Naftogazu is 69 percent, and the price of the gas itself for Crushing is 10 percent. Next, the next slide. That's even more impressive information. If we factor out the whole price structure, the fractional price of gas for the population as a percentage. 40 percent of this price is the cost of Naftogazu, which they have to finance their activities as well as the purchase of imported gas; 39 percent is taxes, it's VAT, it's a target allowance, it's a rent; 5 percent is just UKtransgas for gas transport, and 8 percent is for distribution and supply today; and 8 percent is the price of gas for our own production of PAT "The Crushing". I want to pay attention to the point. I want to draw your attention to what's actually happening. Can we go back? Today, we're talking about a certain opacity of formations and gas prices, because you and I see that those 40 percent in the structure of the price of gas that gets the Naftogaz of Ukraine, they have to finance, as they said, imports, which depends on how much we have to buy and whether there will be enough costs, or whether there will be a deficit, and also their costs of Naftogazu. And so do I. And we know with you that we have in our budget this year, on the basis of the exchange of our own shares in an additional mission on the government's domestic loan bond, Naftogaz Ukraine has, in accordance with article 19 of the Law on the State Budget, to receive 31 billion dollars, as well as part of the difference in tariffs for heat-supply enterprises. So we would like to see that the issue of the credibility or deficit of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to cover the difference in prices for imported gas to produce heat for the population at the expense of the income of this margin that I showed was checked by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm also on the next slide to show you that it was an extremely big problem for us to figure out the reliability of the data we got. We actually got three sources of information on gas volumes. This is Naftogazu, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, and the data of the NCRE Company. You can see that Naftogazu and the Cabinet of Ministers are different because there is no practice of approving the actual gas balance in Ukraine at the end of the financial year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u84	Please, how much time does it take? Five Minutes Enough? Yes, please finish for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I understand that not everyone is now taking the same amount as it is, but I'll try to tell you what the problem is. Look at the last line on this slide. The National Commission calculated the price of gas on the basis that the population of Ukraine would consume 14.5 billion gas in 2015. So literally after the decision is made, the National Commission will issue a Cabinet order that is approved, and you can see that the population is going to consume 14 billion gas, that is, half a billion dollars less than the National Commission's budget. Next, we got two numbers from Naftogazu in the working group for this year: 13.3 billion cubes and 14 billion. When they gave us the data 13.3 I said, where does 13.3, the Cabin show 14. They said, uh, we're going to give you another number right now is 14. But all this data was given. And you're going to have to forgive that completely different indicators are shown by the amount of gas that needs to be bought abroad. In one case we have 2.6 billion, in the other we have 3.3. Moreover, the total amount of gas balance that showed us that it would need the population and the heat energy that Nazcomisi showed would be 21.3 billion cubic meters, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine showed a different number -- 20.8 billion cubic metres of gas. Where's the truth? What's the point? At the end of the day, how much gas will the population of Ukraine need? How much do we have to buy import gas? During the work group, we never received any agreed information on this issue. Moreover, according to the first quarter of 2015, the population consumed 10 percent less gas than even the Cabinet of Ministers showed. Gas consumption rates have decreased from 6 cubes to 3, we haven't seen any correction of gas volumes for population needs. Minister Demchishin has just reported that in fact 20 percent of gas consumption has been reduced. Why is there no tariff review in line with the actual consumption of gas and the need for import gas? Dear colleagues, as representatives of the working group today, we insist that the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Municipal Services as an arbitrator between all participants in this gas market be made available: between the population, among producers, between gases - today and give us clear information on whether it is necessary to review the tariff today for gas or not, how much the population needs gas, which is the source of information, and why we can trust. Because, unfortunately, all the information that we have analyzed does not give us the opportunity to report to the people of Ukraine with certainty today, that the data is confirmed and that they can be trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Then let us speak from the factions, of course, was rightly said. Sign up for three minutes by factions and groups. Three, as usual. factions and groups of three minutes. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we need to discuss this issue from all sides. Yes, the Radical Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko will perform third, and the fourth will be Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I'd like to make a presentation today. pay attention to the Minister of Economy's speech: if so much attention were given to privatization, job creation, investment in the country, creating attractive conditions. So we say privatization needs to be done as soon as possible, and this will solve our question, 17 billion dollars will give us. First of all, what successful country in the world sees privatization as a way of filling the budget? But privatization is a way of finding a more efficient owner, one that gives more taxes, more jobs that invests those costs that are not in the state. And if the enterprise works ineffectively, because management is ineffective there, it's just that management needs to change, take it out at a real open competition, show the managers the demands to them, show them publicly, conduct these competitions publicly, under the cameras, record them. Let's see what part of government property in Ukraine? Do you know the contribution of state-owned enterprises to Ukraine's GDP? I'll tell you: 10 percent. Do you know which one is in Europe, in the OECD countries? I'll tell you: 15 percent. So maybe the main task is not to sell out everything we have, but, firstly, to organize clear control and analysis of what we have? I asked the Ministry of Economics about the performance indicators of those enterprises that are proposed to be excluded from privatization, a thousand 238, or how many of those enterprises. You know how many enterprises don't have financial reporting at all, I'm not talking about a development strategy anymore? You know, 804. So you have the answer to the question that before you offer something to Parliament to sell, you have to figure out what it is. Second, we need to see where the state can change management and provide an effective owner. And where it can't, where it needs a strategic investor, where it needs an exit to foreign markets and so on, and so forth, there's definitely a privatisation to be done. And the Radical Party faction is in favour of privatization, but privatization is economically justified, privatization of transparency, privatization in the interests of the country, because it is our interests with you to have more taxes on the state budget to ensure higher employment. Where does the analysis of the efficiency of existing enterprises, besides the largest 50? Where, though, is the analysis of the effectiveness of the impact on employment? Where, though, is the analysis of the implementation of investment commitments? So, dear fellows, it would be better with such a rush to privatize, to create attractive investment conditions so that Ukrainian investors don't run abroad and that other foreign people come to Ukraine, so that Ukraine can turn into a real manufacturing site in Europe, so that we can create jobs in ourselves so that the unemployment that is, is, a million 700,000 people, is a record to solve this problem today together. And this is an extremely important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u88	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u89	The question of economic strategy, the existence of a country's socio-economic development programme, not just the concept of some five-page knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Borislav Solomonovich Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u91	Dear friends, dear colleagues, the Ukrainian people! Today, many questions are raised in society about tariffs. And I agree that we should lower them, and we should lower them. But what should we do about it? We're in the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, and the Committee on Social Affairs, and we have a lot to talk about. And most of all, I just want everyone to hear that the most important thing to do in the country today is a massive energy-efficient revolution that will allow us to do everything we can today to reduce the amount of gas consumption. [[Applause]] I want to remind you of the numbers again. In 25 years of independence, Poland -- the country we are so oriented towards -- has almost doubled its consumption of gas. They're spending only 18 and a half billion cubes on their entire economy today, as well as housing and utilities. Ukraine has, unfortunately, reduced only 10 billion cubic metres of gas over the years, from 56th to 47th. And today we can't keep living like this and say that we have to work in damage today, our utilities have to work. We have to do everything we can to fill our jobs in order to fill our local budgets, create opportunities for our businesses to work. And on account of that, I repeat, only that we're going to repair our utility fund, because we're going to do everything we can to consume less gas and energy, we can lower tariffs. This is the only way of our country. Without it, all we're going to say is worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u92	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u93	You know, honourable colleagues, who in Parliament and, in principle, in society have long debated whether the price of gas based on gas for people has been put out by the government and the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory. Today, we have heard a report from the Working Group of the Supreme Council on the soundness of gas prices and, as a result, heat tariffs. I want to thank the head of the self-help task force, this is Olena Babak, and everyone who worked in this task force. [[Congrats]] Because every number is professionally and clearly analyzed. The main conclusion made by the head of the working group at the beginning of his report is that the need to use imported natural gas for the needs of the population is not confirmed. In other words, enough Ukrainian gas. And this is a key issue in setting gas prices for the population and, as a result, heat tariffs. Because whether enough Ukrainian gas depends on the price of gas for the people of 7,188, will it be the way that this gas is sold today by the state-owned enterprise sells NAC Naftogazu with taxes on added value of 1,900 dollars. You feel the difference. And so I would also like to quote from the report of the working group an article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which clearly states that the sale of all the natural gas produced on the basis of special permits for the use of nadrama within the territory of Ukraine, i.e. Ukrainian gas. It is used to form a natural gas resource for the needs of the population. It's not optional. This is a rule of law that is bound by the government and the National Commission for Electricity Regulation. In other words, it is calculated that 16.2 billion cubic metres of gas should be directed to the population, and that the real government gives only 10.6 million cubic metres of gas. That's where corruption is! 5.6 billion cubic meters of gas are not devoted to the Ukrainian population, but rather to the imported one. And that's what people pay for instead of 1900 7188. Crime claims have been filed with the Attorney General's Office for corruption, the charges have to be brought to account, and the gas to the population has to be installed at 1900 without NAC Naftogazu, directly at Crushing and Skrnafti. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u94	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u95	If this is not done, all officials involved in the use of Ukrainian gas on a corrupt basis must be brought to criminal liability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u97	Guys, I want to say more globally. I want to offer everyone a simple, brilliant solution to how we can get out of this situation of everything that's happened in the state and live a happy and rich life, figuratively, literally from tomorrow. See what the problem is. Imagine you want to build a house, hire the best brigade, but they said, "I don't want to make money to strangers, I want to make money to my own. So take my family and friends to your team. You know, despite the fact that they have good guys, their hands are like that, and they've never worked in these jobs. Clearly, the good of such a structure will not be, will be complete chaos, will be very slow and will not be quality work. Similarly, friends, the Ukrainian Parliament did the same thing with Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk when he failed to raise himself a team of the best experts in Ukraine, and imposed on him, according to his political quotas, some politicians who were not even experts at all, and obliged him to build up and save the state with these, sometimes very vulnerable politicians. It is enough just to give up this shameful practice, enough just to give Arsenija Petrovich the will to dissolve this Kabmin, leaving those among them who he think are the most worthy, and to recruit new really experts for whom he will be responsible for the head, in which he is convinced by all one hundred percent. And I guarantee you, my friends, everything will immediately come to life, and blossom, and turn green. Do not listen to those false prophets who spend his mornings, not for the good of the Ukrainian people, but only to take his place. But it won't do any good. To my personal conviction, our economy in the state of this war has endured without thanks to Parliament. And not even thanks to Kabmin, but thanks exclusively to the genius Arsenius Petrovich. It was he who composed, he created and assembled this mechanism, the clock mechanism of our economy, which allowed us to endure. That's his idea. And those false prophets are only able to say, populism statements. "And the wheels in this mechanism are too big, or too small, and let's change it," -- not even imagining whether the wheel will fit into this mechanism or not. I'll tell you what, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u98	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u99	I gas, be his will, and he will decide without CAT, without anyone. You can call on an international audience and put order in this area too. Thank you. And what's more, postscriptum, Arsenius Petrovich is Putin's personal enemy. And I like it better. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u100	Thank you. The factions of the groups ended the performances, the honourable colleagues. Please, Minister of Energy. Let's build it this way, colleagues: 3 minutes of the performance, 5 minutes of the question. Do you have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] . I'm continuing the meeting. Please give me three minutes, five minutes, to ask. Sign up, ask questions. And so to everyone. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, three minutes, really, very little to analyze. But what I want to tell you right now is that Mrs. Babak and I spent quite a lot of time discussing her issues by providing materials, auditory reports. Moreover, most of you have seen the report of the Great Four on tariffs, calculation methods, and calculations. And they're still talking about that the calculations are right. So before I go into the detail, right now I want to say that actually, the answer is one. There is currently no basis for viewing. Of course, I'm going to look at what conditions this view is possible, but at this point the calculations are correct. I agree, by the way, with Julia Volodymyrna, when she says that our energy, our gas sector is monopolized, and we need to go directly to consumer-producer contracts. We prepared a new law, and it was voted. Today, we are ready to make changes to other laws that can allow this law to enter into force. So, colleagues, you have the opportunity from October 1st to start a new life in the gas sector. Change the rules, the relationship between subjects. So vote in favour of this law. I hope he's still going to be looking into it today. Now it's about the numbers. We've seen that there are numbers, they don't fight, they don't match. Of course, when there is a fact and when there is a plan, the numbers cannot match. When you say that some questions have not been studied, well, I'm sorry, we've given all the information we could. That's why. And it's available. So all the questions could be clarified. In fact, there are not many questions. It's all about three numbers. It's the volume of extracting "The Crushing," import, and consumption that goes. That's two digits. And consumption that goes on the population in the form of gas, and gas that's consumed by heatcommunerge. So 4 values. And we understand from these four volumes that unfortunately, as we said today, because of the inefficiency of our consumption, there's not enough gas that we can use in Ukraine to extract and consume it for the population. So 8 billion, 8 billion cubic gas to secure the population we're buying in the Russians, we're paying them today for two hundred sixty, there, eighty dollars at the price of the contract, 240 we're unfortunately not buying yet. If the price goes down further and we can still negotiate that we've already started, and we can still convince Gazprom that the market price isn't 270 or 280, and it's still less than 230 dollars that it's really going to be able to talk about something, because it's going to be basic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u102	Thank you, Minister. Five minutes to ask. Please prepare, we will ask questions, and in the context of the answers. Minister, are you in the rostrum? Please, five minutes, if that's not your theme, you'll say. That's not your theme. Five minutes, please. Sign up, colleagues, for a question. Vladimir Parasuk. Vladimir Parasuk, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u103	I, I have such a little question about my district. I was on my own in Zovkowščina, and now we have an investor in one of the rural councils who found coked coal. I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that they invited the coal companies to check this coal and have long submitted to your Ministry to confirm and grant permission to mine it. With everything that the people who put money into this business personally told me that you don't believe there's coked coal in Western Ukraine. I don't want to ask you questions, I want to tell you that the worst thing for the coal sector is you and it's time to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u104	Regarding coal in Western Ukraine. What I'm saying is that, really, Love Cole is a company that has reserves taken away, and it can acquire. But to get this coal, you have to invest a billion dollars in the U.S. The owners of this license do not have such funds. The Ministry doesn't have that kind of money either. What's more, right now we're only dealing with gas coals, and metallurgical coal, coke coal, is the private sector. So if a private owner of this license has the money and the desire to extract it, we just contribute to it anyway. But if he wants us to give him some government support, give him money from the budget, give him some tax benefits, others, well. And as for the coal industry, I have repeatedly said that the main problem is that there is no funding for mining. This year’s mining declined by more than 30 percent. Reducing the volume has a negative impact on cost. So without the money that can be invested in mines, in the modernization of equipment, in the restocking, in the preparation of lava for mining, there is no prospect. So without spending on the coal industry, it's not viable. So, colleagues, this is also a question for you. Please understand that these are 52,000 workers and their families in various parts of Ukraine in the eastern and western regions to be supported. We've been going through this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u105	That's right. Because this year, zero funds are being allocated to support. No subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u106	Thank you for your answer. Who wrote it down next? Gregory Nemira and Rybchin will be John Krulko. Please, two minutes, Ivan Krulko. Because two questions per minute. Please, Ivan Krulko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u107	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Secretary, we listened very carefully to a colleague from another faction who said that all ministers were preventing Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich from working, and I would like you to comment and answer Arsenius Petrovich's question. I'll try to turn it on now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u108	Naftogaza. He probably didn't tell you the whole truth. He's talking about raising tariffs. And let him tell the truth that each one of you should receive the gas of Ukrainian production. Because the population of Ukraine consumes 18 billion cubic meters of gas, and we get 20 billion cubic meters of gas. We are a very rich country. The government is really stupid, and the country is rich and the people are smart. [[Applause]] The gas must, every citizen of Ukraine must receive this so-called gas of their own production. Its cost today ranges from $70 to $100, depending on where it is extracted. It's not 100, it's not 200, it's not 300, it's not $500. It's $70 of its own Ukrainian gas. But this gas is not given to you. This gas is sold on their industrial enterprises for $300 - 400, and the margin is placed in their pockets. And then this margin is sent, by the way, to the National Bank, it's not our data. We take statistics and read.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u109	And so on and so forth. But the question is. Please tell me, if Ukrainian gas, as the Prime Minister says, is sufficient for its own production, and now we know that it is being used at least 14 billion cubic meters. Please tell me why, first of all, the Ukrainians don't get gas directly, but they do need this middleman in the form of Naftogazu, a completely inefficient state-owned enterprise. And the second. When will the Ukrainians finally get an honest and fair price for gas, which is going to be 1,000 dollars?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u110	First of all, 1 thousand 900 dollars is without the cost of transportation, without the other taxes that you've forgotten. No price. No, check it out. No price. So there's no point in talking about it. The second question. Volume of consumption. You've forgotten about the heat utility, which also consumes gas at a tax price. This is the price of less than 3,000 dollars. So the total population consumption is over 21 billion cubic meters, and it's less than 13 billion cubic meters. Therefore, the difference between these 8 billion is to be replaced by expensive imported gas. Of course, there are two simple decisions. It's an increase in wealth, but to do that, it takes more money to spend on gas, so that it can drill and supply us with its gas, pay taxes, give our local people a job instead of paying money to Russians or Europeans. It's an obvious question, consistent, but at the moment, the balance is like this. So the decrease in consumption, on the one hand, and the increase in local gas production will change the situation in this market, and will balance the cost of gas for the population accordingly. We hope, of course, that we will still be able to reduce the import gas, the cost of the imported gas both in volume and in price. But to do that, you have to go through the heating season, and as a result of the heating season, I'm pretty sure you can do the recalculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u111	Thank you. My colleagues, we still have a lot of speakers. After each speaker, it will be possible to ask questions for five minutes. Please take your seats, Mr. Minister. We have the next chairman of the NCREKP Wolf Commission. Please come to the rostrum. Three minutes, and then five minutes, questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u112	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Attendings, Honorable Leader of the Supreme Council! I want to tell you briefly about the set tariffs, why they were like that before, why they're like that now. Everybody knows that tariffs haven't risen in a long time, it was a political taboo. Since the country’s previous leadership played with the people, tariffs were low. All of this has resulted in all of our networks being worn out, huge losses, and we're still using the legacy that's left of the Soviet Union of that infrastructure. In the end. At the end of the day, consumers still pay the real cost of these services because compensation goes to NAC Naftogaz, they pay the excess costs. So the only effective solution that was enshrined in the coalition agreement was to level energy prices, gradually, incrementally, with the introduction of targeted subsidies to unprotected populations. The National Commission is moving in this context. We decided to step up, in five stages, the price of electricity. The effect on consumers is quite small: 60 percent of the population consumes 150 kilowatts, and the effect on their accounts is only 17 dollars a month. Second, on a gas issue. The prices set by the commission are determined by the input data received from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from NAC Naftogazu Ukraine. Since these prices were installed, we've heard a lot of criticism, part of it has been politicized. In order to remove all these questions, we had a verified calculation of natural gas prices for the needs of the population and this calculation was confirmed by four leading audit companies. [[B in m in s a l in]] These companies have been fully confirmed. These companies fully confirmed the calculation made by the NCRECR. If we get the other data we need to calculate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u113	Please listen to me carefully. If we get other data on the gas balance or the cost of the gas that would have to be recommended to the minister, of course we're going to count these prices. It's worth noting that in the first quarter, the price of imported gas was over $370, and now it's about 250 or even less if an agreement is reached. Therefore, the National Commission should be impartial, calculating prices exclusively on economic factors. And these factors are now defined in the existing pricing paradigm by two factors: the first is the gas balance, the second is the gas price, and they are in turn the price of Crushing and import prices. The price of Crushing, if you want to increase the production of Ukrainian gas, has to be even higher, at Russian price, the price is reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u114	Ten seconds, complete. Then let's go to the questions. Sign up and ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u115	What's more, it's worth noting that the IMF, the World Bank, all of our actions support and confirm the direction in which we move and endorse the step-by-step increase in energy prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u116	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Five minutes, on the question, respectable colleagues. Please get ready to log in. Wojciekhovska Svetlana Mikhailnovna, then Alexander Kuzel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u117	Assyu, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u118	People's deputy Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u119	Good afternoon! Goose, 19th district. I'm here to see Mr. Demchikin and Mr. Wolf. First. I already said, Vladimir Vasilovich, pack your things, go to Novovolinsk to the miners. The rebellion matures, there's no clarity, the money doesn't come to the tenth mine, the first nine closes or not -- it's not clear. I ask you to go to Novovolinsk immediately on Monday and explain to the miners, have a conversation with them. And the second. I live in Lutsk. There's no hot water for six months. Some, if you'll excuse me, Muggles say, "Wolingaz" is blocking, "Naftogaz" of Colomoysky is blocking, "A six-year-old city of Lutsk without hot water." I ask you, Mr. Wolf, you, Demchisin and others, to intervene in the situation. Lutsk must have hot water. Please do it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Stop time, that was not a question. Then, I think we'll have a chance. Mr. Wolf, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u121	Ready to answer your question. The National Commission will, of course, intervene, wait for your request, it's just announced. We're going to intervene, and we're going to figure out the reasons why Lucteplemersi's debt was what was the effect of Obalgasus, which was what was the effect of Naftogazu. If there's been a violation, we'll remove it immediately. And the city of Lutsk must be provided with hot water and heating in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u122	On Thursday, I am addressing the Minister and the Head of NCRE KP on Thursday to inform the National MP about the real state of affairs by Thursday. And I'd like the National MP to know if that's going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to record this now and do it. Thank you. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Please tell me, how are you going to react? You know, there's already a court ruling that your decision after the approval of the electricity tariffs is illegal, confirming what I'm saying for six months. Because the existence of your commission is illegal, and so is the approval and tariff on gas. And I want to tell you how you counted the cost, what you call reasonableness, and you're covering up for the audience. I had a conversation myself, they didn't confirm the price of gas, they only tested your methodology and according to your methodology or those figures. The numbers didn't even check, methodological calculations. I want to tell you, how did you get in violation of the Law on the Gas Market, that all Ukrainian gas should go to the population (10 articles), and how did you count when you took gas from the Ukrainian producer at 1900 and counted it at 7,000? You were covering up the Naftogazu pad. You've been covering up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u124	On the first question, we strongly disagree, we appeal. Our decision is faithful, and we will stand up for it. On the second question. The auditors confirmed the full operation of the National Commission and the accounts. About the gas balance. It is not supplied by NCRE, and as soon as we get it changed, we will definitely count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Valérie Lunchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u127	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u128	Good afternoon! As everyone knows, you are the head of an independent body who is not accountable to the government and is appointed President himself. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Do you know how much the state of Ukraine overpaid gas after concluding all known agreements in 2009 to the aggressor country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u129	According to the estimates we got from market participants, we didn't do it ourselves, it's about $27 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u130	Thank you for your answer. Please, next question is last, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Taking advantage of the opportunity that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenij Yatzenuk, is present in Parliament, I am addressing him. Mr. Prime Minister, I have just reported on the situation in the Chamber of Parliament concerning the housing and utility economy of Minister of Energy Demchisin. I have repeatedly addressed you both in public and in private meetings on corruption, which is now flourishing in the Ministry of Energy, on the policy of destroying its own coal energy sector, run by Minister of Energy Demchisin. I am addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, because we are entering the winter, from a totally unregulated situation on the market, with the danger of massive disconnection of Ukrainian citizens' homes, due to a carbon deficit, due to a power deficit, we are purchasing Russian electricity and coal. I demand that you submit to Parliament for the resignation of Minister of Energy of Demchikin for corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u132	That was no question to Mr. Wolfe. Okay, thanks. Question time is over. Please take your seats. "The Crushing Man" Prokhorenko. Please, three minutes, and five minutes, for questions and answers. Please come to the rostrum. Colleagues, three minutes of talk, then five minutes, please log in, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Oleg Prokhorenko, Crushing Company. It is very nice to go to Parliament and explain a few figures. Because it was my job to come to Crushing as a new leader and to ensure transparency and honesty and openness of the company. I want to explain a little bit by the basic numbers so there's no abuse on this topic. This year's Crushing is about 14 and a half billion cubic metres of gas, but please consider that 1.2 billion of this gas is the gas that's been extracted from joint venture contracts over the last 15 years. Now it's 1.2, it's planned for this year 1.5. So they've already reduced the mining. In the past, this figure was 2 billion. So Crushing was the source of drilling for joint ventures. We all know what schemes were used in this. That is, if Parliament believes that the population should receive gas from Ukrainian production, please take decisions on joint agreements. Next, from that gas we're extracting, we're using about 500 million cubes for technical purposes. What is it? This is primarily the work of pressure compressors. Without pressure compressors, we're not going to have gas. I'll remind you, there are a lot of people here who have something to do with gas production now or in the past. Our Shebelin lineage, a legendary pedigree, is 86 percent of the gas in this genera passes through pressure compressor stations. If we don't continue to build these stations in the future, we're going to lose gas, that's a fact. It's at the price. Today we get 1590 dollars without VAT for our gas. But that's not enough, because at this price, the output is going to fall. This price does not even fully cover the operating costs needed to support the existing wells fund. To ensure that production is maintained at the level of 14 and a half billion cubes this year, the price is at least 3,100 dollars per thousand cubes. This price will take into account the investments that need to be made next year and in the coming years for drilling new drills, for search jobs, for seismic work, for building new pressure compresses.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u134	Ten seconds, complete. And please prepare for the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u135	New methods that private companies are already using, but unfortunately we can't because we don't have enough money, like the hydrolysis of layers, other methods of intensification.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Please, Paul Kishkar. Paul Kishkar, please. Oh, a card. Please, Paul Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u137	Thank you. Actually, I'd be happy if you could come up with your presentation next time. What you just said takes place and can be confirmed properly and presented. The question of using new technologies at these compressor stations, I know that Ukrainian technology is using the heat generated by the compression process. Is he using this system now? Are you planning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u138	Thank you. What I'm saying is that the technology of rainwater, pressure compressors is not new technology. It's been used for over 20 to 30 years. But that's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u139	Heat selection. Yeah, it's a heat resertation. Yes. This is one of the directions we're looking at to improve operating costs. But it needs investment losses again. investment investments. And so you're absolutely right. Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u140	Please, National Deputy Alexius White.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u141	I have a more pressing question for the head of NCRE. Right now, we haven't been able to log in, but that's the question. Here you are when you were talking about fixing, there, tariffs and gas, and electricity. And you're going to tell me, and how do you look at the cost of the loss that you're writing down again, the tariff bed, that's all, and so on the population? How do you deal with the same suppliers and electricity and water and gas and stuff? Be good, I actually think that my statement is considered a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Then I suggest you don't waste your time, if there's a parliamentary request, you get an answer. Okay? Thank you. Please prepare this as an official request and an answer. Please, next Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Julia Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u144	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u145	Well, I want, first of all, to ask you, with what profit, the official balance sheet at such gas prices as you get, the Crushing ended, first of all, 2014, and second of all, the first half of 2015, the balance sheet profit at the prices that are today? And the others. I think you should know that article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market clearly says that, including the combined gas, it's for the population because it's all written down here. So for the population, you have to send out all the 14 billion that you're extracting and plus the Cronaft, because also under the Gas Market Act, you have to give that gas. So I would just like to be clear about the profit and not say that this price is too low.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u146	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Financial results are being audited by 2014. Now this report, it's prepared, it's going through final reconciliation. The number is still unpublished. No, it's not. Look. The number is several, since it was originally in Ukrainian standards, then a report on international standards was prepared. By international standards, 300 million dollars by 2014. But without it, it didn't allow you to invest in the new production. If we don't invest, we're going to lose two billion cubes next year. The number could be any number. But if there's no investment, we're going to lose gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Perhaps a clarifying question? Please, Julia Volodymyr, clarifying question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u149	You, as head of the state-owned enterprise, are obliged to know two key figures. If you don't know them, you're just not the leader of this structure. The first number is accounting. Not an international report, not any other report, but an accounting profit, a business balance sheet for 2014 and a half year 2015. If you don't know, then I'll name it. And it's enough to invest. And don't forget to tell me what kind of casts you're going to get and what kind of prices you're buying material and technical resources for. That corruption reaches 50 percent. And all of this you put in the cost of gas. Stop stealing. Stop overestimating the cost of material and technical resources. Today, stop putting Ukrainian gas on the left instead of betraying the people. And then you're not just going to have profit, you're going to have profit that's enough to finance development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u150	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u151	I want to remind the audience that, first of all, the work is about cost savings for material and technical resources. It's such a tricky fucking job. We've already saved a lot of resources for the company that we use for manufacturing. But I'm going to remind you of a few figures that might not be understood. World oil prices have dropped by 25 to 30 percent for our oil products and scrapped gas. It's money that the company actually used for manufacturing purposes. The numbers you call are not exactly true, that's 50 percent not. We're going to analyze now, and we're doing a very brief analysis of this. I'm calling. After 2014. So Ukrainian reporting showed 1.4 billion dollars. But the international report on international standards was much less because we were forced to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u152	Thank you for your answer. Please take your place. Mr. Kobolev, the head of NAC "Naphogaz" is invited to the presentation. Andrew Kobolev, please, three minutes for the performance and five minutes for the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u153	Good afternoon! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'd like to start with the question of damages that have just been asked by honourable deputies. Naftogaz, in addition to auditing as an individual legal person, conducted audits of the entire group, which includes Crushing, which includes "Transgas" and all companies. This audit I have now with me will be presented to the deputies, it is consolidated and confirmed by the Great Four. Company losses over the past year amounted to 88 billion dollars. The main reason for this loss is the overpriced cost of imported gas, which Naftogaz has been forced to import from Russia. Now, as far as where the difference goes, why do you need Naftogaz and why? We've passed it on and we can pass it on again, and so it's going to be reflected in this report. What will be the damage to Naftogaz from providing gas to the population in the current year? At the minimum, if we take into account that the population needs 12.8 billion cubic meters of self-produced gas, everything else is covered by imported gas. Based on the average price of imported gas, which we think is the most optimistic, because NCRE requires us to keep this price down, 250 dollars per 1,000 cubic meters, the total loss of Naftogazu in 2015 is going to be 6 billion dollars. So 6 billion Naftogaz is going to compensate from other sources for keeping that price of gas for the population that is foreseen by the new NCRE. And for a second, without VAT, the average price at which Naftogaz sells gas to the population, given the population, and the heat utility, and that's the same thing, is a little more than three thousand dollars. I know that there is some manipulation of facts in Parliament. For example, acts between Naftogaz and Crucifixion. In fact, it's the lowest price of gas that's in our balance sheet. But you also have to show other acts, this is the January of this year act, between Naftogaz and Gazprom, which clearly states that the contract price for the gas contract is 435 whole 68 cents per thousand cubic meters. It's in dollars. $435! So when we talk about the cost of gas supplied to the population, we have to look at the gas of our own production and the gas imported. And here's his real contract price, which was reduced by the talks, thanks to the efforts of both the government and the ministry, by $100. Nevertheless, such a price also exists. So we need to talk about all the acts at once. As for imported gas, I don't agree with the statement that all the gas or gas of its own production, that all the gas of its own production under the Ukrainian Act of Action has the right or obligation to give Naftogaz to the population. And we've proposed to the Supreme Council, and we've proposed to the MPs repeatedly that if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u154	Shall we add three more minutes to the show? Please, three more minutes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u155	Thank you. What if there's such a desire, there's going to be changes to this law, and then there's going to be an opportunity to give gas to the SD, which is a kind of reprisal, but if there is, with the pleasure of Naftogaz, it will. Now, too, the questions raised in the report presented by Mrs. Babak. We understand that gas balance is a difficult thing, we understand a lot of numbers, we understand that there are predictive numbers and there are actual numbers. We think it's the most correct in this situation, because the methodology and the price calculation mechanism themselves were confirmed by the auditors who conducted the audit of the decision of the NCRE, and we ourselves had a full audit of the entire Naftogazu group with the involvement of an international auditor. It answers all the questions: buffer gas, gas consumption, gas surpluses, and cost. We offered to use the figures in this report for objectivity, for expertise, and for independence. This report will also be submitted to Parliament, it has been completed recently, it is an expert and it will greatly help shed light on issues that have remained unclear. In particular, I would like to say my personal opinion on the adequacy of gas tariffs. It is important to understand that it is this government that has offered a genuine European, sound mechanism that provides for the protection of the poorest population through the subsidy, aid and subsidies mechanism. And now these high tariffs, they're only a problem for people who use a lot of gas and who are rich. That is why this decision is the only one, European and just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, five minutes, Your Honor. One minute, please, Alona Babak's lineup and then three minutes to question. Please sign up. Please be prepared. Five minutes, five minutes. Please prepare for entry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, as a lineup, you said you would give an audit opinion to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It'll be very good, we'll analyze it. But in the state there are 600 employees who have to work for all consumers, producers and the state -- this is the National Commission for Energy Market Regulation, utilities. It is she who should make the assessment and tell whether there is a need to change tariffs or not. This should not be done by the deputies, nor should we tell you that you can get to know each other and that we have given you something. Big request: The Nazis are starting to work on the market, on all the participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, five minutes for the show. Please register, sign up, colleagues, ask questions, excuse me, ask questions. Please, Alexander Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u159	I'm sorry, Mr. Naftogazu's head. Tell me, how about we warm up the country house today, where the fastest boiler still stands, a hundred cubes of gas a month in the cold winter? And you're saying that today prices, new prices, will only affect the rich. And the rest of the population, how are you going to heat up? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u160	Thank you for asking. I'm going to ask you a few questions right now. 200 cubic meters will be passed each month at a positive price that roughly corresponds to the average consumption level of this particular house you're talking about. This is the first time. Second, how to burn for those who don't have money even for these 200 cubes, and we also understand that there are a lot of people like that. It's a government grant, and every family's money will be specifically compensated, which will allow it to burn if income doesn't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u162	Good afternoon. Today, in the report, we heard complaints that the government was giving other figures, different from the numbers that the parliamentarians had. Please tell me, was there an international audit of these tariffs and your companies? And call the companies that ran them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u163	The tariff audit was conducted by all Big Four companies, as far as we know. The Naftogazu Audit, which allows us to make sure that all the output is correct, and so do all the companies that join the Naftogaz Group, this is the Crushing Company, this is the Ukrattransgas, an international company called Deloitt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Kobolev, the media is aware that you have recently returned from negotiations with Gazprom. I understand that they were quite successful. I'd like you to give us a little bit of information and tell us how much the position of the Russian Federation has changed after the right policy being pursued by both Naftogaz Ukraine and the government, with regard to the diversification of gas supply to Ukraine's market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u166	Since these negotiations have not yet been concluded by signing a contract that we hope to make in the near future, I cannot talk about the final figures that have been proposed. I can say that the diversification of supply sources has been very positive in the position of our Russian partners, who have started to offer other approaches, and more market prices, and they are now much more flexible in their relationship with Ukraine as a consumer. We were again viewed as a commercial market. We hope this will continue. And we're looking forward to trying to sign a new agreement by the end of September that will allow us to bring the non-market price of an old contract with Gazprom to the maximum market level.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u169	Victor Krivenko, please. Please, talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u170	In fact, you have an achievement. Diversification, but I wanted to support Alona Babak in her report and say she's absolutely right about the audience. We remember how your audience counted the cost of Ukrainian gas at $319. Remember how a year ago that figure was protected, and then it was embarrassing for people to show what elements were written there. The other one. It is very important that the discussion finally reached tariffs and, of course, there shouldn't be any populistic that there are high or low tariffs, they should be transparent. I was still on February 21st, even on Facebook on my wall, writing about all the suggestions we've come up with today. Unfortunately, we didn't hear that, and we went to that crazy populism that we have today. At that cost of gas mining, and we have a middleman named Naftogazu. I know it's like flies now. There's bees against honey. Tell me, why does Naftogaz (your version) take more than half of the price between the population and our extractor?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. First of all, I don't remember anyone being ashamed of the audience. And to be honest, I'm going to make a general comment that I'm surprised that even in these walls you don't recognize banal economic rules. Like the cost of capital, like depreciation, which is recognized around the world. If we want to be a European country, we need and recognize all of these Western world standards that are used in the oil and gas industry. Now for why Naftogaz. Naftogaz is needed to subsidize that imported gas that we're buying at about 250 prices, and we hope to go out on average this year, 250 dollars, and sell, for example, for companies in the heat utility at less than $100. That takes Naftogaz. Naftogaz is the company that is taking on damage this year, at least 6 billion dollars, which will be financed from other sources of income that unfortunately generates a population gas trade. And the drugs to make Naftogaz stop being a monopoly are very simple. First, the adoption of new laws that were passed before.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u172	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u173	Thank you. Which was passed by the PEC Committee on the full implementation of the Law on the Gas Market. The other one. When all gas prices are marketed, then, really, monopolists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u174	Thank you. Take your place, please, where the government lies. We have the prime minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. I invite you, Arseni Petrovich, to your word. And after that, we too, let's see, let's ask 3-5 questions to the Prime Minister and finish the discussion. Please, Your Honor, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u175	Your Honourable Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished representatives of the deputies who participated in the meeting of the working group! I, first of all, thank you for having this open and public discussion today. And that in this discussion there is less and less cheap politics and more numbers and facts. We need to give society a clear answer to the questions why tariffs, what's going on in the Naftogazu system, what reforms have been implemented and what our goals and objectives are for the future. That's why I'd like to start by saying that, as Prime Minister, I could hide behind the National Commission on Energy and Utilities, saying that it's not a government, not a prime minister signing a decree, they're an independent body, they're appointed president, ask them questions. It's gonna be cynical, sweet and just weak. The government, including me as the prime minister of the country, has taken political responsibility and political decision on reform in the country's gas sector, and I will bear this responsibility, and I am ready to report to all of you for it. And so, first. I'll start with what's been done. And I'm going to end up with what goals and goals are in front of the country. In the last two years, we've finally come off the Russian Federation's gas needle. About 70 percent of the gas is supplied from European Union member countries at market price, not at the price that was signed and agreed in 2009. Secondly, we've secured a lawsuit against the Russian Federation to the Stockholm Arbitration Court. Ukraine is demanding the Russian Gazprom's return of 16 billion U.S. dollars in losses that Ukraine has both overpaid for gas and lacked transit revenue. In particular, I'm going to point out that the Russian Federation has filed a lawsuit against Ukraine on the basis of the same gas contracts for US$27 billion from the Ukrainian State. For a so-called item in a contract called "Take or pay," either take it or pay it. We consider the requirements of the Russian Federation to be unfounded. And we're going to fight for Ukrainian national interests. Third, the purchase price. Finally, there are no middlemen and gas oligarchs in Ukraine that have been born in the last 20 years. It was because the price was low for the population that, unfortunately, hundreds of millions of United States dollars had been washed out of the taxpayers’ budget and that the gas oligarches had been formed, which, to this day, had a political presence in the Ukrainian Parliament. And the individual political forces continue to play on this. [[Applause]] Next. As Prime Minister, I would not like to return to this gas contract for so many reasons. But there will be a time when we will have to investigate whether they were thrown off in payment for Russian natural gas under this contract. And who got these casts. Now there's no output, because there's no middleman, there's a direct contract with both Gazprom and our European partners. Next on the gas balance. I strongly support your position that everything needs to be investigated, and I appreciate your position. The only thing I have is a request that the balance is projected. It's very difficult for us to predict the quantity of consumption. I remember, in this Parliamentary Hall, exactly three months ago, some claimed that the price of Russian gas would be $150. This forecast failed because the contract price was about $300. And if someone in the country now takes the responsibility of predicting that we're going to have winter minus 5, raise your hand. We predict winter is going to be negative 20. It is the responsibility of the government to provide people with warmth. If winter is minus 20, our target of finding gas in shelters should be at 19 billion cubic meters [19 billion cubic meters] of gas. We have no right to leave the country without heat. We have no right to leave people unattended. And that's why I have to take the worst scenario, not the best scenario, but the worst scenario. Including, honourable national MPs, there is no coal in this scenario. You know very well that we've lost 65 percent of all our mines. You know very well that in uncontrolled areas there are mines that extract "A" and "T" coal. And that's why the incredible deficit in coal and the deliberate actions of the Russian Federation to stop coal supply also affect our energy balance. Let me explain. If we don't have coal and if we don't have enough coal to heat it, we have to include gas and gas blocks. If we include gaseous blocks, it's an extra consumption of natural gas. That's why I want to come to you again. I would very much like there to be a person here who can predict the amount of coal, the Russian Federation's actions and the weather. If so, show him and let him take the guarantees. Unfortunately, this cannot be predicted. So once again, the basic scenario of the government is cold winter itself, and it's a problem with the supply of coal and the corresponding complexity of the block launch. By tariff. I'm not now going to refer to, for example, that the average price for the consumer, I'm stressing, for the final consumer, is not that the retail price for the natural gas market, but for the final consumer in the member countries of the European Union is between $800 and $1,000. Ask the audience, ask the head of the National Energy Regulatory Commission, they'll give you the numbers, because I have all the numbers in front of me. Let me remind you that we have the number of contagion, the positive number is 3,000 600 dollars. Where did the number of 7 thousand 188 come from, is it called a full number? We take the price of import gas, we multiply it by VAT, we add 4 percent of the special assembly, we add 900 dollars for transit, and we get 7 thousand 188. There were some who performed arithmetic and said that the government had made a mistake by 1 bracelet, 1 bracelet I was ready to take. For a figure of 3,000, 600 dollars. So once again, from this rostrum, I want to confirm that the actual cost of self-sustainment gas, I emphasize, the self-sustainment that I have claimed, and not only I have repeatedly, depends on the well, on the enterprise from $70 to $100. And you've just been pointed out by the head of Crushing. But this self-sustainability does not include the very basic investment, the investment that we need to build new wells and to get rid of the Russian gas as such. So if you take the real value of Crushing, you add VAT, rent. So tariffs and transportation, you're going to go to the price of 3,000 600 dollars is the exact price of 200 cubic meters of gas that we're giving as a population tax. 200 meters of cubic gas, 3,000, 600 dollars each of the country’s citizens will receive. Now, let's move on to how we can compensate for the really difficult situation and the huge cost to Ukrainian citizens. And that is also true. The truth is that the new accounts will, in a mild sense, be accepted and received without applause. And as the head of the government, I'd like to go out and say, well, we're all cheap, we've got all the gas, we've got the cheapest gas in the world, and we're on our way to communism. I think it's someone to talk to, and I won't lie to you. We have the only mechanism. [[Applause]] I ask everyone to understand very much why we went to reform this gas sector. Not just to clean up the oligarchs, not just to clean up corruption, but to eventually change the system that existed for 20 years. The tariff system for 20 years was as follows: the poor became poorer, the rich became richer. Because the one who owns the house has a thousand square meters. The person who earns not a thousand dollars pays 10, 15, 20 as much as the person who has 70 square meters and has a minimum pension or minimum wage. We must stop dating the rich and help the poor. [[Applause]] Now I know there's been a lot of criticism about our grant program, and that's true. In the first step, I'll be honest with you that we were concerned that the program would be very difficult to move. And there were a lot of bureaucratic questions. First of all, the old subsidy program predicted the completion of an incredible number of stupid declarations, some answers, some help. So a person who would want to get a grant would never get this subsidy by virtue of bureaucracy, because it's just impossible to even fill out these papers. Of the 90 questions and 15 letters to be filled, we reduced it to 15 in the first stage. And we also made a mistake even in the first phase of the reform. Let me tell you what this mistake was. Because we obliged people to contribute their income. We did an experiment in the government. They gave out these declarations. Say, from the simplified declaration, please fill in. Do you know how many government officials have correctly filled out the declaration? 10 percent of the members of the government. After that, we moved on. And now we've simplified the whole subsidy system completely. Now you don't need help, now you don't have to count your income. It fills out a simple application and sends this application to the social service, and the social service actually assigns it to the vending machine. There's another one, I'd call it a mental problem. People sometimes do not even need to go into social services, but the habit of handing over paper is that there is a huge accumulation of people in separate special services. I highly respect the work of our social services. We added 56 million to them so that those who form subsidies in social services would receive additional funds. The Post has created a single recruitment fund at all, and I would call it a premium, for the employees of Crucifixion, who go to all the villages to hand out these relevant applications, to the citizens to get a grant. Which is now exactly what the numbers are, dear friends. Last year we had 450,000 households last year that received subsidies. It's because of this whole fucking bureaucracy, because of these lines, it's 450,000. When we first saw that it wasn't moving and we changed the system, the process went away. I have to tell you right now. Already today 2.7 million households, that's about 9 million citizens of the country, have received subsidies. We expect an additional 2 million citizens to turn around, we've re-send the petitions all over the subsidies, and I understand that the biggest influx of people will begin just before the heating season. And there'll be queues. I'm asking everyone from this high rostrum, all citizens of the country, please form subsidies. We have 24.5 billion dollars in our budget for this year alone on grants. For the following year, we calculated that we would need 43 billion dollars. The subsidy system is simplified as follows. It's a complicated formula, but I'll try to simplify it. If the household, the average Ukrainian household, spends more than 10 percent on average per month on housing services, everything above this 10 percent is covered by the state. That is, a poor family or family that spends more than 10 percent on gas, electricity, housing services, directly receives a subsidy from the State and will not pay it out of their pocket. This is paid by the state, this is our responsibility. This is the principle of social justice. To help those who need it, not to feed the rich. [[Applause]] Now, dear friends, what is the problem? That's all I'm telling you right now, all you have to do is know when? 20 years ago. When the Poles did it, when the Baltic countries did it, when Eastern Europe did it. They had the same system. This system is called the following: combustion of the atmosphere. The houses are uninsulated, the heat lines are uninsulated, the boilers of Soviet specimens. So we're taking a gas that costs billions of dollars and we're just heating up the atmosphere. That's why, starting last year, we started a broad energy efficiency program. Yesterday I was given a figure that for the first time in yesterday's Savings Day I issued 600 energy efficiency loans. It's not just loans. The person who gets credit either at the Savings Bank or at the Bank of Finance gets compensation from the State for the body loan. If a person wants to buy a boiler, if a person wants to change windows, if the OSBB has decided to warm up the house, even 70 percent of the budget is going to be compensated for. Including, there should be a counter program. I realize that all you have to do is pay for the service, for the service you've been given. That's why separate gas companies, regardless of their direct liability, don't place counters, that's why Hotcommunergo doesn't put counters. You can cheat on anyone you want, and so don't modernize businesses and abuse them. So we've put in place an energy efficiency program, except that we have loans, and the NCRE has made several decisions to stimulate decisions. If you're changing the boiler, and this is what budgetary organizations started doing first, then the whole economy that you got on the tariff, you can spend on your modernization, this decision was made in the past and in the current year. Finally, the country's distinguished national deputies, I am well aware that this subject is, first of all, of a political nature, it has always been. No government, no government, took responsibility for raising tariffs. Well, all politicians take the polls on the first question: how does the people of Ukraine react to tariff hikes, well, find me one person in the world who says, "That's good to pay more." But it's the only right decision, because we didn't just pay more, we paid hundreds of billions from the state budget, we burned the atmosphere, we brought the country, I stress, the country to bankruptcy, I'm not talking about NAC Naftogaz Ukraine anymore. Our goal today and it's absolutely real: we're reforming the gas market, we've started and implemented the Naftogaz reform, we've changed our relationship with Russia's Gazprom and started buying gas in the European Union, we've put in place an energy efficiency program, we have to invest in domestic goods and reduce resource consumption. If we do all this without politics and without these slogans, in 10 years, Ukraine will be fully self-sustaining gas -- that is our goal and we will achieve it. I'm ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please give us five questions to the Prime Minister. Write down the first five questions, and we'll finish the discussion. We've been working for over an hour. Please sign in, please. Artushenko Igor Andriyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Ariev Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u178	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u179	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you said very correctly that today we need to set up energy-saving technologies, implement them, because we need to move from populist low tariffs and compensation to consumption economy. But we also know that in the district, people are coming to me, that it's very hard to get the right services in the Savings now, which are compensated for energy-saving technologies, because big queues. Please tell me, are you planning to engage other government financial structures to make it easier and faster to warm or install energy-saving technologies for both cities and rural areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u180	Mr. Vladimir, thank you so much for asking. We wanted to connect more banks, but a decision was made to issue energy efficiency loans solely through the government bank system. The biggest network, of course, at the Savings Bank. I want to repeat that yesterday, if a clear figure is 571 credits, yesterday was issued by the Savings Bank. I think maybe they just can't do it in separate compartments. That's why we connected the second bank. And once again, I want to turn from this rostrum that Krukgazbank is part of the government's energy efficiency program. Between the 20th and the 70th percent of this loan, depending on what this loan goes for, is being compensated by the state budget. What have local authorities done? I also want to address you as the national MPs: you're going to the districts now, before the municipal elections, I think that's the right thing to do when the relevant authorities of local self-government make decisions, like they made decisions in Lviv. They started the program not only by compensating the body of the loan, but by implementing the interest compensation program. And these programs come from local budgets, they compensate for 50 percent, that's half of the interest rate. The resources for this are in the local budgets, because you and I have decentralization into the budget, the resources of the local budgets have increased by 40 percent. I looked at yesterday, for example, the Winnitsky newspaper, how subsidies are being rolled up in Winnitz, and energy credits, and I want to go and get credit. So all the local self-government agencies that really want people to pay less to pay the budget less and to save, please use the Savings Bank, use the Bank, use the government budget grant, and please implement the programs to be energy efficient, to compensate for interest rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u181	Please, Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u182	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Sergio Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u183	Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u184	Arsenius Petrovich, I often criticize you, but the willingness of the government to make unpopular reforms and market tariffs deserves compliments. [[Applause]] At the same time, apart from the compliments, there is a question where you are, I think, not working. " Crohnafta", 2 months modified management, the contract is still pending, and 2.5 billion Cologne is to blame for the budget. Please explain, from Ohmatdit, helmets, posters, for this money you can build 2 Ohmatdits – 2.5 billion. In the contract, first, is there a condition for a change in all government? Because we already have experience when we had a foreign head of Skrnaft, who wrote a few months later on trust on two of his deputies, the managers of the Cologne, who are still operating and still running, two months after Vanhek's predecessor was released. Will there be a change of rulership? And secondly, will these dividends finally be paid into Ukraine’s budget? When they're paid and when they're paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u185	Mr. Sergey, when you compliment him, he can't help but warn. I, by the way, honestly believe that you are doing the right job as a national deputy of Ukraine and as a former journalist. Even though I don't always like it. Well, that's the thing. You didn't have to go into politics at the time. It's about your question about Croneft. I want to speak only with specific figures and facts. First, you passed a bill that was introduced by the Government of Ukraine, I stress, the Government of Ukraine, on the return of control of Ukraine. And now there were general stockholders' meetings. As a result of the general meeting of shareholders, an independent figure was chosen — Mr. Rollins, who was to lead the company Ukranafta. As I informed you at the faction last week, I met Mr. Rollins with the head of the NAC's Naftogaz Ukraine. The main delay in signing the contract was due to a key item. It's the responsibility of the head of the government of Skroft to pay dividends. And not just for the dividends, but for the company's financial and economic activities in general. I can give you all the figures on government debt today, sorry, not state-owned, but company Ukrnafta, where 51 percent belong to the state, and 49 percent belong to the private shareholder. The total amount of unpaid dividends for 2013 amounts to 1 billion 780 million dollars. And in 2014, about 600 million dollars were allocated to the government, to the government, to the state. Right, Minister, if I don't have a memory? After negotiations with the head of government, the credible future head of the UK government, he agreed to include this item in the contract. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reviewed the issue and supported the position of the Ministry and NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u186	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u187	As for the approval of this contract. And on the 28th number, there's an observer council that's going to approve the contract. After reading, by the way, one of your blogs has officially addressed the minister and the head of the NAC "Naftogaz" government with what I believe Mr. Rollins, if he signs the contract, has to make a public statement that, apart from the funds he will receive under contract in the form of salary and bonus, he will not receive any other financial resources from any of the parties to this agreement. So it's not like there's a hidden deal behind your back, and someone's going to have an impact on the head of the Scrooge. His public statement is subject to consideration, including if it is violated, in international courts. So in closing, I'm informing you that the 28th is due to have a supervisory board, the 28th is supposed to be a contract. After the contract entered into force and after its entry into office, he has 30 days in exchange for full government. He is fully responsible for the company’s activities. I support anything that supports a new leader if it works for the company.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u188	Thank you. That was the second question. Question three. Please, National Deputy Vladimir Solarar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u189	I ask you to pass the word to Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u190	Natala Katzer-Buchovsky, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u191	Arsenija Petrovich, thank you for making such clarity clear in the politicized discussion on the value of natural gas. But nevertheless, we can say that, in fact, always imported gas will be more expensive than the gas that was produced in Ukraine. So I have the next question. What are the government's plans on how to stimulate investment in own gas production and what rent rates for private gas companies do you think are optimal in stimulating your own production and investment in the industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u192	Thank you so much for this important question. And I'd like to tell you what work was done on this subject. For six months with our American partners and IHS, we've been doing research on different formulas and tax models. And the result of this work is that a bill has been introduced to Parliament to change the taxation system in the gas sector. What is the problem now in the energy sector? One story when oil cost $120. And both natural gas and investment, whether in natural gas or in oil, had a very different character. But when oil fell by $45 and invested in the sector at high interest rates, and under a complex tax system and in current circumstances in Ukraine, few will be found. That's why we made the package. This package has been introduced to Parliament. I'm asking Parliament to support a substantial reduction in rates for real investors, I stress, for real investors that drill wells, that extract gas, that don't steal licenses that don't sign joint ventures, because joint activity is a pure corruption scheme, and that are willing to invest in Ukraine increasing gas production in what we would become an energy-dependent state. This is a project you're looking at. I want to point out, support this project and please don't support the idea of sort of improving gas production by reducing rent for joint activity. We know all the names behind these joint activities, we know all the people who have promised to reduce the rent in a joint venture -- only the investor, not the corrupter, to cut the stake.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u193	Next question. National MP Valérie Lunchenko, three, four, and still national deputy Korchik. Please, Valery Lunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u194	I want to pass on the word of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u195	Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u196	The Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine is actually very important for the Ukrainian society to have the debate you are having, the open discussion on tariffs. But if you'll excuse me, it reminds me more of this company of thousands of cuts to the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian government. This is the obvious reaction of the Ukrainian oligarchs to whose interests the government has taken over and the obvious reaction in society to their criticism. Nevertheless, in the last interview, the former Foreign Minister of Poland, Sikorski, has compared your activities and the activities of the government that you are leading as the first government in the history of Ukraine instead of complaining, are taking real steps. A government that has taken on real reforms. [[Applause]] I'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u197	Let's do it this way. I see that from your faction the next question. We'll give you a minute. Finish your questions and we'll finish your questions to the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u198	In view of this, I would like to ask you, in addition to information on production and taxation, to also inform us about the next plans and steps taken by the government to increase energy efficiency and possibly reduce the energy efficiency of our GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Ostap, I've already talked about what our plan is. So, of course, it's primarily about stimulating the production of its own natural gas. The second is the decrease in consumption. The third is the exit to the energy markets of the European Union, which we have already managed to do. The fourth is the increase in the volume of reverse. The fifth is the signing of the tripartite protocol for this heating season between Ukraine and the European Union and the Eastern neighbour, and the addition to the gas agreement to ensure that natural gas is supplied to Ukraine for this winter. Sixth is an energy efficiency program for citizens of the country. Seventh, we need to completely modernise all of Ukraine's Heatcommunergo. Let me remind you that the KFW and Chancellor Merkel himself have given us about 500 million euros to conduct energy-generating. These include the European Investment Bank, the European Development Bank and reconstruction. But I would now stop not only on our plans, but on the fundamental threats that we have and that we need to face. If you remember, in these very walls of Parliament last year, you supported the idea of allowing for a joint concert with European or American companies to operate and modernize the Ukrainian gas transport system and Ukrainian repositories. At this stage, unfortunately, there is not yet a real proposal from our Western partners to enter the Ukrainian gas transport system and to modernise it together, and to work together and make money together. For what it is. There's "South Stream Two." It's a classic anti-European and anti-Ukrainian project. What's the next target? If Russia builds the South Stream -2 with individual Western companies, that means that Russia will achieve its goal and deprive Ukraine of all natural gas transit services to the member countries of the European Union. I'll give you the numbers. The total amount of our income under the current transit contract, which was going to be much higher, $2 billion per year. I don't think it's in partnership when Russia and Western companies want to shut down the direct gas flow to the European Union, the safe gas flow to the European Union, the cheap gas flow to the European Union, and take away Ukraine and not just Ukraine for $2 billion. At my meeting with Prime Minister of Slovakia, Robert Fitz Slovakia made the same harsh statement. Because the construction of the second branch of the South Stream deprives Slovakia of its revenues of $800 million. If you're losing almost $3 billion somewhere, I have a question about who's making it? That is why I look forward to the very clear position of our Western partners, primarily the European Commission and the European Union member countries, as regards the failure of the Russian Federation to implement a plan to deprive Ukraine of transit potential and to deprive Ukraine of billions of dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for your attention. And if we make unpopular decisions, but the right decisions, as we made them and made them yesterday, believe me, the country will be successful, energy independent and modelled among the member states of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u200	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u201	Can I ask for Ohmatdit? Let's meet right now everyone who's interested in Ohmatdith. There are ministers here right now in the towers. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, we now have another half hour, and we have a very painful and lengthy question about the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the Zacarpathian conflict. We have time to consider this question. And, dear colleagues, I would like us to move on to this issue. It doesn't need a change in procedure. And I invite you to report to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. But I do. Wait a minute, now. I didn't get a statement, Oksano. I'm sorry, there's been an application for a break from two factions. And I'm forced not to call it a break, give it a word. Sobolev, right? No, I'm sorry, I do. Is that "self-help" or "fatherland" statement? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, respectable colleagues, look, there are two factions calling for a break. What factions make this statement? There's a statement from Fatherland and Laszka for a break. Then, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Yegor, I give my word to the person who has made statements in this matter. Dear colleagues, since this statement has come to the fore, I give the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, three minutes instead of a break and immediately a report. I'm asking you to prepare for the report. We're going straight to the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u203	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, it happened that when the Prime Minister spoke, the factions of Fatherland did not ask questions. And I think that would be very right, because we have different visions of the formation of tariff policies in the state. Without demeaning anyone and asking anyone any embarrassing questions, I would simply like to make a few comments. It's number one. There is the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which clearly states in article 10 that Ukrainian gas must go up to 16.2 billion cubic metres. In fact, the government's decision is only 10.6. Five and six billion cubic feet [5 and 6 billion cubic meters] of gas on a corrupt basis is given to close commercial structures, and they receive cheap gas, earn income. Today, Ukrainian gas, which is given on a corrupt basis to commercial structures, is sold to the industry by 5,000 dollars and to the people by 7,188. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister that question, unfortunately, I was not given that right. Next thing you know, the price of Ukrainian natural gas is one thousand 900 dollars, and it's absolutely unbeatable. You've heard that the head of the state mining company Crushing said very clearly that after 2014, he had a profit of $1 billion 400, enough to develop a branch. So the price of a thousand 900 dollars is not a loss, but it doesn't get to people, it doesn't get to people because there's widespread corruption, unfortunately. Next, we have just heard allegations from the Prime Minister regarding the contract signed in 2009. I don't remember him criticizing these contracts when he went with the Fatherland party to the election, when his people, who were in a single faction with the Fatherland party, he didn't make any remarks on the gas contracts when his Fatherland was putting on prime minister, and now he's turning into Yanukovich and trying to act on the path of political repression. And I also want to make it clear that today's government is getting 240 and less dollars per thousand cubic meters right under this contract. I won $232 in 2009 for this particular contract. And by the way, at the very start of the 2008 crisis, it didn't raise the tariffs for people. Unfortunately, the oligarchs are flourishing around the government today, and the people are taking the last. And that's why we hope that the Attorney General's Office will investigate every corrupter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u204	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u205	And every corrupter who gave the Ukrainian gas to commercial structures will be called to account. And once again, Russian gas is given to industry, not industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u206	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u207	And what I'm saying is, if this goes down, it's going to be a criminal offense. Give the Ukrainians normal gas prices and normal heat tariffs. And we're going to keep fighting for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u208	The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the situation in the Zakartat region begins. And the report is invited by a reporter, the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u209	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region. On July 11, 2015, there was an armed conflict in Mukacheva Zakarpatska district between a group of armed men in military uniforms with the symbol "Right Sector" and the guards of the Antares sports complex. Following the arrival of police officers, members of the Ukrainian Volunteer Corps of the "Right Sector" military and patriotic movement used firearms in relation to them. Taking into account the extraordinary social resonance caused by the event, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decree of 14 July 2015, established a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the conflict in the Zakartat region. The main task of the Interim Investigation Commission is to exercise parliamentary control over the status of unbiased and transparent investigation of the circumstances of the conflict. The work of the TSK was conducted in public, attended and attended by representatives of the media, at the agreement of the members of the TSK and invited to their meetings, continuously recorded the record on the tape recorder and the transcripts of the meetings. As a result of her activities, the TSC established. According to the fact of the armed conflict, on 11 July 2015, in Mukachev, the General Prosecutor's Office opened the criminal conduct of the alleged criminal offences envisaged in part one of the first article 255 “Creating Criminal Organizations” and part two of article 258 “Terrorist Act” of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. From information officially received from the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, it is seen that Ukraine's law enforcement agencies have different assessments of the events that took place on 11 July 2015 in Mukacheve. In fact, each of the law enforcement agencies has its own version of this armed conflict. Yes, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine from March 2013 to July 2015, a criminal organization led by the Stoka was operating in the Zacarpathian area. She organized herself into a stable armed criminal group, determined by the sole purpose and purpose, and followed the rules of conduct made by her representatives, using formal clothing and symbols of voluntary Ukrainian battalions, committed serious, especially serious crimes involving the involvement of citizens of bodily harm, their abduction and illegal deprivation of their will, the demand and seizure of foreign property, and the illegal acquisition, carrying, and storage of firearms and ammunition. According to the Ukrainian Security Service, one of the reasons for the extraordinary event in Mukatev on 11 July 2015 was the contradiction in the organization of possible criminal schemes, as well as the existence of repeated conflict situations, which are now being handled by procedural leaders and investigators in accordance with articles 36 and 40 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The meeting at the Antares Sports Club of the National Deputy of Ukraine Laño and the representative of the Zacarpatian DUK "Right Sector" was the result of agreements between representatives of the local "Right Sector", Karimov and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laño Artura Paskolak. According to a version of the Ukrainian Security Service, the extraordinary event in Mukachevev on 11 July 2015 was the reason for the tightening of the relationship between the regional centre of the Law Sector and the leadership of the U.S.U.S. of the Zakarpatsky region in the person of Sharanic. In the information of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, it was pointed out that the criminal investigation of criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 258 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, as well as the overriding of officials of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in the Zakarpatsk region in the process of arresting representatives of the "Legal Sector" under the terms of article 365 of the Criminal Code. It is conducted by an inter-ministerial task force of 59 investigators in general and is under the personal control of the Attorney General of Ukraine. As a result of the shooting, on July 11, 2015, both law enforcement personnel and civilians were injured in the city of Mukachev. The analysis of available materials and explanations allows the TSC to identify the reasons and conditions that led to the events of July 11, 2015 in Mukachev. The general reason was the absence. After the end of the Dignity Revolution. Most of the direct participants in these events have gone to the ATO zone to protect our state, and the Zacarpathian authorities have continued to work in their normal regime, with the characteristics of clanry, corruption, and corruption. A message, an imperfect personnel policy, an inability to analyse developments and respond effectively to extraordinary events, a low level of criminal delinquency investigation, conceal criminal activities, lack of proper interaction between law enforcement agencies, their competition in controlling smuggling flows, securing the roof of power. and officials of law enforcement agencies, organized criminal gangs engaged in smuggling. Against the backdrop of the poor socio-economic situation in the region, that is, mass unemployment is linked to this extremely low standard of living, mostly the majority of the population in the area, the complex criminal situation, has had a place to sharpen the relationship between the patriotic or radically established inhabitants of the area, particularly those who have returned from the ATO area and the law enforcement authorities. Against this background, a group of citizens, including members of the Dignity Revolution, and ATO members, who were dissatisfied with the situation in Zakarpat, particularly with the work of the law enforcement system, were formed under the auspices of civil and political organizations, and tried to rework their own law enforcement and justice functions. These groups, covered by patriotic slogans, included people who pursued completely different goals, which were officially documented by appropriate social and political movements, including the Right Sector. The activity of these individuals has a clear, useful orientation, including a desire to take control of smuggling in the area and earn a lot of money from it. Despite the complex criminality situation in the state, the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine, the prosecutor's office, The Ministry of State, the Zakarpat district’s branch for 2014-15 years, did not give due attention to the organization and active measures to detect and eliminate armed criminal groups that had corrupt connections in the authorities, and were involved in illegal movement under excise goods through the customs control of Ukraine for smuggling, drugs and other illegal activities. On the part of the prosecutor’s office, there was no proper prosecutorial supervision. leading to trial, criminal investigation, leading to premature closure and. Case closed. Decisions on the closure of criminal conduct were made by investigators without all necessary investigators, search and rescue. by their motives. In most criminal proceedings, the illegal movement of excise goods across the customs border is not justified in delaying the period of pretrial investigation. The scales of smuggling indicate a clearly selected and functionally divided network of smuggling from both sides of government control. It has been established that the results of the smuggling in Zakarpat do not reflect its true scale. The official anti-smuggling statistics do not match the actual data on smuggling, which is based on industry and undermines the existence of specially built factories in other states, factories from the production of related products, such as tobacco. Legal displacement. Party of these goods in Ukraine, marking them as you are. to Ukraine with further legalization of the pepper. for the border. There is reason to believe that similar schemes are designed for many kinds of goods and are calculated by billions of dollars. Yes, according to experts in 2013, the market for illegal cigarettes in Ukraine was estimated at 44.47 billion dollars. In 2014, the state suffered only from the lack of excise collection from an illegal tobacco depot — over 2 billion dollars. According to the prosecutor of the Zakartat district of Yanka, appointed on January 5, 2015, several months before the events that took place on July 11, 2015 in Mukachevo, there was a problem in the district prosecutor's office in relations with the spare battalion "Right Sector" of the Zacarpat region led by Stojak. This was demonstrated by the efforts of the representatives of these organizations to exert psychological pressure on the prosecution to influence criminal decisions involving individual members of the battalion. In particular, they threatened representatives of law enforcement agencies, as well as, directly, the families of the district's procurator and his deputies, who were involved in criminal conduct with regard to the law sector. According to the profile given by the procurator of the Zakartat district of Yank, the district prosecutor’s team is now largely intimidated and demoralized, preventing him from performing his duties. As a result of the activities of the TSC, these conclusions were reached. To date, the fair investigation of events that took place on 11 July 2015 in Mukacheva is carried out as part of a large number of criminal conducts that give rise to no risk. their investigation, as well as the fact that the investigation is limited to establishing the circumstances of individual episodes of armed conflict. That is, there will be no proper legal assessment of previous criminal activity for participants in conflict, crime organizers, and the establishment and elimination of cause and condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u210	How much time do you have left? How much? Five more minutes. Okay. Five minutes, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u211	Special attention and a separate legal assessment require action by individuals who, although not directly involved in the armed conflict, may be relevant to the execution of the conflict. This is mainly about the leaders of competing business groups in the Zakartat region. Contradictions that could have caused this conflict. There is reason to believe that the armed conflict of 11 July 2015 in the town of Mukatev was largely provoked by the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Zakarpat district system, since not only were the leaders and employees of these bodies informed. Representatives of the DOC "Right Sector" with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laño, on 11 July 2015, participated in the organization of this meeting and its operational escort. There was a need for careful investigation of the role of the national deputies of Baloga, Laño, Jaroz, then U.S.U.S.A., the Zakarpathian district of Charanic, Galete, and other law enforcement officials in carrying out and putting an end to the conflict. . we also need to acknowledge the operational-search measures to establish and prove the responsibility of the organizers of these events, as well as the search for the participants in this armed conflict. One reason for this may be the personal interest of the leaders of the U.M.S. and the Zakarpatsky region, some of whom, after the events of July 11 in Mukachevo, remain in their posts, particularly in the Zacarpathian district of Galatia and the deputy head of the Zakarpatsky district of Russia. The TSC did not put systematic foreign pressure on the authorities to investigate the criminal conduct of the events. At the same time, taking into account the interests of certain business groups involved in the investigation in the future, it is not possible to rule out a variety of influence on the judicial investigation. Then there is the need to provide. Parliamentary and public control over the investigation of these criminal conducts. According to available TSK materials, the main cause of the armed conflict that took place on 11 July 2015 in Mukacheve was the identification of the relations between the representatives of the main Zacarpathian political and business groups on the control of smuggling and flows coming through the Ukrainian state border into the area. Smuggling was and remains one of the key factors that defines not only the state of corruption and organized crime, but also the economic, political, social situation in the Zakartat region, and also affects the activities of the IMF authorities, the BSS, and in many cases converts them from law enforcement to illegal. The law enforcement structures of the area, instead of interacting with the legal antismuggling function, fought to control smuggling flows. Smuggling on Zakarpatta has become clearly transnational, has become a state-wide problem of minimization and scope, as well as its reduction of influence on the political, economic, social sphere, requires the leadership of the State of Systemic and Action. Such urgent measures are the establishment of the political curators of smuggling in such an area and the provision of proper legal assessment, in particular as part of the investigation into the criminal conduct of the armed conflict on 11 July 2015. This armed conflict has become possible because of the existence in the Zakarpathian region of favorable premeditations for the unpunished activities of armed and criminal groups, including the use of symbolism. organizations. The activities of such groups have not been adequately addressed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Zakartat region, each of which in its own way ensured co-existence with such groups. The Zacarpathian legal structures have demonstrated practically full technical and organisational capacity to properly localize and neutralize the armed conflict on 11 July 2015 in Mukacheva. And the arrest of his gunmen was the result of the conflict, which led to the tragic consequences and the escape of a group of armed persons from the scene of the crime. This calls for serious changes in the arrangements of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service in similar situations. new operational plans to respond to armed conflicts, search, capture of armed criminals, and critical human resources decisions. Human resources and other decisions applied immediately after the armed conflict are insufficient to respond to the conflict, especially to its causes and conditions. They are. Change in Zakarpatt's situation in the area of anti-corruption, organized crime and smuggling. They all come from the fact that for many years law enforcement agencies, prosecutors and fiscal services have failed to systematically combat corruption, organized crime, and smuggling in the Zakartat region. Moreover, they have largely ensured the co-existence of smuggling schemes that are impossible without their involvement in large-scale smuggling. The cessation of the smuggling scheme requires, in fact, a complete, rather than selective, shift of leadership of the Zacarpathian authorities. An unacceptable situation in which Galatia, who has long headed the Zakarpat district’s headquarters, continues to serve as the first deputy head of the same administration after the armed conflict in the present smuggling situation in Zakarpat. Disciplinary measures such as bullying, severe bullying, and other officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u212	I'm asking you to finish for a minute, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u213	The TSK indicates that there is no proper legislative basis for the implementation of constitutional powers by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct parliamentary investigations into issues of social interest, as well as the imperfections of current legislation in the implementation of democratic control over the security system. A full report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of conflict situations with conclusions and proposals by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please support and accept the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 September 2015 (registration number 3135) as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 10 more minutes to ask questions and answers. I ask you to prepare all the national MPs present, and I ask you to sign up for a question for the reporter, all 10. And please sign up for the question. Please log in. Thank you. So, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u215	Mr. Head! I am also a member of the commission of inquiry, and I was surprised that some of our national deputies did not give us the necessary evidence to establish a complete picture of what was going on during this conflict. I'd like to separately announce and determine whether Balog's national deputy gave a separate witness, not personally, but somehow explained what was going on in his presence, for his instructions, and for him, let's say, a personal part of the talks and all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u216	Balog’s national deputy did not give a witness and no longer cooperated with the commission to determine all the circumstances of the 11th year in Mukacheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u217	Please, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u218	Dear reporter, I had the same question. What is the role of our colleagues in Mr. Baloga and Mr. Laño's Parliament? I'd just like them to really be reflected in the report. And we wanted to hear it in principle. No, no, no, no, Because it's primarily important for us to hear the names of people who create smuggling conditions in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u219	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that if you read the report that we gave carefully, it says in the report that we, the commission of inquiry, require a follow-up on those criminal cases that are violated, that we establish the role and place of these people in that smuggling. Because the commission of inquiry does not have the authority to determine what is the responsibility. Therefore, the commission of inquiry proposes the adoption of the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u220	Thank you. Melniczuk, Peter Dustenka's Block, passes it to Rybak. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! Ivan Rybak, 202 constituency. I don't want to ask any more questions here. I just want to point out how many of us are in this room right now. And, indeed, an important resonance issue for Ukrainian society, for our nation, and how few national deputies have left to listen to this report! I think such things are unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u222	Thank you. Please, Sporish Ivan Dmitrovitch, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u223	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. You know, we listened carefully to the report. And really, there. Well, according to the report, there's no complete question. Say it in one word, well, it would be fair to say, right now, we're being watched, we're being watched by the whole of Ukraine, so say it, first, it's on that particular person. He's the one who's guilty. Right Sector. Actually, not specifically, that's the plan. Simply, without any paperwork, without anything, please tell me, really, who is to blame for this case? In a word. Tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u224	I'd like to answer that question in one word or one sentence. But I can't answer that, because the commission of inquiry -- the TSC doesn't have that kind of authority and it can't. This can only be done as part of a criminal investigation. That's why we wrote that. In a report that needs to be determined with responsibility in a criminal case. Moreover, I would like to point out that the TSC does not have the ability to be in the matter, for it is not the subject of an investigation. That's why I'm stressing that we need to adopt a law so that the next TSCs, who will work, will work under the law and have the opportunity, as you said, to call the guilty one sentence. Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u225	Thank you. Packan Valeriy Vasilovich will speak instead of Barney. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u226	Good afternoon, chairman! Good afternoon, dear colleagues are colleagues who are not practically in the hall. You know, when you go on the subject of Mukachev, on the subject of Carpathians, calling everyone in Zakarpatt a smuggler, all the national MPs of 445 were plentiful on this subject. There were a lot of different comments, different conclusions, everyone knew the situation, everyone was discussing it, but unfortunately there is no one today. Objectively, in order for the work of the TSK to be completed, as one of the members of the TSK, I would like to ask you now, Mr. Chairman, and the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission to continue the work of the TSK for the period of investigation by the Attorney General's Office, the completion of the criminal case on the events that took place in Mukachev on 11 July. Next, I ask that we objectively answer the question that our colleague has just raised, and we must adopt the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, where the TSK will have the authority to directly influence the investigation and assist the investigation. Who's to blame? The guilty system that produced corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u227	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u228	corruption and oligarchic groups in the Zakarpatsky region. When one of the queens wants to rule the entire area, then keep all authority in hand, there will be no rebirth and no corruption will be conquered. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u229	Thank you. I don't think it's a question of speed. It's a speech. It doesn't need a performance, does it? I beg you, Novak Natalia Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u230	Dear Mikola Petrovich, I would like to know whether the national deputies have become figures of certain criminal matters officially. And the second is actually my opinion, you've been asked to make it clear who's to blame. "Right Sector." But I support my colleague Packan, which we can call the Right Sector, the Left Sector. There are always people who want to smuggle and make illegal profits. But for that there are authorities: the B.O.B., the M.E., the D.A., which should not allow that, right? So, can we conclude that we have a bottom-up corrupt system that has completely crushed this smuggling? If we call the lower ranks of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, who has been specifically released today? There is no need for criminal investigation. The authorities responsible for the fight against smuggling and corruption in the region should be affected when the conflict took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u231	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u232	First of all, I'd like to say, are there any figures in the case of people working in the law enforcement system? The U.S. Attorney General's Office has committed a criminal case based on the evidence of a crime of "excess of power," or "abuse of power," and the case is being investigated, and the investigation of this case will assess those unlawful acts if such acts are recognized by law enforcement officials. As for the release of those people in the law enforcement system. Both the H.R.S. and the M.E.S. are freed and replaced. Leaders, I've already answered here, and the report says that the head of the BAF has been transferred to the post of first deputy, and the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is at the disposal of the Ministry. Before the investigation and the completion of the investigation into the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u233	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u234	First, I thank the members of the commission of inquiry for their work. Thank you for your conclusions. They're solid enough, you know. In principle, we need to take, first of all, as members of Parliament and adopt the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions with the appropriate powers of such commissions of inquiry. The only thing I didn’t see in that conclusion was how to deal with the smuggling itself and whether it was at all. discussed this issue at the meetings of the commission. Perhaps it would be wise to include suggestions from members of the commission to overcome the root cause of what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u235	That's what we have to offer. I'll tell you more. I'm counting, the commission looked. In general, the transfer of goods across borders to the area of responsibility should be changed. For example, the area of responsibility of the BSC. This is the area of responsibility that will be seen in relation to all the goods that are cut off from circulation. So it's drugs, it's weapons, it's harmful to the environment for citizens. And other things, because smuggling. We're taking everything to the contraband. Say, please, is this smuggling, if, for example, goods are moving abroad? Let me give you a specific example. There is a cigarette factory in Slovakia. This factory works there, uses cigarettes illegally and comes to us from that factory, and cigarettes come to us. They pass their customs like cigarettes. We're going in like this, and then they're saying that they already have cigarettes from the lion's factory and they're going back to the border. They're crossing the border like cigarettes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u236	Please, 10 seconds. Say it, please. Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u237	They just turned off the microphone. So I count, we have to change the system at all, and we wrote, we recommended the committee, and we recommend the Cabinet of Ministers. In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u238	Thank you. And the last question is, it's almost time, Jizhmar Yuri Vasilovich. Please, very concisely, very briefly, time is up for questions, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u239	Yuri Chizmar. In your report, I heard the phrase that law enforcement knew about the organized meeting, little, they were involved in the organization, and in fact, I understand that the video that appeared on the air every day for the information event, it was all an operational video. I mean, law enforcement saw and didn't stop the murder, law enforcement saw and didn't stop the breakup, law enforcement saw and contributed to the further killing of young boys. And I'm mentioning the 31st events, when the police used to turn off all the events, they didn't stop the grenade, and so on. Did it seem to you that this is all happening in order to discredit the 11th of July, the Right Sector, and the 31st of September, respectively, Freedom, the opponents who today oppose the Bank? Is not the law enforcement system now in effect, coming out of this situation, precisely political orders, since no law enforcement officer is held accountable, no one is released from office, no one, you know, has been brought to real responsibility, has been transferred to stock, God knows where, but no one has been held responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u240	I mean, I can't see, not just me, but the commission doesn't see any political element here. More to the Right Sector. I mean, they were just called the Right Sector, and to the Right Sector, they have a relationship that is very, very far away. I mean, the Right Sector has a political wing and it is, it was a wing that committed crimes, and it doesn't really matter who you call if you committed a crime and you have to be responsible. As far as the responsibility of the police is concerned. I've already said in my statement that a criminal case has been committed regarding the actions of employees, the rightfulness, not the rightfulness. For example, at the gas station where the charge was fired and where many bullets were fired, four gas stations at that intersection could. Torture, if it were to burst, it might. You should. Why is it that they've been detained there, why they shot, who shot, whether there was a need for it, but we can't do that to the commission, it can only be investigated in a criminal case. And once again, I'm stressing that if there was an MTSC in the definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u241	Please, 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u242	Then we could, as they say, identify ourselves and figure out the situation to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-18-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, the Temporary Investigation Commission continues its work. We heard an interim report. That's why the report doesn't need to be voted on right now. The potential is in the hall, of course. And we would have made any decree, a bill. Sadly, though, there is no need. And that's why we thank you for the Commission's interim report. We want further active and productive work. Dear colleagues, I want to apologize. Thank you very much, thank you, reporter. Today, unfortunately, we had no statements from the rostrum, although many deputies approached me with demands or questions. But we were able to have very important topical discussions both on tariffs with the government and with the government. And obviously this conversation, which was very important to Ukrainian society, and we were able to have it today, just as we did on the committee's report. It's very important. But it's the second hour. And we end not only the day but also the plenary week, which was not simple. Nevertheless, we have adopted extremely important laws both on debt restructuring and on wage and pension indexation. We have adopted excessive anticorruption laws. And I'm asking that next week the MPs spend an active, effective time so that we can continue our work in the next plenary week. And at that morning session, I declare the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, good-bye.
