ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We're starting our session. Please ask the national deputies to take their seats, prepare for registration. We're starting our session. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for your registration, and we will begin our meeting. Please turn on the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies in the hall. [[10:02:15]] There are 233 national deputies registered, and I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we have an hour with you to ask the government. Please prepare yourself, and we will have two speeches: a speech by the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenck, and the Minister of Justice, Mr. Dmitrovitch Petrenko. After that, we will set 30 minutes, as always, for questions to government officials. We're starting our work, I'm in Parliament's rostrum. Before that, I would like to report that on May 22, the head of the Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko faction, the Fatherland faction, is absent from the plenary for important reasons, namely health. Dear colleagues, we're starting our work. Please invite the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Valeriovich Rosenka, to report for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! There was a request for a more detailed discussion of the reform, the direction of the government’s pension changes as a comprehensive pension reform to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to concentrate, and I think I'm going to focus on what the government is proposing in the pension system of Ukraine. So a comprehensive pension reform was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why this has happened, I think there is no secret to anyone that the present state, the present quality and the standard of living of today's categories of pensioners is unsatisfactory. And basically this is the unsatisfying life of our fellow citizens, and it will move us to look for answers for future categories of pensioners, and at the same time without improving our current system, we will not find the answers to this question. Today, we find that the solidarity system that exists today in the country has actually exhausted its potential. With the pension fund’s own income of about 170 billion dollars, the pension fund’s expenditures amount to 250 billion dollars. Today only because the State budget of Ukraine, the state as a whole, allocates these 80 billion dollars a year in the state budget to cover this break-up of the Pension Fund, we are able to pay in full all the pension payments, even in the modest amounts that we have today. But as a result of this disastrous situation at the Pension Fund of Ukraine, it is impossible to talk about the substantial increase in pension payments, the significant increase in the quality of life of our pensioners. Yes, we can make some small indices, so we can change a little bit, raise the minimum of living, but a qualitative breakthrough in the pension security of our citizens in today's solidarity system cannot be secured by the state. And we all have to make this clear before society, that's clearly what we have to say to the citizens, but we have to find out the facts, we have to sit down, we have to put our hands together, we can't say anything, we can't do anything, we don't know what to do. No, the authorities have to show and the authorities today have shown that we have a way of developing a European pension system, we have a way of changing the situation in the pension system. And this path is not invented by us, this path that exists in all the civilized countries of the world is the way to implement a three-level pension system. The goal of our policy today is to build a multi-level, multi-component pension system that will allow us to improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens and allow us to pay pensions from three different sources: the solidarity system, the accumulation system and the non-state pension system. I want to say right away that the proposed government bills are clearly in the process of implementing the coalition agreement. It is in the coalition agreement that the principles of the implementation of the accumulation system and the development of non - state pension funds are recorded. Therefore, the main thrust of pension reform is to set order and establish social justice in a solidarity system. The second is the introduction of a accumulation system, the third is the appointment of all types of pensions according to a single law and the transition to the only principles of pension. Fourth, the development of non-state pension insurance. As far as the solidarity pension system is concerned. I would like to say immediately that the issue and the government in this matter is firmly on the same footing so that the assignment of pensions must be carried out in accordance with a single law. The special pension system in Ukraine must be abolished, all prosecutors, Ukrainian national deputies, ministers, tax collectors, judges should be granted a pension under the single law as well as for all Ukrainian citizens. That is why this principle is enshrined in today’s pension reform. The second question is the introduction of a build-up system. The main goal of the stockpiling system is to reduce the burden on the solidarity system, create individual accumulations of citizens, and personalize the pension system. We are changing the ideology of the general approach to the pension system, to the pension future, when every person will be involved in shaping his pension future. This is the personal responsibility of a person who will be the size of his pensions in the future. We're talking to society today: friends, everything in your hands, you want more pensions -- you're going to have these possibilities. And the state gives you this kind of toolbox as a accumulation system, in the form of the development of non-state pension insurance, the development of a accumulation system. And it's also involving a powerful investment resource that's going to work for the economy to work for the economy. In particular, if you take the example of our neighbouring countries, particularly in Poland today, after the accumulation of the stockpiling system, its resource, which revolves around the economy of Poland, is now 71 billion euros. Another fundamental moment is the legalization of wages. We're moving away from the general slogans on legalization to specific principles. It is the accumulation system that will stimulate people to show their legitimate earnings. Today, people do not understand why they need to legalize and pay contributions to the Pension Fund. Once we've adopted the pension changes, we'll show you, man, you have a personal account. You form your own pension. If you want a higher pension, legalize your income and watch your money move. A very important issue is the personification and the possibility of an inheritance or an inheritance of pensions. So pension savings are a citizen's property, pension savings can be passed on as an inheritance. If a person doesn't reach his retirement age and, God forbid, he dies -- he can, his heirs can use the part of the accumulation system that man has accumulated. This is a very important social aspect -- the introduction of a accumulation system. The government proposes to launch a stockpiling system as of January 1, 2017. Because we understand very well that the accumulation system can only be introduced at the stage of economic recovery, at the stage of economic development. And that's why January 1, 2017, is the best way for us to implement the accumulation system. We predict that the accumulation system will be mandatory for persons under 35 years of age and voluntary for persons over 35 years of age, up to 55 years of age. The starting rate will be 2 percent of the pension, then it will increase by 1 percent annually, and it will reach 7 percent by 2022. In particular, I want to say that the increase in such a cumulative contribution will not increase the overall workload of the labor fund. All of this will take place as part of the current workload on the payroll fund without increasing it. So neither the pressure on businesses nor the pressure on citizens is going to increase. In particular, I would like to say on the State guarantees of the accumulation system. There are a lot of questions, and I want to say clearly and unequivocally: the bill has a very clear guarantee of the State's control and security over the preservation and prosperity of the savings system. To that end, the State is creating a stockpiling pension fund that creates a board of stockpiling funds that is actually under the strict control of the State to identify and administer the stockpiling system, to administer its funds. Once again, the State's safeguards for the accumulation system are clearly laid down in the laws of Ukraine. And the government guarantee is 100 percent. In addition, the funds involved will be managed in accordance with the fund's fund's fund-building approvals by the relevant asset management companies that will be collected at the open competition. And finally. I'd like to call on the Ukrainian people's deputies. There is now a great deal of interesting analysis in the media about the pension system. We have a week with you to settle the issue. We call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take real steps towards the implementation of pension reform and to vote on this reform next week at the beginning of June this year in order to give a powerful signal that this power, this coalition, this Supreme Council of Ukraine is capable of reforming. It is capable of reforming not for reform, not for the way it was in 2011, raising the retirement age by raising the insurance age. We can prove to society that without these harsh and punitive measures, we can see the way out, we can see the way out in the accumulation system, and we can carry out this reform and the dates off to all the critics who say there's no coalition, there's no power, this authority is incapable of doing anything and it's incapable of reform. I'd like that. I've seen literally, I have a few more minutes to get you to the really analytics that appear in the media today. A wonderful article, I would ask you all to read, at the "Ukrainian Week" of the famous economist of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vitali Melniczuk, who has been very professionally and professionally describing all the problems of today's pension system and showing the way out, has shown. Described everything, the entire experience of countries around the world of establishing a accumulation system. I don't want to tell you this article. Read for yourself. I'll just look at the last paragraphs of his article, which are the following: that the implementation of the accumulation system will have a powerful multiplicative impact on the socio-economic situation of Ukraine. This was the case in Poland where the implementation of the pension reform and the implementation of the stockpiling system allowed Poles, unlike Ukraine, to undergo the world crisis painlessly in 2008-2010. Pension reforms in Europe and the implementation of the stockpiling system have had a major impact on the improvement of the socio-economic life of other countries. And that's what a very important expert writes: the window of opportunity is now open. It is important that all of us do not lose our chance to bury matters in conversation and population today. So I urge the national MPs to unite and vote for the next week in the first reading of the government’s bill. We are ready to continue working with the Committees of the Supreme Council, and we are ready to continue explaining, explaining, revealing the contents of the accumulation system. But this step -- this important step for the future pension of Ukraine -- we must do with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u3	Thank you, Minister. I invite you to the words of Paul Petrenko, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u4	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies, Honorable Ukrainian People! It is really important to raise the issue of the many reforms that are taking place in this session room. This is also about the reform of the law enforcement system, and it's about the law that votes on anti-corruption. But the fundamental reform that every Ukrainian citizen feels is decentralization. This reform is that when a simple Ukrainian comes to a government body, and he encounters bureaucracy, with the pull, with the queues, with the dissipation of that government official, who is appointed from Kiev, he doesn't accept any other reform. Because he feels that the state does not care about the issues that apply to every ordinary Ukrainian. Thus, the Ministry of Justice, together with the factions of the coalition, has developed two comprehensive bills that are now in the session hall, which are now supported and signed by the national deputies involved in the decentralization of the provision of services and services. I just want you to have a few of these bills right now. Because I think we're going to vote for them in the coming sessional days. The bottom line is this. The first is the main one. This is the transfer of authority over the registration of real estate and business directly to local authorities. We generally believe that the city’s head, the city’s deputies, and the local authorities, who are closest to the local community, are the most interested in providing quality services. Because it is these people who are accountable and controlled directly by the local community. So the basic philosophy of this law, which we have developed in conjunction with the factions of the coalition, is that we hand over authority with money and with responsibility to the local communities. The second and the most basic. We determine that the State and the Ministry of Justice will not deal with these services directly. Because we've seen in the last few years what was built by previous ministers. In fact, what happened. A centralized structure was created for government officials who did not actually provide services, but engaged in conquest and domestic corruption. The State will not do these services. These services will be carried out directly by local authorities, once. And we're going to create demonopolization in this area. The third basic principle that we have laid down in this bill is the introduction of the principle of extraterritoriality. I want to explain to our Ukrainian citizens what this means. If you have a company in Kiev, you know that huge queues in registration services. You can make any changes to the statute, re-register this company in any city in Ukraine. So there's an extraterritorial principle of business registration across Ukraine. This is the money that was introduced in Georgia, Poland, in Eastern European countries. And it works perfectly well. And it allows for the discomfort and discomfort created by Ukrainian citizens by order and bureaucracy. So we're also introducing the possibility of providing electronic services. In recent such commissions, when the Ministry of Justice, with your help, introduced electronic services to the services that we are currently providing in the field of business registration, and this is about the provision of help and statements of so-called so-called services, we have received the maximum benefit. Let me explain why. By the last year, some one and a half million Ukrainians had applied to the registration services each year to obtain statements and information on business registration. It was queues, it was corruption, it was huge negatives for all authorities. What we did. Along with you, when we passed the Deregulation Act, we predicted that these manuals and statements could be obtained electronically and that the help received electronically had the same legal power as paper aid. The state of affairs is now being operated by an electronic service on a website of the Ministry of Justice that allows every Ukrainian, without any problems in 30 seconds, to get a statement from a register, a reference to a company or a company. And in fact, he doesn't have to stand in line and he doesn't have to deal with asking a specific public official for information that's generally available. We're proposing in our complex laws that we translate virtually all the registrations, we're talking about registering the company; changing the location of the company; changing the management of the company; registering the real estate, and also allowing our Ukrainians alternatively to do all these functions in electronic format. Ukraine is ready for this and, I think, this is a serious step in deregulation that is expected by the Ukrainians. So the third major block of our reform that we're proposing is the introduction of as many electronic services as possible in the area of administration. The fourth is the main one. We're handing over all functions to the local authorities. We've held a lot of round tables, discussions, and, you know, when some experts say that our local authorities aren't ready, that they won't be able to do that, that there won't be any quality services, I want to publicly state from this rostrum that our local authorities and our citizens are more prepared for reform than even in the central authorities. And we saw that when we passed the authority on the formation of local budgets to the local communities. In just four months, the local budget is up to 40 percent. So I'm convinced that our local communities are most motivated by the fact that every Ukrainian living in a small town, in a village, in the area, got a good service. And this decentralization that involves not just the transfer of authority and responsibility, but also the transfer of money. It's about half a billion dollars that are coming into the government's administrative budget today. This money will pass on to specific local communities that will provide these services. This decentralization will once again confirm that Ukrainian local self - government today is institutionally capable of creating quality services for Ukrainian citizens. So I'm actually asking you very much that we adopt these laws as quickly as possible. Because any conversation, any discussion of the concept, it doesn't matter if we don't hand over these powers specifically to a small town, a village, a district, an area. And in principle, the Ministry of Justice over the past five years has only done what it has done. That's what I'm talking about. For the first time in the history of the Ministry of Justice, we give authority to local authorities. So, along with our powers, we share the same budget revenue. Thirdly, I also want to dispel the myths that are told by some experts that you are creating the opportunity for the private sector to provide these services in the same way. Yes, indeed, we pass these powers on to the notaries. I want to give you some simple examples. In the area of registration, there is a segment that deals with the registration of leases. It is about a million contracts each year that our peasants are obliged to come to registration services, to stand in line, to ask government officials to register this contract, which allows every peasant to get a sack of Greek wheat or a sack of wheat for his own pie. Three months ago, together with the Ukrainian Parliament, we adopted amendments to the law, where we allowed government officials to register these land and notaries. I want to give you the first positive examples of this novel: only in the last month about 10 percent of land leases, 100,000 contracts, were registered in notaries. Without any order, without any corruption, without any humiliation from our Ukrainians, our peasants were able to do it in any notary in the territory of the area. And I think that notaries are ready to register all kinds of real estate -- institutionally capable communities, they're connected to the register, they're trained, they're professional, they're 7,000 notaries, they're actually creating an opportunity for every Ukrainian to choose. If the city’s head or local officials are inequitable in a certain area, it did not create a service, it creates domestic corruption, the Ukrainian has a choice: he goes to the notary, registers his apartment, registers his house and his land. That's why we're introducing the principle of demonopolization in this law in the area of administration. Services, we suggest that Ukrainian notaries and Ukrainians and banks, which will be accredited if desired, also provide these services. I think it's our way and we can, if we adopt this law in the June months, we'll be able to show real results by autumn to every particular Ukrainian who comes and gets a service without queues, without bureaucracy and without bribes. So, my fellow Members, I very much ask you, for today, I know that in Parliament about 20 people's deputies of all factions of the coalition have supported and signed under these bills -- this is a big job that we've been doing together with you for the last two months. I'm asking you very much, I'm addressing the Head of Parliament, I'm addressing factions of the coalition, I'm addressing MPs from the opposition, because it's about ordinary Ukrainians, there's no advantage here, whether there's any privilege between coalitions or opposition. Support these bills, give real decentralization, pass these powers on to the local authorities, and we'll get positive literally in the first few months when these laws start to work. The Ministry of Justice on its part will hand over these functions as quickly as possible, we don't hold on to functions, we want to get to every little Ukrainian to finally get a sense of the reforms that relate to his apartment, his house, his land plot. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to come together on a common idea: decentralization in the field of administration, so that it is not a word to make it a real reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u5	Please, colleagues, we're done here. Please sign up for a question to the government. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Storobuk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u6	Please give the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u7	Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u8	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency. First of all, I want to comfort the Novovolinsky miners who are going to take action today to block the road through Bug. Mr. Demchisin has just announced that today the first 25 million will go for 10 mines. So please don't do any protest. But my question to Minister Klimkin, who is not here right now. Mr. Klimkin, by which time will our country and MMS not appoint ambassadors and there are no ambassadors in the following countries: Britain, Canada, Hungary, Norway, Sweden, Australia, Belarus? What time will we be looking for footage? That we don't have a diplomatic school to appoint our representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u9	Please finish. Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u10	These are the key players on the country's geopolitical map, and the MIP has been dragging our ambassadors into these key countries for months. And the last. You all need to know that there was a failure in the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u11	Please, Minister Demchishin. Demchikin? Deputy Minister? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u12	Thank you for your question, I'd be happy to answer -- First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Natalia Galibarenko -- since the minister is on a mission, he is participating in the Eastern Partnership Risk Summit. With regard to the procedure for assigning ambassadors, the key question is not when, but who? That is why there are appropriate consultations that have been made. And our job is not to speed up the assignment as much as to choose real professional and patriotic people who will be able to carry out their duties accordingly. As far as blocking the Czech communists of the Association Agreement, the issue of ratification in Parliament is concerned, this should not be asked by our embassy, and this should be done in direct parallel to what the Russian Federation does in the Czech Republic. And this is the direct result of the information propaganda that the Russian Federation is leading, which is the result of that lobbying campaign that Russia is running, including in the Czech Republic and other countries of Eastern Europe. We're aware of this, we're working with it, but once again, I stress that this is a question of a broader scale than just the actions of our embassies. So, of course, I can't accept that guilt should rely on a specific foreign diplomatic institution on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u13	Please, People's Deputies of Dobrodom, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u14	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'd like to give my word to my colleague Olga Chervakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u15	Good afternoon! I have a question, I'm sure, who will answer two questions. First, on March 6th, the President signed a decree stipulating preconditions for the establishment of a moral commission. The transitional provisions of this law stipulated that the commission should be abolished within three months, but no decision had even been issued yet. Please tell me why the state budget is still funding this institution, which is no longer mentioned in the law? And the second question is about beating up journalists on the Zik channel, we know that they were beaten first, and now they're blackmailing a criminal case based on Barwara Chobotar's statement about interference in private life. Could you inform us if there was really any interference there, and when will this blackmail of journalists stop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u16	Please. Colleagues, colleagues, who respond from the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Karandiev Rostislav, deputy minister of culture. The Ministry of Culture, in a new edition of the Law on the Protection of Social Morality, is defined as one of the key performers, namely, those who form state policies. We are now preparing appropriate proposals together with other participants in the process, namely, the State Agency for Film Affairs and Derteradio. These proposals are agreed upon by the respective central executive authorities. And I hope that they will be brought to the Cabinet of Ministers as soon as possible. We have a number of problems related, of course, to the staffing of this process, to the development of sub-legal acts, but we believe that they are being dealt with in an orderly manner and that in the near future the Supreme Council will be informed of the introduction of appropriate sub-legislative acts for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, national deputy Yuri Wozniak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u21	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. Dear Paul Valeriyovich, very many questions come from natural persons entrepreneurs, especially in the city of Chernigow, in the region of Chernigiv. In line with the method of calculating the total income of the family for all types of social assistance to the income of the natural person undertaking, the total amount of money it receives goes without taking into account its cost of providing services. For example, if the FOP account for 2014 received 50,000 dollars, which accounted for only 15,000 dollars, and everything else, such as the cost of purchasing products or something else, the amount of the grant would be 50 thousand dollars. This will deprive all FOP subsidies that have conducted their business honestly and paid taxes. So the question is whether the calculation method will be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u22	Dear Lord People's Deputy of Ukraine! The thing is that the methodology for calculating total income in this grant reform has not changed, so this methodology has been in place over the last ten years, let's say. There's nothing new here. But nevertheless, we know this problem, and now the State Tax. there is a corresponding commission, there are government tax administrations, there are government financials, there is a corresponding commission, how to take into account the income from entrepreneurial activities, such as the FOP, in the calculation of the subsidy system. I think I'm convinced that these changes will soon be introduced into the methodology of the subsidy system -- and this question will be removed. So the government is working on it now. Indeed, such questions had not been raised before, since this category of citizens did not normally apply for subsidies. But in view of the fact that we have extended the right of every citizen to seek social assistance, this question is now resolved and.. it has arisen, and we will respond to it promptly. So thank you for your attention, this will be done, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u23	Please, National Deputy Alexander Dudenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u25	The People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u26	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. I actually wanted to ask the Minister of Finance. Neither is the Prime Minister, so the question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Zubko. One of the main challenges of the mining and metallurgical complex to date is the timely return of VAT. As at 1 April 2015, the debt owed to enterprises was already more than 5.6 billion grevens. Monthly reimbursement dropped by 47 per cent, and now it has dropped to 28 per cent. In addition, major exporting producers such as Ilic, Azovstall, Zaporoztal, have been shut down since mid-May. Market today. There is no domestic market, 90 per cent export. Foreign prices fell by 38 per cent. Please tell me how the industry, which provides 25 per cent of the foreign exchange income, can survive in these conditions. There are 350,000 people working, a million in total. How can you survive under these conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u27	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u28	How can we survive in these conditions, and how can we build an economy? How can we organize the work of our economy's core backbone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u29	Thank you. And I'd like that. Hennady Grigorovich, there was a question to the Ministry of Internal Affairs from the People's Deputy Cervakov. I ask you to answer this question and then what has just been asked by the deputy of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question about the Ministry of Internal Affairs to consider it an official request and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u31	I ask the IMF to consider your official request, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs will prepare an official answer to the question asked by the national MP. Thank you. What is involved in Mr. Matvienkov’s question. I'd like to put the Opposition Block back into reality a little bit, yes, and remind you that there's military aggression in the Shiroki saw of Mariupol. And if we now mention that 25 percent of the economy is lost on account of the position of Ukrainian citizens who have been deceived by Russian propaganda, let's or let's work together to resolve the issues of specific large companies called Illicha, Austali. That's why I'd like to ask. We've got VAT payments on the machine right now. 2014 Wait, don't shake your head. 2014 – the compensation was automatic. The debt that was incurred in 2013 may not have been repaid by the end of 2012. But, I'm sorry, these are the calculations of other people who had to figure it out. Please, I am willing to engage in every major enterprise that is in debt today. I would like to invite you, Alexia White, to sit with me next week. I'd like to invite a deputy minister of finance or a minister of finance. And we'll take a look at VAT. I understand that this is a trade, these are the things that allow today to pay the wages of a large number of people in Mariupola. The only thing I'd like from tariff issues, VAT issues, is to take away the political component of industrial enterprises right now. We need to work clearly on the things that will allow us to get out of the crisis situation in Ukraine, which is about military aggression, which is about the decline of the economy. Above all, we need to unite around these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u32	Thank you for your answer. Please, People's Deputy Lechchenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u33	Good morning, distinguished members of the government. Questions to Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk, who is absent from this session hall. Two hours a month to go, to report to Parliament is not that much. Therefore, I would like the Head of the Supreme Council to report on the reasons for the absence of a prime minister. And I'm asking you to give me an answer, perhaps, to the Minister of Energy. Last time you reported that 2 billion dollars from the Scrooge needs to be held by shareholders. Tell me, why would you do that? We can get a board of supervisors for the next week that's already authorized to gather after the new law that we've fought so hard for comes into effect. And by next week, change the management of the Ukranafta to state representatives. Finally, the budget will receive 2 billion dollars just from dividends that have already been paid for 7 months. I'm not talking about a rent that should be paid in the same way. Mr. Volodymyr, will you gather the Scrooge Supervisory Board next week? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u34	Please, Yuri. The answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u35	Mr. Leschenko, thank you for asking. In fact, after May 26, really, in line with the changes voted by the Council two months ago, it is possible to hold a meeting of the Supervisory Board. And at this meeting, we'll make decisions on the replacement of the Scrooge Management. I told you the last time that really, there's going to be a supervisory board. And in principle, after this meeting, there will also be meetings, and general meetings will be held. And at these two meetings, all necessary decisions will be taken to run this business. At present, there are no other remedies in the legal field. That's why I'm offering to wait a little longer. There's not much left. After that, business will begin, decisions will be made. Well, you'll see exactly how the state maintains its influence on this enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u38	Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u39	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for Mr. Habakkuk, the minister of the interior, who is missing for some reason today. As I understand it, there are no members of the Ministry of Interior at all today, and that's very bad, because this week, on Tuesday night, an extraordinary event took place in Kiev. And that's what happened near the Osocary subway around the illegal roadblock that's going on there. And instead of protecting people, instead of protecting the community, the police coordinated their actions, with some aunts in the balaclava, and it was all against the background that 30 people were injured, activists, activists were detained, the movement was blocked down the millet. And I have a question, when will the police finally stop covering the outsiders in Kiev, and when will the real responsibility of the minister and all his subordinates to the vachanal that is taking place today in the capital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u40	Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u41	I think that in the same way, the official request that you've made to the IMF, the answer will officially come to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, the people's representative of Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u44	Vladimir Parasuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u45	. I want to ask the Minister of Defense, who doesn't exist, why are the boys on the Yavorovski range still out of shape, and when journalists come to film, they're buried so they don't see all the shame. I want to ask Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk if he got gas payments because he got half of Ukraine in his cheek. Whom should I ask? There's no one to ask, 'cause everybody doesn't give a shit. And now, essentially. I want to ask you, why do 15 percent of the tax still apply to pensioners who have this minimum pension, 1,200 dollars? This is a fact because there is a turning point. And finally, to Mr. Head. Yesterday they came up, they came up to him, and it was said that yesterday was a great day, that a great journalist, Gongadze, was born yesterday. And yesterday, even for a second, we did not honor the memory of this heroic personality, for yesterday we all went and rejoiced in the great festival, so let us now stand up and honor the memory of this man. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to officially inform you that the National Deputy has not approached me and has not asked this question at all. Dude, I'm underlining this. You're then, if you're right, give me the records, and then I'll confirm. You didn't mind taking a word on any of the questions and saying it yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u47	You asked me to speak to you about informing you about the work of the commission, asking questions about the work of the commission. I'll just say it. Yesterday there was a oral appeal to me when I examined one of the questions to provide information on the investigation of the death of George Gongadze. It was. And there was no such question to honor the memory of this outstanding figure. And it was supposed to be done yesterday. Even I would have announced it from the very beginning of our parliamentary session. Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Volodymyr, I want to answer the questions about pension taxation. In fact, as of today, pensions are taxed only to working pensioners and only on an amount that exceeds one and a half living minimum. That's more than 1 thousand 700 bucks. If there are specific facts with a specific name, please either a request or pass it on to me right now, we're going to work it out and give a reasoned answer to who, where, where, where they ask something. But I, for example, have no such facts. So let's say there's a failure, there might be. We are ready to consider all these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Yuri Bereza, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u50	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u51	Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to welcome Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk, with his birthday, who today is the Prime Minister of our country. And I would like to welcome another famous poet named Yuri Ribczynski, who really wrote one of the best songs in the modern Ukrainian estrangement, with the birthday he has today. [[Applause]] And the question is short for the government and everyone in the room. Now, the National Board of Television and Radio is discussing the extension of the 10-year "Inter" channel license, which is based on unknown offshore companies that, according to the press, finance terrorism. There's no evidence that we don't have this Ukrainian company. The Minister of Information is not here, the government is silent to the MPs. This group of companies stole 20 percent of the holding fund, copied it free of charge. Why does the government not pay attention to this, and the court does not require the return of state property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u53	That's exactly what I'm asking you to do, prepare a request and we'll work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Egor Sobolev "self-help".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u55	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u56	Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u57	Irina Sisoyenko's faction of Self-Help. I have a question for the Minister of Health. Minister, all of Ukraine has been waiting more than six months for you to start reforms in the health system. In April, we were meeting with you and the coalition factions, and you presented that package of bills from which this reform should begin. Please tell me if you plan to submit this package of bills in the near future, and if so, when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. At the next meeting of the Cabinet, we present the whole package, which was completed just yesterday after the consultations of the Monetary Fund and the World Bank, they support these bills. This was necessary because they were in a framework treaty with the International Monetary Fund. So we are all ready for the next meeting of the Kabmin, and we will immediately take the matter to the Supreme Council for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u59	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u60	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. On numerous occasions, when citizens are in the district, there is one simple question to be heard from you personally, and to be heard by all the voters, that after the adoption of the law that you have, in fact, presented in our hall today, will there be an honest accrual of pensions? So it's not going to be the same thing as who worked, and the one who didn't work the same pension for a day in his life has to be some kind of justice, say it to the whole state?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u61	I'm a perfectly clear supporter of this formula. Unfortunately, that pension balance, which was introduced in due course for political reasons during the President's 2004 election, began to be compared to virtually all pensions, who worked their whole lives, who didn't work the day it wasn't a disgraceful story. And in my opinion, it's going to be extremely difficult to get away from it now, but Ukraine has to go this way. The pension fund should be a classic insurance organization that has to pay the pension exclusively depending on how many people worked and how much they paid. A man has been working properly all his working life, 30-40 years, he has to get a high pension. I'm sorry, I've been drinking, I've been walking, I don't know what I've been doing, I can't get any payments from the Pension Fund. It's a classic system. Because now the paradox is that the teacher worked, smelled 40 years on a small salary, came into the Pension Fund and got a thousand dollars. A person who hasn't worked a day comes to the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund says you have a pension of zero dollars, but we're a social state, we're setting you a pension at a minimum of 949 dollars. Where is justice, people ask? Hence, only pension payments can provide social assistance from the Pension Fund, but on one condition, financial, property checks on the condition of every person seeking social services. So that there's not a shadowing of income, or a tinning of wages, and the first step in this pension reform is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, People's Republic Deputy Droeuk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u63	Please give the word to Alexander Drozdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u64	I want to speak to Paul Rosenck. Mr. Minister, I have a question for you, please tell me, do you have a conscience? Now you've told us a lot about what great reformist actions you've done and you've passed a very positive bill. But I'd like to ask you why you've never been present at a committee meeting? Why were you not present at the meeting to consider this issue, on pension insurance? At the same time, you are engaged in populism and what you said is not true. I believe that your statements, which you spoke to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u65	Please finish ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u66	your statements are invalid. And you, at least, should have apologized to all the members of the committee. And to comment on the actions or decisions of the committee, we need to be present.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u67	Mr. People's MP, representative of the People's Front, I would like to point out that the bill was not filed by Paul Rosenko, the minister of social policy, who signed the government under the signature of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. This is not my own initiative, although this reform has indeed been developed in the Ministry of Social Policy with the involvement of a large circle and a wide range of experts and social policy professionals. So this is government reform, this is a consolidated position of government, this is the consolidated position of all of us who are offering you this reform to approve and support. And I'm addressing you personally, for all the coalition members, to do it in a week. As for the presence or absence of the committee, the ministry and, in fact, the team is not only the minister, the entire team of the Ministry that drafted the law was present at the committee meeting. So to say that you couldn't figure something out or you weren't there -- you know, either we want to carry out reforms, or we're looking for any reason not to carry out reforms. Either we conduct, or we search, or we say, why you are not present at the meeting, why your deputy has not such a hairstyle or something like that. There were two deputy ministers, the head of the Pension Fund, experts working on reform. At this time, I had a meeting of a socio-economic tripartite committee with trade unions and employers. People gathered from all over Ukraine. The committee was, well, suddenly asked. It would be disrespectful if I did not show up with people who had come from all over Ukraine. So the position of ministries, the position of the government was represented at a committee meeting, and there was no need to look for reasons not to reform. So I urge you to gain political courage on Tuesday, to abolish the system of special pensions in Ukraine, which is currently under discussion, to introduce a build-up system -- and to show Ukraine's path to developing a pension system in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the time for questions to the government is over. I'd like to consult with you in the next, distinguished colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your place, colleague! You have already asked questions. Dear colleagues, the time is spent asking questions. If you have any questions, you can go to the minister and talk to him. Dear colleagues, I have an offer that we have discussed regarding the effectiveness of our activities with you. It's about that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, here's the deal. We've got 11 hours to ask you. There's a proposal that we have 11 o'clock -- we have a row there, four or five important laws -- that we move the questions to then, and now from 11 o'clock, we start looking at issues, making decisions, laws that we didn't approve yesterday. But this requires our responsibility with you, my friends, and requires a successful vote, that is, 226. Moreover, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you now to consider the possibility of transferring requests and this will mean the willingness of Parliament's deputies to consider matters of order. Please, Your Honor, invite the national deputies to the hall. And now there's going to be a proposal to read out questions after considering issues of order, namely: draft laws of Ukraine. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Please take your seats. I would like to ask the heads and national deputies to take their seats. The ministers please leave the government's bed. Thank you to the ministers. Only those remain, which are now being considered in legislation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to postpone the application. After considering issues of order, laws. I'm asking you to vote, colleagues. Wait a minute! Stop! Colleagues, we are voting on the postponement of the debate, and this will testify to Parliament's readiness to make relevant important decisions. Please vote and support this proposal for the transfer of requests and the consideration of agenda issues. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! We vote for this important proposal. [[11:08:36]] For 215, Yeah, 215. We're not concentrating. Again. Calm down! Let's do it again. We must show our will, my friends. Let's get to work. Please. Ready? Vote, colleagues, transfer, and start consideration of draft laws. One minute, one minute, ready. So, what? We're voting, colleagues, on transfer of requests and consideration of draft laws. Please vote. Please. Please support this proposal. That's better. [[11:10:25]] For 234 234, factions, colleagues. The factions. Okay. Transferred queries. Let's start the discussion. Dear colleagues, a draft Law (registration number 2931) on taxation of income received by nonresidents on debts is being introduced for inclusion in the agenda. Project of the People's Deputy, Woznouk Yuri Volodymirovich. For inclusion in the agenda and for making decisions today. And making a decision on that. And making a decision, 2931. Integrating in the agenda and making decisions, offering people's deputies. Vote, Your Honor. [[11:11:33]] For 218. 218, please, Dudenkov. People's Deputies, one minute. One minute. One minute. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. The Opposition Block faction does not support the specified bill 2931 for what reasons. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now we're being asked to put into order a daily bill that creates unreasonable benefits, tax benefits for non-residents who are nominal holders of state securities and local, external loans. Ukraine now has an external sovereign debt portfolio of $70 billion. Accordingly, about $20 billion has been nominated in securities. Accordingly, the State does not receive more than $100 million as a result of the adoption of these bills, which is 2.2-2.5 billion dollars. On the one hand, we don't vote for pension indexation; on the other hand, we give undue benefits to nonresidents. I urge you not to support this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u72	We haven't included it yet. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u73	The honourable people, the honourable chairman, part of the people's deputies took this vote as a summary and voted "Restraint". So the request to re-enter the agenda and I think we'll get enough votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u74	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. A constructive offer. 2931 draft law, the issue of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. 2931. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Please vote, colleagues. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions according to the proposal of the national deputies. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:13:52]] For 221 We didn't make it, did we? Guys, let's do it again. We have to keep working. Please. Colleagues, 2931 for inclusion in the order of the day and decision-making. Please support this proposal and vote on inclusion in the agenda and decision 2931. Please. Vote! [[11:14:34]] For 224 That's better. Once again, please 224. Please do it again. Once again, please 2931 enrollment in the agenda and decision-making, we vote. Vote. Please, let us support the proposal of the national deputies for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. [[11:15:05]] For 228 Yes, it's on. Thank you. Next, colleagues, another draft law to review the previously unsupported issue and to make decision 2743 on first reading, I stress, on the basis of only. The question of the institutional capacity of the National Bank. Please vote back on the previously unsupported question and decision-making. Please vote. Please vote, please support. 2743, please. 2743, please. [[11:15:55]] For 263 Thank you, Your Honor. Please. By law, we can consider draft law 2743. We're voting on the basis. On the ground, we vote. We discussed it yesterday. 2743 on the basis of the vote. Based on 2743, based on. Just on the ground. And now you're going to say proposals, we're going to count them. On the ground, and then we'll have Lavrik's proposals. 2743 on the ground. Stop, stop, stop. Oleg Lavrick, then the offer, right? Victor Halasyuk? Victor Halasyuk? Oleg Lavrick, please. He co-reported him yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we discussed draft Law 2743 for a very long time yesterday. We are ready to support the bill in the first reading on the condition that we exclude the first and second paragraphs of the bill, i.e. we exclude the possibility of giving projections exclusively to the government and remove such responsibility from the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you. So we support the exclusion of the first and second points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u76	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction will support this bill in the first reading. We agree that part of the income to the Nazbank distribution should be determined after the approval, after the international audit. But at the same time, we strongly disagree with taking down the obligation of the National Bank of Ukraine to report and submit monetary policy indicators. We think that these corrections that remove these powers from the National Bank actually lead not to an increase in its institutional capacity, but rather to an increase in its institutional capacity. So we support it if we rule out what I just said to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please ask your colleagues, normally, this is a compromise decision, please, on a basis, when preparing for the second reading to take account of the bill. Based on the amendments made by Lavrik and Halasyuk. Yeah? Yes. Please vote on the basis of the amendments that have been made by Lavrik the People’s Deputy and Halasyuk the People’s Deputy. Draft Law (registration number 2743) on the basis of the vote, please vote on the basis. [[11:19:31]] For 267 Thank you. Decision taken. Guys, let's move on. 2931, dear colleagues, we have just made a decision. The first reading suggests that the author, Yuri Wozniak, consider it as a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to make up your mind about reviewing the reduced procedure. Please be determined, colleagues. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[11:20:01]] For-183 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Yuri Wozniak. Let me know, mate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u79	Honorary colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, your opinion is proposed in Bill 2931 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Nonresidents on Debt Liabilities. I ask all members of the coalition to respond responsibly to this bill. What is he talking about? It refers exclusively to government securities, government bonds, and sovereign liabilities. Since January 1, a standard has been in force that says that an external investor who purchased government securities pays a dividend tax of 15 percent. This has a very and very negative impact on the involvement of external investment in our nation's economy. Today, the state is planning to release new securities, new bonds, and an external investor asking us to cancel this rule so that he can invest in our economy and sustain today's difficult state of our nation. So I ask all members of the coalition to support this bill on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u80	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u81	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Head, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, reviewed the draft law amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (Registration No. 2931). During the discussion of the bill at the National Deputies meeting, members of the committee expressed their support for the bill and outlined the same standards that had been in force in Ukraine for 15 years. And only on January 1, 2015, were they accidentally removed when we passed a law in December that completely reformed this unit on the taxation of legal persons. This situation has led to a lively negative reaction by investors, creditors of Ukraine, which has a significant impact on their decisions regarding the further purchase of Ukrainian government securities, increased the value of loans, and had significant reputational risks. I mean, we're restoring the standard that we've had in Ukraine for 15 years. No one in this room needs to explain that our country needs financial flows. Therefore, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. Please two for, two for against. National MP Wesselov, please, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u83	I give you my word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to restore the standards that were and were in force in the Tax Code until January 1, 2015. According to these standards, it is proposed not to tax income received by nonresidents in the form of interest or discount income on government securities or local loans. It's all about government securities. I want to point out that about $43 billion for today is in Ukraine of external borrowing, of which about 17 billion are Eurobonds, which are tools that are freely rotating in the market, and their owners can change literally every 15 minutes. The rest of the loan is two, or multilateral agreements, are our agreements with the IMF, with Ibiardi, with the World Bank. These are bilateral creditors such as Eurocomisi, U.S. governments, Germany, and Japan. Accordingly, when we signed and became parties to these multilateral creditors, we committed ourselves to implementing their statutes. How do we now, according to this Tax Code, with the editorial that is now, can we keep taxes from them, from the income that we pay them? It's completely illogical, it doesn't understand our creditors. That's why it's only proposed on government securities, exclusively, to tax non-residents' incomes and not tax them as it was all of Ukraine's years of independence. So we ask everyone to support this bill on the basis and in general to implement that structural beacon of the IMF, which today is after the restructuring of Ukraine's external debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction insists on supporting the tax committee's decision. We must now adopt this law as a whole. But at the same time, I want to emphasize that we have to do this in an order of exclusion. Because, in fact, we have to create powerful incentives for tax, investment, regulatory for a domestic producer, for all industries. We have to go through the painful points where we have potential for growth, where we can increase production, where we can create new jobs, where we can increase exports and give strong tax preferences to those sectors. Just like we did with you yesterday, or yesterday, with woodworking equipment, so we have jobs in every industry to create new jobs, to create investment opportunities not only for foreign investors who give us loans or loans or help, but to create those investment opportunities for a domestic investor who in Ukraine creates jobs that pay taxes that fills the Ukrainian budget and pays off wages and pensions. So, dear fellows, once again, I urge you, in order to get billions of government guarantees and to receive today's credit investment resources, to support this bill as a whole, but to call on the Minister of Economics here, to demand, in every particular area, proposals for the development of these sectors, for the creation of jobs, for the involvement of investment, for the promotion of exports. And we, as national deputies, will support such legislative initiatives. If this is not done by the Ministry of Economics and Government, we will continue to do so, as we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u88	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, we understand the logic of our colleague Wozniak, so I understand, not only his, but they are backed by executive power. Well, how can we demand taxes from those who have decided to help the State of Ukraine and to redeem its debt? Do we still want to tax this? Well, then, who will then buy off the government’s debt? I think it was a mistake when this decision was adopted, and it needs to be corrected. Therefore, our faction supports the making of such changes. And those who buy off the government’s debt still bear their burden. Therefore, extra taxation is certainly pointless. We'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u89	Dobrenkov, Opposition Block. We'll hear the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u90	Hello, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Presidency, respected citizens of Ukraine! What do they propose to vote on now? Many statements have now been made by coalition representatives to the effect that the bill aims to increase investment attractiveness, to increase the attractiveness of the State-simulated debt instrument. In fact, it is very cynical to hear after Tuesday's vote that Kabmin has the right to declare a technical default on the relevant external government securities. It is proposed, inter alia, that the bill does not impose taxes on residents (i.e., the income of residents, non-income) derived from debt securities placed in external markets and local loans guaranteed by the State. What does that mean? From the 70 billion debt that the State has, 20 billion have been nominated in government securities. [[B in m in s a l in]] Accordingly, in these 20 billion government securities, it is a profit of one and a half billion dollars. Accordingly, it will not be paid to the public budget, it is only on government securities, more than $100 billion. This is about 2.5 billion bracelets that could receive the State budget and be directed towards social benefits, pension indexation and so on. It has to be noted that it has been said that it is unfair to tax foreign investors. Why is the bill not exempt from taxation for domestic investors who purchase not only external government bonds but also domestic government bonds? They must pay, and they must not pay – a very good approach! Dear coalition, who are you working for now? To foreign investors, freeing them from their profits? Or to the Ukrainian people when you do not vote on the indexation of pensions and social benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u91	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, "Peter Duster's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to one problem. I'm a supporter of all incomes to be taxed. But there is one problem. A few days ago, you voted on a law that contains a large list of government commitments that offer them the opportunity to restructure. These commitments have already been made, the bonds have been issued. For example, there is a commitment in 2005. There is a prospectus for the issue of Ukrainian bonds. There's a coupon rate. After the government has passed and Parliament has approved the law under which this income is taxed, we may have problems because we have to guarantee that income. Right after the tax. And Minfin can't pay. Count more revenue than is provided in the prospectus. Problems will arise with those who purchased Ukrainian bonds. And the country is risking legal lawsuits. So there's a proposal: to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, please, have a vote on the draft Law (Registration No. 2931) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Nonresidents on Debt Liabilities. The draft of the national deputy Yuri Wozniak, who has just been heard from you, has information on him. There is a proposal to accept it as a whole. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please, get ready. 2931, colleagues, based. Take your seats, colleagues. On the basis and in general. Vote please, colleagues. On the basis and in general. Please vote, colleagues, an important law, let's support it. On the basis and in general. [[11:33:36]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Honorary colleagues, coalition factions made a proposal, and individual national deputies from different factions made a proposal to consider the registration number of Law 2852, 2852-1. Draft Act amending the final provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Retirement, on Retirement. After? Of course, it will be adopted after all other laws in the last order of the day. The last one in the daytime will be the law. 2852, 2852-1, introduced by the national deputy Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, national deputy Yuri Suhevich and a number of national deputies: Druzdik, Droeuk, Wesselova, Kaplin, Royal. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to include 2852, 2852-1 in the agenda to review the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law amending certain legislation on pension insurance. As far as retirement is concerned. There is an offer to include it in the agenda for making a decision today last in the daytime. Please prepare for the vote and please vote. 2852, 2852-1 - inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:35:38]] For 244 244, decision taken, Your Honor. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Draft Law Registration No. 2862, Government Law, Minister of Justice will report. There is a proposal by the Minister of Justice to review the draft Law in a simplified manner. Please decide on the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:36:10]] For 186 Please, Justice Minister Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! An extremely important bill. I want to tell you the main innovations of this bill. The committee that considered the bill unanimously supported it and even suggested that it should be voted on as a whole. The head of the subcommittee will now report. We support such an offer. That's the point. This bill cleans up benefits in court for the prosecution and for the tax office, for the fiscal service. What are we talking about? To date, the prosecutor’s office and the fiscal office do not pay the court. Let me give you some statistics. District Administrative Courts, a system of administrative courts designed to protect a Ukrainian citizen from the state today, deal with 60 percent of the state's actions against a Ukrainian citizen. Fiscal authorities address each of their questions regarding checks to Ukrainian entrepreneurs, district courts, and why? And because it's very simple, they don't pay any legal fees, no court fees, and they use Ukrainian courts to blackmail Ukrainian businesses. The International Monetary Fund drew attention to this and said that it could not be that the public authorities had any preference over Ukrainian citizens and entrepreneurs who pay the court when they refer to a judge with appropriate lawsuits. We support that. And I'm asking that today we vote this law as a basis, and in general, the profiling committee said we shouldn't. The Special Committee has made such a warning that if we support this law to enter into force on 1 September this year, and not on 1 January 2016, they are ready for it to be adopted as a whole. I don't mind either. I'm asking you to support me. The law is right. And this law will really benefit Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian entrepreneurs, because the Tax Office and the Prosecutor's Office will not abuse their rights by making hundreds of thousands of lawsuits against the Ukrainian business. Please support in general and on the basis of this. We are ready for it to enter into force on September 1, this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u95	Colleagues, please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u96	It's a Southern. No, not Eugene. Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich. Any changes, any additions to the committee? The committee has put forward a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. I think we can put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u97	As of May 18, this bill was immediately considered on a profile committee, according to the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council. According to the explanatory note, this bill aims at establishing the only approaches for the formation and administration of the judiciary, doubling the funds that will be managed and made available to the State budget, thereby ensuring the independence, financial independence of the Ukrainian judicial system. During the discussion on the profile committee, the bill was supported on the basis. But given that there was a discussion and it was suggested that the bill would take effect not as of January 1, 2016, as the author suggested at first, but as of September 1, 2015, the committee supported such a position and could vote in favour of the bill on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, on the ground? Based on the base. All right, colleagues, on the ground. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Sign up for two, two for the other. Please, Olena Kocheljeva, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u99	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction will support this bill solely on the basis. There is a series of very useful standards. But, along with that bill, there is a substantial increase in the court's congregation, this time. Two, the removal of the upper table in the court, by physical property. Will it improve the lives of entrepreneurs? Not at all. Therefore, the Radical Party faction is firmly opposed to raising a judicial congregation for ordinary individuals, entrepreneurs, and so forth. It's not the State Fiscal Service. So, dear colleagues, we share the need to adopt a series of reforming norms that are set here. But we are definitely against the rise of the judicial congregation. We therefore vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u100	Colleagues, look, I think everyone wants to express their position. Is everyone insisting on this, on the performances? Are you all insisting? If this is about voting as a basis. They insist, don't they? Please, Peter Dustock's Block, Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u101	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u102	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u103	Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The fact is that the essence of this law, including the need to increase the appropriate rates of the judicial assembly, is twice as much as that of Ukraine as a direct commitment under the Memorandum of Economic Cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. This is the text of the memorandum before me and I'll just quote: "In accordance with the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy of the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine has committed itself" – please note: "not later in May 2015 will it be possible to adopt the Law amending the Law on the Judicial Assembly, according to which the Court of Justice's funds to the special State Budget Fund should double." Thus, we do not have time to accept this in the first and second readings, we are obliged to accept it as a whole by the end of May, today in the May session of Parliament. Please, Mr. Head, still place it in general, taking into account the appeal made by the Minister of Justice, to initiate such a kind of coming from September 1st of this year is a direct commitment. What is more, we have already informed the IMF that we will do it, at least in the larger and larger part. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! As the previous speaker pointed out, if double the budget’s income is to be doubled, it is not necessary to draw it from people. Please make absolutely logical and fair demands: to force the prosecutor to pay the court's fees, to force the tax office to pay the court's fees, but in order for this to happen, it is necessary for them to have funds for it once. And then it's impossible to enter from any number except 1 January, if there's no change in the state budget, and please double the government budget, but leave people alone. That is why this bill cannot be voted on as a whole, it can only be supported in the first reading by making substantial corrections and supplementing them properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u106	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u107	The distinguished Vladimir Borisovic, respected colleagues, the faction of the Opposition Block will categorically address the bill because it is actually anti-national. This bill restricts the access of ordinary citizens, natural persons whose income has fallen sharply as a result of the devaluation of the bracelet to justice. Why would access to justice be limited? First, I would like to say that, according to the current version of the Law on the Court of Justice, individuals may submit appeals or appeals or applications for review by the Supreme Court, paying 50 per cent of the cost of the claim. What is it now? 110 per cent appeal, 120 per cent cassation, 130 per cent review by the Supreme Court. There's someone here who's saying that it's going up twice or three times. For many legal persons, the price of the relevant court assembly is increasing by tens of times. How can I vote for that? What moral right do we have to restrict natural and legal persons, to defend their legal and legally protected rights in judicial institutions when there are no other bodies left to achieve justice and to obtain justice? I would like to say that who says that the bill introduces some good novelties, but there is a need to exclude an increase in the judicial assembly. 70 per cent of the bill contained a provision on which the court fee was increasing. If they do not agree with the increase in the judicial assembly, please refer to the finalization, but in no case can it be voted on as a basis. Because the concept of the law is fiscal and is aimed at raising funds in the form of a court fee from ordinary individuals, business entities and legal entities, thus limiting access to their justice, as I said earlier. Please do not support this bill or at least send it for finalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please! The Ptachnik People's Dept. from the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we would like, after all, to hear what Mr. Knazevitch said, that this is a requirement of the IMF and we don't have time to make changes to the second reading and so on. But I want to point out that there are some positions, we'd like to at least sort them out. In particular, in previous cases of lawsuits, the person’s incapacitated claim was dismissed from the court’s payment. Similarly, lawsuits were dismissed from the judicial congregation from the condemned to the deprivation of the person’s will. So the person convicted does not receive, does not work, and accordingly does not have the opportunity to make money to pay the court. But we understand that this is a requirement of the IMF then we now propose to vote on the first reading and to consider it in a simplified procedure for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u110	Please redefinition Victor Halasyuk's proposal. The point is that the first, the second reading of the reduced procedure will be after May 25th and we'll do it here. I'd better find a common ground right now, vote it out in general with a minimum. Maybe some things are just removed from there right now, discussionable and then discussed. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u111	Victor Halasyuk. The Radical Party faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction is now proposing to adopt this bill as a whole, only if it removes all the rules relating to the promotion of the court, once. As well as all the standards that invalidate the upper limit of the judicial congregation, there are two. So we're adopting the right reform law, we're doing what's necessary for our foreign donors and partners, but we're not putting an extra financial burden on our entrepreneurs, on our individuals, on people we haven't yet indexed wages and pensions. This is the condition under which the Radical Party faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. It was supposed to be the essence of this project, please, the minister's position? We're going to continue to define, or we're going on the road, on the basis of, and we're going to work on a reduced procedure, or we're going to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head! I am deeply grateful for the constructive position of the Coalition faction, particularly the Radical Party. I also think that we really need to approach this issue from the point of view of citizens, ordinary Ukrainian citizens. So there's a warning in your proposal. When it comes to a Ukrainian citizen who, for example, is suing for breaking up a marriage, there is no question of getting any compensation from the state. But if we're talking about, for example, lawsuits of hundreds of millions of dollars that are not addressed by Ukrainian citizens and that are addressed by appropriate companies with offshore owners in the oligarch wars, we can't set a ceiling here. What do our international experts tell us? Your courts are overloaded with those cases that are used as a tool in the fight between different financial and industrial groups. And an ordinary Ukrainian citizen in connection with the fact that three million cases are being dealt with today, respected colleagues, in the Ukrainian courts. For example, in the United States in a year, in a country where 200 million people are being tried, 2.5 million are being tried, and in Ukrainian courts there are 3 million cases. A Ukrainian citizen, because the courts are actually overloaded, does not have normal access to justice. Because I'm offering as a compromise, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u114	Yeah. As far as family disputes are concerned, as far as Ukrainian citizens are concerned before the courts, let's leave the top line accordingly. Everything about government bodies that had benefits, everything about commercial matters, where hundreds of millions of millions of people are applying to companies -- let's leave it in the line proposed by the committee, it's going to be a compromise, it's going to be fair. Please vote, but we don't have time, we have to adopt this law by the end of May. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u115	This option can be acceptable – what did the minister say? Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u116	Sobolje, Fatherland. We are willing to vote in general if an amendment is included that changes to the funds will be made for the prosecutors and the tax authorities. Otherwise, they will not be able to speak at all. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u117	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u118	If this is agreed: the holding fund, the prosecutor's office and the tax office, and then we vote. And the Gaussian amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u119	And so, and so, colleagues, a minute. So I suggest, with the correction of Sergey Sobolev, with the amendment of Halasyuk. Not Gallasyuk. Come on, Petrenko's gonna sound the repairs again. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, thank you again for the position of the Fatherland faction. We agree that the text of the law states that it should be entrusted to the government before the law becomes effective by September 1st to ensure the financing of the relevant public authorities, where the benefits for the payment of the court’s fees have been collected. It's about the prosecution, it's about the holding fund, and it's about the fiscal authorities. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to an amendment that is compromising. Adopt this law as a whole so that it will take effect on September 1st, removing from the text of the law the rule that applies to the actions of our citizens in family disputes, and leaving them the plank that was defined in the previous legislation. With regard to commercial disputes involving other legal provisions, it remains in force. That is, this law will protect, there will be no increased judicial assembly for Ukrainian citizens who apply for appropriate cases and lawsuits. For businesses, for large lawsuits, we leave the text of a law that is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u121	As amended by the minister. Oleg Beresuk, one minute. That makes sense. The amendment is taken into account, what the minister said, "The Fatherland" is a plus, and the Radical Party is a plus. Now self-help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, all the fine adjustments, only on your knees and your voice. Such an important law should be adopted in a very normal, regulatory way. The Self-Help faction votes in favour of this law on the basis of a reduced processing procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u123	Victoria Sumar. I'm just stressing that the second reading will take place after May 25. Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, well, we have this law, really, falling out of the order of the day, because we didn't come up with any questions. And the price of the question -- yesterday, the Prime Minister talked about it on the Coalition Council -- is $1 billion that the country just doesn't get because we won't accept this law in general by the end of May. It's high enough, don't you think? It's a price question. A huge request to our self-help partners to make direct amendments so that we can approve this bill today, which provides a perfectly normal standard for facilitating, in fact, the conditions for business, including the cessation of over-adventure of law enforcement and taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u125	Come on. Look, let's try it. Let's try the question. They tried to get what they needed, so there is a proposal made by the minister and four factions of the coalition agree with it. Other national deputies who do not join the factions may also agree. I will now put this proposal on the ground and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the minister as a signal vote. If we raise the number, I'll put it to a vote right away. Do you have a deal? Get ready, colleagues, for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't you hear everything? Did you hear everything? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's base it on a whole signal. Signal! Let's give the signal on the basis and in general, as amended by the minister of justice. Let's base it on the whole signal, colleagues. Signal! Signal. Please, colleagues, on the basis and generally signal. [[11:56:04]] For 208 There's potential! Andrey Volodymyrovich looked at it and said, "There's potential!" Come on, focus again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I'm 30 seconds away from our fellow MPs. If this is not accepted by 29 numbers, the People's Front will be forced to initiate the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because it's a question that needs to be solved more quickly. We're gonna do it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's take a look. And that's why I think all the members of the coalition will support the next session if we don't take it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u127	Andrew Volodymyrovich, one minute! Dear friends of the national MPs, dear colleagues, this is how I felt this initiative, which I welcome with Andrei Volodymyrovich. I heard the MPs 50 from somewhere in the applause. We voted with you five times yesterday to continue working between two and four hours. And the point is that we're going to gather with you for an emergency session, which I have a huge doubt about. Based on what is a 25 number beacon, I suggest. We've just discussed it, and I'm now proposing that one person, one with the minister, do some work on the textual part of what needs to be done. I'm going to post it under the transcript to make it absolutely literate. And we're going to go back and vote in general, taking into account all the suggestions. And now, after the discussion, we'll move on to another issue of the agenda. Is such an offer accepted? Please, the Self-Help faction, please select one person to make proposals. So we don't lose the vote in the next one. Yegor Sobolev, please. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u128	Colleagues, if we have to get together again, let's get together in a row. But the great request is that we do not engage in pharisaic activity. The government, law enforcement agencies, do nothing about what Ukraine’s international partners expect in the fight against corruption. Yesterday, following the insistence of the Peter Prashenko Bloc faction, a step has been taken back with regard to the election of an anti-corruption prosecutor. And the small question of the judicial congregation is the main reason why the IMF will not be satisfied. The International Monetary Fund will double the amount of the loan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u129	Dear friends, one minute, one minute. One minute. Let's, let's propose the following, let's now put it to the vote, work out the proposals, and vote it out as a whole with proposals. So we don't have to take him down right now, okay? Please take your seats, colleagues. Please take your seats. We vote on the basis, we work together. If we find understanding, I'll make an offer. Come on, colleagues, on the ground. Please, on the ground. We vote on the basis, then I will give Yegor Soboljevo another minute to finish his word. Please, Your Honor, please. 2862 based. We'll continue to consult. Please vote. We're voting on the ground. And now we're going to hold consultations. [[12:00:19]] For 238. Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. I'm sorry, actually, for 40 seconds I spoke to Yegor Sobolev. Yegor, I'm sorry. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u130	Colleagues, 20 seconds. First. Apology accepted. The other one. The Self-Help faction shares the idea of this bill. He will work and vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u131	Are we going to vote now and in general? Colleagues, I'm asking you to look out for one person, please. Work it out now and we'll be back. Let's move on, fellows. Let's move on. Second reading. We work all the time. Shall we vote on it? Come on. What's the break? No breaks. We work all the time, we make a deal. I feel like 230 votes they want, right? Okay. 1165 reports Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin. An important law, by the way, is very important. Let's listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Thank you for this Friday, as always, not as they have always remained in full stock almost and have votes to adopt this revolutionary law for Ukrainian citizens today. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption (No. 1165). In the last six months, the Supreme Council has adopted, you know, important laws to combat corruption. Today, it is considered appropriate to include representatives of the public and ordinary citizens of Ukraine. No one has any doubt that without the participation of Ukrainian citizens, without civil society, civil control over the activities of the authorities, corruption cannot be overcome. The reason for this is years ago because of the corruption of employees of various branches of government: the courts, prosecutors, investigators, co-workers of organs, law enforcement agencies, and civil servants, the introduction into the Criminal Procedure Legislation of the Public Prosecutor's Institute and the introduction of a criminal prosecution institution in the form of public charges in the field of service crimes with signs of corruption. That is, two articles of the Criminal Code, under which they can be held accountable to the service, only to the service, in fact, only to the ministerial servants who are in the public service. This is article 368, and article 370 of the Criminal Code. It is important that the public prosecutor may be a natural person or a legal person, that is, any citizen of Ukraine who is directly a victim of a criminal offence or who has been informed of the commission of service crimes with signs of corruption in relation to other persons envisaged in article 368, is to accept a proposal, a promise or an unfair benefit to the official, as well as article 370 of the provocation of bribery of the Criminal Code. In doing so, the public prosecutor enjoys the same rights. Excuse me. It uses the same rights as the investigator and the prosecutor, it's important, but it becomes a full-fledged participant in criminal investigation. The Public Prosecutor's draft law provides legal weapons against corruption, which is the following: to initiate a special order of criminal conduct; to use technical means to identify crime; to file a complaint about the use of criminal security measures. If the investigator who received the application or the report or the prosecutor looked at them and they were corrupt and thought they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u133	Please don't limit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u134	To submit, today they do not want to make the corruption suspect known, so the public prosecutor is entitled to go to the court, the investigating judge, and file such a statement. It is very important that since the filing of the application to the public prosecutor of criminal offences and the introduction of relevant information into the register, prosecutors have 10 days to report the suspicion. Deadline is coming, the public prosecutor has the right to do it on his own. If the grounds provided for in article 284 of the Criminal Procedure Code are established, the investigator and the prosecutor are obliged to close the proceedings if the information is not confirmed. Colleagues, I am grateful to the copyright team, which today consists of 25 national deputies of all factions and non-fractionals. I am grateful to the national deputies who made the amendments, Mr. Yatzenko, Mrs. Sotnik, Lensky, Amazanov, and Levchenko. We counted 41 proposals, agreed with the authors. And 103 offers were rejected. I'm not going to stop for a change. Just one change. You know, there are 359 articles today. 359 article that clearly regulates the illicit purchase, use, and sale of technology. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Security Service has an internal document that allows experts today to interpret what is a technical tool for obtaining information that is forbidden to circulation. For example, when someone is sitting in the room with Apple, Watch, or with Google Glass glasses, it's the same things that fall under this criminal, this article. Therefore, the authors of the article are also using Mrs. Sotnik, and I thank you, we are decriminalizing the acquisition and the sale, and the use remains under criminal responsibility. Dear colleagues! The committee fully supported and recommended that the Council adopt this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand that all the amendments have been agreed upon and that there is a consolidated position. Then I would certainly give factions leaders the opportunity to express themselves from factions in a minute, please. Sergey Kaplin's Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u136	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Today is a revolutionary day in the fight against corruption. In fact, any simple, active citizen can now become a true public prosecutor, I emphasize: a true national prosecutor! Now we, along with you, can form great anti-corruption solidarity, a great power to fight villains that can't be reached by an official prosecutor. In addition, I want to report that today at 6:30 in the morning Chebotar was suspected, and after that, this bastard, the former deputy minister of the interior, fled to Vienna. I urge today to consolidate civil society, Ukraine's strong structures, the whole world, bring him here and judge him. This will be a demonstration court that will demonstrate clearly throughout the world: Ukraine is fighting corruption with the help of civil society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u137	Thank you. It was the word of a co-author, as far as I can tell. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. Then Leonid Yemen is the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u138	Igor Mosiychuk Radical Party. In a time of total mistrust and corruption in the country's law-enforcement system, this is really, without exaggeration, a revolutionary bill that gives Ukrainian citizens arms to fight corruption. Because as can be explained, for example, that a recent judge of the Rzisztowski Court was appointed Ruslan, who had previously passed death sentences in the DNR in Hartziska. Who prepared papers for the president? Corruptionrs. So those national MPs who are not going to vote in favour of this bill will deliberately maintain the system of protection of the Soviet Public Prosecutor's Office and that system.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u139	Leonid Yemen, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u140	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I'll tell you this, under this law, every official will think a hundred times, even joke about bribes, not about hints, and then, God forbid, demanding this bribe. An extremely key law in the fight against corruption and specifically in the fight against the provocation of bribes. I'll tell you what, yesterday was a very specific thought, and today that national MP who doesn't vote for the fight against corruption is the one for Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u141	Please, National Deputy Captain, Self-Help. Please, National Deputy Sotnik. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, Self-Help. Turn on the microphone where Miroshnichenko is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me. The Self-Help faction really supports this bill, we've been working on it for a long time. I want to tell you that I actually understand the fears of some colleagues that there will be total references. But when there is no fight against corruption in law enforcement today. I'm here to support the German: ten times a government official will now think about what to say to him or what to do with his brothers or what to do with him, when he knows that every citizen with a recorder in his pocket can write it down and use it as evidence of corruption. I ask you all to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u143	Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, Fatherland. And we will proceed to the vote, colleagues. I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall, an extremely important law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear friends! At numerous meetings, the summits have already spoken against Ukraine one word: "Europe is tired of waiting for Ukraine to take action!".. In the first place, what stands? There are no reforms in what area? In the area of law enforcement, the judicial system, and in large letters, the word "invincible corruption" is written. Friends, we have the opportunity to enter history, the first really reforming law. After the adoption of this law to every diplomat, every president who can be shown that Ukraine has begun serious, responsible reforms. When Poland introduced this law, three cases were when officials were brought to criminal liability as whispered, where is Poland, where are we? Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, from the Radical Party faction. It was the co-authors who spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u146	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I, like other colleagues of our faction, Igor Mosiychuk are co-authors of the other 25 national deputies under this law. I'm asking Ukrainian citizens to understand what historical, epochal law is being considered. This bill empowers every Ukrainian citizen from whom an official, a judge, a prosecutor, a militiaman requires bribes, is given the right to record the crime and then use it in court. Today you cannot prove this crime even if you are being bribed. And when you go to the police, to the D.A.'s office, they're putting their feet on you because they don't want to do anything. This law allows anyone who is required to be bribed to record, film, and then to be evidence in court, and to be able to plant a corrupter. It's a historical law that actually allows society to start a real fight against corruption. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u147	Please, Yuri Lucenko of the Peter Dust Block. We're getting ready to vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, as well as those who are now near the session hall, would like to come to her and support the bill. This bill concludes yesterday's revolution in law enforcement. Yesterday we did a very serious reform of the prosecutor's office, the police, the State Bureau of Investigation, the municipal guard. We now give citizens the right to help all law enforcement agencies, as they say, to fight corruption peacefully, which eats up Ukraine’s prospects. I ask you to support this bill as the last block in the system reform of Ukrainian law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Now we're going to make an 1165 vote. I understand that there is a complete understanding between factions, national MPs. Draft law (registration No. 1165), draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption crimes, which is prepared by a second-reading committee and made with an agreed proposal to adopt it in a second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote a signal, a signal in the second reading and a whole draft of Law 1165. Please support him. 1165, signal, second reading and, as a whole, committee decision. Please vote. It's an emergency. [[12:17:04]] For 211 Dear colleagues, please. Please, colleagues! Please, there are other national MPs coming in. I see, I see. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, for your consideration, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in combating corruption has been introduced for second reading by the relevant committee of profile. There is a proposal to vote on it in the second reading and in general the committee’s decision. Ready? Signal. Ready to go? Please, in the second reading and in general. Signal vote, 1165, please. 1165, please. [[12:18:58]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, let's try the vote again. Ready, colleagues? Let's do it again. An important law, let us once again give a signal vote on the adoption of this law in second reading and in general. Come on, let's go, colleagues. Ready? Second reading as a whole. Signal, signal. Signal in second reading and in general. Please, in the second reading and in general, please. [[12:20:13]] For 223 Let's do it again. Let's do it again, colleagues. Let's do it again. It's going to signal again. Vote! Signal. Vote. We didn't make it. [[12:20:39]] For 185 My colleagues, listen to me. Again. One minute! Calm down. Once again, the second reading and the whole of the vote is a signal vote. Signal. Please vote on the second reading. In the second reading. Wait a minute, wait a minute! Stop, stop! In the second reading and in general. It's an emergency. Signal. In the second reading and in general, please. Please, in the second reading and in general. [[12:21:32]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again. Once again, take your seats! Take your seats! Once again, dear fellows. Are we together? Concentrate, prepare. Come on, are you ready? Attention! Quiet in the hall, attention! Who will now speak out loud in the hall won't get paid for this month. One, two, no pay. Dear friends! Please, colleagues, give me another beep, 1165, second reading, and as a whole, as decided by the committee. Vote. We vote carefully, carefully. Very careful. [[12:23:20]] For 226 In the second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general, no one goes out. In the second reading and in general, we vote. In the second reading and in general, 1165. Vote. Vote! [[12:23:49]] For 222 Yuri Lucenko. No one's breaking up. We'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u150	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! We're not ready to vote for him in general. We believe that it is only possible to record the upper table of the judicial congregation on business matters. For individuals, we are not ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u151	Colleagues, one minute. One minute, one minute, one minute. Take your seats, take your seats. There's an offer, take your seats, take your seats. There's an offer, there's an offer. Take your seats. Let's do it again, colleagues. 1165 is a law, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption. Concentrate, please. Let's focus. I'm going to put it to the vote for the return. To return, to return. Take your seats. Did everyone hear that? To return. All right, let's vote back to 1165 on the fight against corruption, 1165. We go back, colleagues, we vote, we vote. We're going back. Please vote for the return. [[12:25:52]] For 229 Let's take a look at the factions. Okay. Now, in the second reading and in general, we vote. In second reading and in total, 1165. 1165 votes. [[12:26:23]] For 231 Don't break up, just a minute. Close the door, please. Come back, all of you, colleagues. Next. No, no, no. Colleagues, two other laws, one pension and one related to 2862, a judicial assembly. Everyone, please remain national deputies. Everyone, please stay at your place of work. Colleagues, 28,62, Yegor, are there any understanding? 2862? Please, take your seats. There is still a pension law. Please, 2862.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u152	2862, ready?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u153	What about repairs? 2862, where are the repairs? Paul, please, Petrenko. Invite the deputies to the hall and the minister's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u154	I'll make it up to you. Yes, by all physical persons. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, there's an open offer that we can take down any questions about individuals. After consulting with the national deputies, there is a proposal that we set up for all individuals and entrepreneurs, and just individuals, the upper limit of the judicial congregation, directly under the transcript. "One percent of the price of a lawsuit, but no less, there, 0.4 percent of the minimum wage and no more than 5 percent of the minimum wage." This will apply to all individuals and entrepreneurs, as well as to ordinary individuals. And the proposals that were made by the Fatherland faction in the End of Position to entrust the government by September 1st of this year to provide funding for the state authorities that are depriving aid to the court. Please, in such a format, vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u155	Do you understand, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u156	By physical persons, property disputes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u157	Do you understand? Come on, colleagues, gather around, please, take your seats. Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow officers, with such an amendment, the faction considers the law possible to vote in favour. We support this amendment by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u159	Thank you. I'm asking the faction to take their seats, to prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. One minute, counseling. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Please, Your Honor, we still have a self-help consultation. Please take our seats, invite the deputies to the hall. My colleagues, I understand this decision, because on May 25th, it's an IMF beacon, and that's where it's needed. And here you have to be responsible, that's understandable. Please, another one of these. Minister under the transcript, Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u160	Another offer of self-help. We agreed on a physical basis if the hall would support it. The Self-Help faction suggests that, according to property claims in the household courts, the same should be done at the upper limit. The IMF recommended that we increase our arrival by half. So there's the next offer under the stenogram. Claims of property character in household courts are one and a half percent of the price of a lawsuit, but not less than one size of minimum wage and not more than 150 sizes of minimum wage. It's a compromise, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u161	Colleagues, with these rights that have just been announced, I put a signal vote in the second reading and in general. But in general, a bill with these amendments, with these proposals. It's a signal, let's go, 2862 with the papers that the minister of justice just sounded under the transcript. Please vote. This is an emergency, please. Signal. [[12:31:44]] For 214 Invite the deputies to the hall. 214, there are voices, I think we're going to vote now. No one is going anywhere, please, colleagues, please, once again alert 2862 with changes, as a whole, which have been sounded by the minister of justice. Signal, colleagues, 2862, 2862, minute. Colleagues, come on, this is an extremely responsible position! 2863 with the decrees issued by the minister, in general, in the second reading, we vote. It's y to the beeper, colleagues, we're voting! Please, 2862, a general vote with the amendments that have just been sounded, please, colleagues, please, please vote, colleagues. [[12:33:18]] For 227 Yes. And now we are voting on the basis and in general, in the second reading and in general with the amendments that the minister has made. Vote, colleagues, vote 2862, vote, please support, please vote, please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:33:39]] For 215 Well, that's kind of it. Let's go back to 2862 for the return. Colleagues, this is the IMF issue, all of the faction proposals are agreed upon. We're back, 2862, for our return. 2862. Come on, back to 2862. We're focused, colleagues. Please, 2862 for your return. Vote. It's a question of state, colleagues, it's a question of state. [[12:34:53]] For 217 Let's do it again, let's say, until 2862. 2862 for the return. Please, colleagues, let's concentrate. 2862 for the return. Vote. [[12:35:30.]] For 217 No votes, no respectable colleagues. Let's do it again, Minister of Justice. Please. Let's do all the general proposals again. Invite the deputies into the hall and no one goes anywhere, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I will repeat once again the basics of this law. First and foremost, we don't touch our Ukrainian citizens, we agreed that Ukrainian citizens, regardless of the lawsuits they're making, are at the top of the line. Second, we don't touch small businesses either. We've set a ceiling for farm business. Those companies that file billions of lawsuits to the courts that actually overload these cases, when they can't reach a small Ukrainian, have to pay more. The third is the main one. This law provides for the removal of the benefits for law enforcement agencies after the filing of the lawsuits. I would like to remind them once again that, to date, the fiscal authorities around all businesses are filing a bunch of claims for damages. 60 percent of cases before administrative courts are prosecuted for tax charges against Ukrainian entrepreneurs. And no tax officer took responsibility, that is, they were actually demanding money from entrepreneurs. They're court-martialed, they're searching, they're demanding money. This law makes it possible if a taxpayer brought a case before a court, paid a court order, lost it, and then asked why he unjustifiably applied for an action against an entrepreneur. That's a national question. This is a question that applies to every Ukrainian. It's not a question of the Ministry of Justice, or of the people's deputies, it's a question of state. Let's stop this vacchanal with the lawsuits. Ukraine has more to do than the United States is nonsense. In doing so, matters produced by the State against Ukrainian citizens. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u163	My colleagues, I think there's one more thing I need to understand. This question is very important in our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. The support of the International Monetary Fund for Ukraine is extremely important. There were rules of discussion that I asked my colleagues to discuss. We've been working on it, and there's a common position on voting. Then the minister made this offer, and now, I want to ask you, once again, the national MPs to come into the hall, take your seats, and let's go back to this very important law. Because not voting on this law is politics, and the worse it is, the better. For me, I'm saying right now, from the position of only one, of our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which is extremely important for maintaining financial and economic stability in Ukraine. And so we have many challenges today. So please, colleagues, we're going to take our seats again and I'm going to put the question of return to the vote. Are you ready to vote return? 2862, 2862 on return to voting in second reading as a whole. We'll be right back, I'll put it to the vote in general with a bill that the Justice Minister has issued that was agreed upon by all. Please, please, please. Ready to vote? Get your colleague back there. Ready to vote? Ready. Colleagues, don't be distracted from voting. Are you ready to vote? Have you taken your seats? Please, come here. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote back, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote back, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote back, we Vote, colleagues, return to vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. We're voting back, colleagues. [[12:40:22]] For 219 That's better. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Let's get together again, colleagues, get together, get together, get together, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u164	Dear friends, dear colleagues, there is a unique practice of the Ukrainian Parliament throughout the years of Independence, there have been three or four of them, one of them. We're sorry, we're stuck on the wall, we have until June 1st to adopt this law. Vladimir Borisovich has repeatedly stressed how important it is for us today to work with the International Monetary Fund, the only source of assistance to Ukraine. Friends, there's an offer like this to look at this unique practice. Not everyone understands, not everyone has heard these changes from the voice, not everyone believes that they will lie in the body of the law as it is said. Let's vote on the law, vote on it, and consider that the next session in the Hall is necessarily a legal department, the appropriate committee is polished, and then the hall says we have to vote on these things. That was the case three times in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, we are voting in a second reading as a whole. And on Tuesday, the next, the first, when there's a plenary session, we're polishing something that looks like something's been said to be unclinched. Let's vote. Colleagues, back up!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u165	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. That's a good offer. My colleagues, have you been concentrating? Let's do it this way. We'll be right back, we'll be voting in the second reading and in general with the amendments of the minister who was bugged, and we'll be working on it again. If there are questions, we will work together to make it more perfect. But it will already be accepted by the Ukrainian Parliament and we will make changes once it is signed. Do you copy, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u166	Once again, please take your seats. We'll go back, and we'll fix it. Let's go back, guys. 2862 for the return. Ready? Come on, let's go back. We go back, we vote, colleagues. Let's back up, please vote. On the way back, let's go back. [[12:42:33]] For 226 We're back. We're back, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Vote. With the rights of the Minister of Justice as a whole. Here's another one. Aunt Ostrikova, please. Come on, fellows, gather around.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make another mistake. Self-help faction. Article 7 of part one of the third paragraph, which states that the amount paid by the court is returned to the court for the care of the person who was paid for the court’s approval, in the event of a refusal to open the case in the first instance, the appeal and the cassation of the case, except in cases of refusal to open the case for a cassation in connection with the fact that the complaint is unfounded and the arguments raised in the case do not give rise to the need for verification of the material of the case. To date, 90 percent of the cassation complaints have been denied the opening of cassational proceedings in connection with what they are. One - person approval in connection with her indiscretion. Therefore, in order to avoid abuse, we propose that part of the first paragraph of article 7 of the first paragraph of article 7 should be deleted "except in cases of refusal to open cassational proceedings in connection with the fact that a cassation complaint is groundless and does not raise the necessary arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u168	We'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u169	There is support from the Minister of Justice. This may be a concerted offer in the second reading and in general with the offer of the minister of justice, who was quoted under the transcript, and the national deputy of Tetjana Ostrikova. Ready, colleagues? We only had 226 votes. Ready? Prepare more carefully. We are voting with both of us on the issues that have been announced. Vote. Vote in favour, please. We vote, colleagues, in second reading, and in general, with the rights of the minister of justice, who were sounded under the transcript, as well as the national deputy of Ostrikov, Self-help. Colleagues, I vote. I'm voting, colleagues. 2862. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:45:03]] For 223 223. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't work? National MP Novak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the prosecutor's office today is very often seeking the protection of the interests of the state can also seek the protection of Ukrainian citizens who cannot defend themselves. So are the organs of the earth's structure, the green building. They don't have the money. And now whoever doesn't turn around, nobody's going to go to trial, is going to be full of powerless organs. So even if they have little money for lawsuits, they're not going to use it, they're going to save it. So in a beggar's budget -- one that we have -- we're just paralyzing any courts that will even protect citizens and defend just decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u171	Alexeyev, People's Front. And then Sergei Sobolev. Wait a minute. In a minute, colleagues. Basically. Alexeyev, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I am still addressing the entire hall. The Deputy faction of Fatherland made a proposal supported by the Ministry of Justice that by September 1, 2015, when the law came into force, the government would provide funding for these organs. In addition, we all know that law enforcement agencies abuse their right to bring them to court. Therefore, the International Monetary Fund’s requirement to remove all state aid agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, please. Wait a minute. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, let's stop the speculation. I call numbers so no one says he cares about citizens and that's why he doesn't vote. Indeed, in order to go to court, you need to file a lawsuit, pay a minimum court fee of 500 dollars. But who's going to go to court for a lawsuit if I charge less than 500 dollars? Let's not laugh at each other. Second, we're scared of the maximum limit here. In order for you to have a maximum limit of nearly 7,000, you have to apply for a subpoena of almost 1 million dollars. A person who demands a million dollars so that he does not abuse his right must pay at least 7,000. And that's absolutely fair. So I think the Ministry of Justice went to meet, fixed all these standards. As far as the public authorities are concerned, we have incorporated the law directly. Local self-government is the right to include them immediately in the budget. For Zelengospó and other institutions, to include it in the budget of these institutions, and let them apply. And let's stop talking about what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party. One minute, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u176	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We thank the Minister of Justice for taking into account the remarks made by the Radical Party and other factions. Nor do we limit this law the rights of individuals who apply to court. That's why we, the faction, vote for this law. I want to talk to my colleagues from the other factions. Please hear me. When you make laws, we always support you. So I'm addressing colleagues from other factions who don't now vote, so please support this law that the country needs. Earth round, tomorrow you ask us, we'll support you. Vote, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, once again, we will listen to all the conversations, and let's try again to get back to question 2862. Before the vote. Based on the coalition factions. I see all the factions are coming up, and they're making these proposals to come back again. So let's try again. But I stress that the issue is important for our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Please, colleagues, concentrate, 2862 on returning to the vote in general. Are you concentrating? Ready to vote? Ready, colleagues? Let's vote for the return of 2862 to the consideration as a whole. Please. Please return 2862. Please support this proposal, this initiative, the honourable colleagues of the national MPs. [[12:50:31]] For 225 One more time, please. Please do it again. Please make the same offer again. Please make the same offer again. Please, once again for the return, for the return, for the return. Come back again. Let's do it again, please, colleagues. Let's do it again. [[12:51:01]] For 228 There are voices. Now, as a whole, in the second reading, with the amendment of the minister of justice and Tetjana Ostrikov, we are voting. And Tetjana Ostrikova, 2862. "Paternity," what the minister said, he generalized all the suggestions and Tetjana Ostrickov. We vote in the second reading. We vote, we vote, we vote. We vote, we vote on this proposal as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Great. [[12:51:32]] For 229 Colleagues, if there's a problem, we'll fix it with you. But we did a beacon of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. We're still working. If you have any questions, we'll work on them, make suggestions only. Next up, colleagues, we're working. Next, Your Honor, we vote. Question (registration number 2852, 2852-1) of the draft Act amending the Final Provisions Act to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance. Dennis's report is from Ludmila Leontievna. There is a suggestion to consider it, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Give me a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Everybody stay where you are. Let's put it to a brief vote. Now we're going to listen to the report by Sophia Dennis and figure out what to do with it. We vote, we vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please, I'm asking for a reduced procedure, for, let's support it. We will listen to the report and decide what to do next. Please, colleagues. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[12:53:02]] For-138 Once again, I'm putting this motion to a vote. As far as the procedure is concerned, please. Please vote. We're voting for a cut. Let us now listen to the summary report and decide what to do about it. Please support me. [[12:53:20]] For-151 Thank you. Decision taken. Sophia Leontievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u179	Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, as you recall, on March 2, you and I adopted the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance (number 213). This bill gave us the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make changes and to change the system of social, special pensions. It had to be delivered by May 1st, we had to take it by June 1st. Unfortunately, our calendar schedule did not give us the opportunity to consider this issue. And that's why we're asking you a lot of questions because there are a lot of questions about the drafting of this bill on the accumulation of pension insurance. There's a comment from the International Monetary Fund. That's why we're proposing to allow the government to rework, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole of the Supreme Council, and to postpone the deadline until 1 July 2015. I'm asking you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u181	So this is about 2852-1 supporting the extension of the law by July 1st, as I understand it. Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u182	Respectable colleagues, respected participants, the Committee on Social Policy and Pensions has considered two bills, 2852 and 2852-1. And we, on behalf of the committee and on behalf of the drafters of the 2852 bill, and all members of the bill have become sponsors of the bill, ask you to postpone the transition to new rules on the accrual of pensions for public listeners and specialties for six months, from 1 June to 1 December. And I want to explain the reasons. Parliament has instructed the Government to prepare a bill, to submit the bill to the Chamber by 1 May so that we can consider it, adopt it, and that the new rules start working from 1 June. And what we saw with you. The Government's draft bill, which had been drafted, had introduced it into the Hall, but the Committee had not supported it and it was not professional at all. Today we have listened to the Minister and we understand that there is no bill. And since 1 June, there has been no new law that would justly charge pensions for civil servants and specialties. That is why we have looked at and really assessed the situation. And we suggest that, in order to come out of this difficult situation today, we move the introduction of uniform pensions for staff and special-purpose pensions to 1 December. There is another bill, 2852 by Mr. Suhjević, who proposes to postpone the introduction of the law for one month. In principle, that is not bad as it is said, but we must be objective with you, in a month's time, to reform the pension fund and provide pensions by the forces that are now in the Government and in the Ministry of Social Policy will be impossible to do. And paralyzing pension work for all employees will probably do that. Therefore, objectively: it is necessary to postpone for six months, during which time to unite the efforts of all factions of Parliament, to create the right and just.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u183	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u184	A fair and unified system to go out into the hall. The Committee therefore requests the support of Bill 2852 and its adoption as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u185	Thank you, fellows of honor! Actually, this is an important question, and I would like to invite you to the words of Yuri Sukhevich, one of the authors of the legislative initiatives, please, Mr. Jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u186	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Listen, according to the Coalition Agreement, according to the government program, a bill was to be introduced to amend compulsory pension insurance by June 1. So what? The government was given, it was March 2nd, the government was given, as you can see, three months. The bill was not ready, the one submitted by the Ministry of Social Policy is imperfect, there are two systems that are mixed: the general obligation is pension insurance and the accumulation system. At the same time, there was once again an attempt because the committee disagreed and did not agree correctly, even though Rosenko said the committee was guilty. But really, there was a discussion, and the ministry couldn't explain how the accumulation system would work, and it turned out to be the right thing to do. But you know, there's a bill that I've put in place, I've registered, and we're proposing not to postpone for six months, because it's six months, and then another six months, and we're never going to get to that reform. And the government, by the way, has no time to consider, no possibility. Now, women to consider, the President's veto on the law on women who have reached the age of 55 and are entitled to retirement, who are 30 years of age, is not available. The Court’s Congregation for Whom Is It for? Only there is no ATO that has not yet been introduced into the hall. Similarly here, it's going to be this delay, you know, until the second coming of the Christ.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u187	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u188	By July 1, we propose to adopt a bill on general compulsory pension insurance. And with the exception of privileged pensions, and the only accounting principles. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u189	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, it seems technical. What's the point? Ukrainian pensioners divided into classes, there are ordinary pensioners, where there are some rules for the assignment of a pension, there are exceptional pensioners, where other rules of appointment, there is a gross violation of the Constitution, under which all citizens are equal before the law. In this connection, the parliament commissioned the government by June 1st to introduce and adopt the law applicable, the pension law being the only one for all citizens and cannot be otherwise. What does the government now offer us? We are encouraged by the government not to implement this decision and to move on to the end of the year. I think that this immoral pension system of Ukraine has to be cancelled, it has no bearing on the cumulative pension system. This is a separate decision that needs to be settled. In this connection, I propose to reject the government’s draft law and to support the project of our colleague, national deputy Shuhevich. And finally, put a dot in pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ptašnik, Self-Help, then Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to the fact that the government had two months to prepare an appropriate bill to abolish special pensions. Just in the "hour of questions to the government," Mr. Rosenko spoke and said that he fully supported the cancellation of special pensions and special pensions is a disgrace and they should be abolished. Then I wonder why we're putting those pensions away again by the end of the year, unlike special pensions, and we can't do this right now? So our faction fully supports Mr. Yuri Shuhevich's proposal and his bill, which is proposed to move for one month and give the government one more chance to draft a proper bill, to adopt it to the end, and to get rid of all issues with special pensions. The question of the judicial congregation can be quickly decided in the hall, and the issue of the cancellation of special pensions cannot be resolved. Let's support Yuri Suhevich and vote for an alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u193	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u194	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The abolition of special pensions, i.e. the restoration of social justice in pension insurance, was one of the conditions of the Radical Party faction agreed by the government when the State Budget Act 2015 was under consideration and the amendment of pension legislation. We believe that in 23 years of independence, the pension system is built when prosecutors, judges, government officials receive a pension under another law than all other millions of Ukrainian citizens are an entirely unjust system, and this is our requirement to abolish a special pension order. That's why we insist that the Supreme Council vote in order for special pensions to be abolished as of June 1st, unless another law is passed. Sadly, the government did not give this new law. So we ask for the support of the Sukhevic bill, by July 1st, but provided that the Law on the Cancellation of Special Pensions is in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u195	Finish up, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u196	There must be a single order for all citizens of Ukraine to apply for pensions. The main thing in pension is social justice, so that a person gets a pension depending on the salary and the pension benefits that he paid, not the office in which he was sitting. Because a worker, a colporteur, a carpenter, a teacher, a doctor, he has the same right to receive a high pension as a government official. So it's not the special pensions that have to be set up, it's the job of raising wages for people to get high pensions so they don't beg when they retire, it's our job, the Ukrainian Parliament, that's the goal of pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u197	Thank you, colleagues. Please have another proposal from Natalie Royal as the author of the law on a consolidated voting position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u198	We have to. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, yes. If we do not now vote on any of these bills, our pensioners will receive, from 1 June, abracadabra instead of pension, because the Pension Fund today has no model on which to charge pensions to civil servants and specialties. So we suggest, yes, let's all go together, as we understand it, 2852-1 is ready to postpone this procedure for one month. But we must entrust the Government with a professional bill this month. Because if they don't do anything again this month, we'll be back in a month to the same abracadabra that we have with you in this room right now. If they do not do so in a month, let them resign now. Today, they have made all pensioners, all civil servants, all people who have spent their entire lives in the State and who have paid increased contributions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u199	Thank you. Question of what, colleagues? Question of what. No, it was very important to suggest that they don't insist on putting on 28,852 right now. There's a proposal that is now consolidated to vote 2852-1. That's for July. That's why I'm going to put this proposal on the table now and put it to a vote, once again. So 2852-1, stating that this law, making changes to the End of Position, which states that this law takes effect, changes the figures from June 1st to July 1st, that's just one rule. Let's put 2852-1, signal vote, based on and in general, colleagues. It's all right. I said this: July 1st, July 1st, July 1st. We're voting on the whole of this change. Let's vote, let's vote, let's all vote, let's vote, let's vote, let's vote, let's vote, let's all vote, let's vote, let's vote, let's vote, I think we may have enough votes now. It's an emergency, it's an emergency. [[13:07:54]] For-200 Fellows, let's focus again. I see, I see, I see, I see. Let's get together, fellows. I think we can re-vote the result with you. So 2852-1. The suggestion is to change the term from 1 June to 1 July. Consolidated position. Please, colleagues, re-voting as a basis and as a whole, just this transfer. Please, please, let's vote. Vote! [[13:08:43]] For 202 My voice. I didn't work, I voted in favour. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, let's try the alarm again. And if it doesn't work, then we'll move it. But just to emphasize, June 1st. What is the question? The question is June 1st. Listen, there's a question that's extremely responsible. We're not going to be able to carry this all the time, so the language is only going to be delayed from July 1st. So it's just about one month. Let's focus again so that we can be responsible. They were responsible! Please, 2852-1. Only part of the end-of-life transfer. I see there's an MP out of the People's Front. Come back! Please, come on, let's vote. On the basis and in general. But it's a signal. Vote. Vote! We're voting on the signal. [[13:10:28]] For 206 Obviously, there will be no miracle. So we've discussed it, we won't make the decision, and we'll carry it to the next plenary week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. All of it! Thank you. For the next plenary week, we'll put it on the first day. And, fellows, we're starting a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. [[B in m in s a l in]] A. questions. Ask, ask. Really. It's no, no, no, we've passed on the questions after we've considered the issues of order. Please, Oksana Ivanovna, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u200	Thank you. MP's questions. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for funding for the renovation of the roof in the military's premises is the field post office of B-2010, the city of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Provincial District Administration for the provision of funds to repair the critical condition of the house No. 4 on the street of Voronkin in the village of Visna Pich of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Vitek's Artema to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of the deadlines for the compilation of lists, including them in the relevant structural units for the social protection of the population for the payment of one-time cash assistance. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of a platoon to the Cheremushka Microregion in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of financing of the flood protection of the Tis River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region. Ruslan Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Chief of Investigations of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Odessa District of Peter Kushner. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the financing of the "National Targeted Economic Programme for Energy Efficiency and Development of Energy Production from Renewable Energy Sources and Alternative Fuels 2010-2015", approved by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 1 March 2010 No.243. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the subordination of the state-owned enterprise "Kernovitske" of the Bukovin Institute of Agricultural Production of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine for its further reform and destruction of land and property. Sergey Kunicina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of a participant in hostilities in Afghanistan, Vladimir Ohrimenko. Paul Kiskarar to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the apartment building, located at: Kyivska oblast, Brovari city, Cherniakhivska street, 21-B (Constructor of TOV "Northwesttransbud"), including for the needs of participants in hostilities with the Russian Federation in eastern Ukraine. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for Reforming Inter-Budget Relations, dated December 28, 2014 No.79 - VIII. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the information on the theft by the Delta Bank management of the funds allocated by the National Bank of Ukraine for the refinancing of the Public Shareholder Society Delta Bank. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the closure of the railway station of Gruevski. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the question of the delivery of suspicious reports (in the context of criminal investigation No.42013080390000028, No. 12013080230001652, No. 12013080230002066, opened on the basis of parliamentary referrals) to former officials of the Zaporezki District State Administration, whose signature, during the Januković regime, has systematically committed official crimes related to land mismanagement. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of a self-driving sewage collector in the city of Lebedin Sumska district. Dmitri Andriyewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of natural persons who provide social services to elderly citizens, disabled persons, disabled children, disabled persons who are incapable of self-service and need constant foreign assistance. Andrija Vadaturski to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the right of employees of the state-owned enterprise "Restructuring" - residents of the villages of Lepetich, Red Yar and Wesele Brezneguvat region of Mikolaiiv region to obtain land rations. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts of the investigation of journalists. Andrija Shinkovič to the Head of the Hmelnick district administration, the head of the Hmelnick district council on the need to anticipate funds in the district budget for the dismantling of the collapse and the construction of a new portion of the clinic in the city of Izaslavi Hmelnick. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the need to transfer the administration of agricultural land to the management of the territorial communities. Oleg Barna to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the lack of reform and efficiency in the work of the State Enterprise Ukrispirt. Groups of National Deputies (Krivoshei, Polakova, Romanyuka) to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of land use. Groups of National Deputies (Romanyuk, Polakova, Krivoshei) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the final outcome of the service investigation concerning the activities of the former head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Igor Billous. People’s Deputies ( Polyakova, Romanyuka, Krivoshei) to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for confiscated containers with tobacco products. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Prosecutor of the Lviv Region, head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, head of the Ukrainian Road Service in the Lviv region, on the facts of the looting in the construction of the Jovva-Chervonograd-Kovel road. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about sabotaging the treatment of terminally ill children and wounded ATO fighters abroad by the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Igor Shurma to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for abuses and offences while receiving permission to move to the ATO zone. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council on the urgent need for measures to ensure the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants of Lubotin, completion of the construction of a deep water well on the Kurort Street and the beginning of the construction of an additional well, as residents of Lubotin have suffered for years from problems of local water supply and catastrophic lack of drinking water. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council on the solution of issues in favour of the local village community, the town type Pisokin of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district, on the need for allotment of funds in full respect of the construction of a teaching facility (school) in the Microbial area of the town town of Pisokin. Zagoriya's soil to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the list of forms of charitable assistance for military personnel, their families, internally displaced persons and peaceful residents living in the ATO. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent and systematic measures to set up gas accounting counters for the current year. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the placement of the New Military Region 3 microregion Eling in the city of Berdichov in the new military area. Ruslan Solvarar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Public Administration on the need to improve the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement in the area of public procurement of medicines and waste materials for the treatment of cancer and haematological patients, as well as those who require bone marrow transplantation. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for testing the quality of drinking water in Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district and surrounding villages. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Road Service in Kiev for the capital repair of the Squire district’s roads. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuk, Yemen, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations, the Public Kyivenergo Shareholders' Association for the establishment of water and water tariffs. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Housing Improvement Program for the Counter-Terrorism Operation. Anatoly of Denisenka to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the status and prospects for digital television in Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the creation and operation of social stores for low-income groups. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the environmental impact on the environment caused by persistent fires, the debris in the garbage dump site, the State Environmental Expertise on the Further Functioning and Exploitation of the Solid Waste Field in the City of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to prevent an emergency that occurred in the Poltava Regional Council of Poltava Water Channel, in the municipality of Poltava, because of the debt for electricity consumption in the provision of water and water supply services and the absence of subsidies from the State budget to offset the differences in tariffs that would lead to the cessation of this enterprise and its liquidation. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of arrears on salary to teachers and education institutions in the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin district government administration for the construction of social housing for young medical professionals in the region of Montenegro. Irina Sisoyenko to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to determine the amount of hemodialysis needed for Ukrainian citizens. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the abuse of office as head of the Primorska Rural Council of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov district of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Vojciecki, Lechchenka, and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of the Public Stock Exchange Society of Ukrnafta to state control. Vitalia Stasuka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the organization of a regularity check (inaction) for police personnel during an incident that took place on 19 May 2015 near the Osokorka Metro Station in the Darnicki district of Kiev. John Rybak to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations regarding the need to take urgent measures to restore the functioning of a separate state fire rescue post in the village of the city type Nepolkovci of the Kitzman district of Czernieweck. John Rybak to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need to allocate additional financial resources. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for filing a suit in the interests of the State to the Public Stockholders Association of Ukrnafta for debt to Ukraine's State Budget of 1 billion 779 million 624 thousand 775 dollars. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the non-conclusion with the builders of rations contracts in the development of the infrastructure of the city of Browara, resulting in no cost to the city budget. Igor Alekseyev to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the public report of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of criminal conduct in relation to the allegations of abuse and the budgeting of the former Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Raisa Bogatirov. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the first-line allocation of land for ATO participants in the territory of the City Council of Poltavian Region. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the verification of shipments on a paid basis stolen from occupied coal land in Ukraine in four directions - Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovgrad and Odessa, for the use of appropriate response measures. Alexia Lensky to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent use of response measures to stop the special operation of the deputy of the Kirovograd City Council of Artem Stryzakov and the ex-governor Sergio Larin, who use the services of the Moscow PR Group Politsulting for the benefit of the Kirovgradska Foundation, which is part of the criminal clan of the Janukovic family, to conduct mass bribery of voters and to distribute polygraphic production, trying to fuel separatist anti-Ukraine sentiments. Eugene Dejeja to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the heads of the Ivano-Frankov District Public Administration for Dissatisfaction of the Villages of the Old Curvetouls, the New Curves, Krasilovka, Odai, Markovci and other residents of the villages of the Tisminic region of the Ivano-Frankov region regarding actions to destroy the launch mines of the dual missile complex and not to respond to the situation and to the appropriate violations of Ukrainian legislation by officials of local self-government and officials who are responsible for ensuring environmental and health-epidemiological security. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs tender procedure during the conclusion of the contract with TOV Lemodo for the provision of license plates. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Government to control the use of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's budget. Igor Popov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the continuing compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power in the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the assignment of the special title of Lieutenant Colonel of the Internal Service Yuri Sobolti. Constantine Jarinić to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to ensure that the social security of health workers in the Kirovograd region is respected. Sergio Rybalka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the establishment of an intergovernmental commission between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Groups of National Deputies (Vojciekhovsky, Yemen, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the city’s Kiev head on the Russian street, 64 in the Darnicki district of Kiev, and the surrounding area of health care, restoration of well - being, and public order. People’s Deputies ( The boy, the powder and the others. A total of 8 deputies) to Ukraine’s finance minister on the cost of repairing roads under State guarantees by the State Road Agency. Ruslana Demczak to the Ministry of Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the broadcasting of Ukrainian television channels in cable networks of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect former WAT workers, Nicopolbud, in the matter of the establishment of a fair pension in connection with the loss of documents necessary for its registration, in the liquidation of this enterprise. Jury Wozniak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the financing of the construction of the Public Education School I-III, was in the village of Gorbaków in the Goshtany district of the Plain region, at the expense of the State Fund for Regional Development of Construction. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration, the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev City, the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in Kiev, temporarily acting as head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, the Director-General of Kievenbud Community for the use of response measures for the protection of the rights of the territorial community of Kiev through the construction of trade facilities on Kyoto Street, 10 in the right-wing district of the capital. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, deputy of the Kiev City Council, first deputy prosecutor of Kiev City, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in Kiev for information on the application of measures to protect the rights of the territorial community of Kiev by refusing to build a commercial and commercial complex at the Brovarski Avenue near the Chernigowska Metro in the right-wing district of the capital. Gregory of Times to the heads of the District Councils and the District State Administrations of Herceivsky, Globický, Novoselický, Stóžinetski District of the Cherniewec Region on the use of measures to implement the Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian) Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of debt recovery to the State Territorial and Sectoral Union of the South West Railways for the provision of services for the transport of separate tax categories of citizens by rail. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of conservation measures in the city of Korosten. Mikhail Golka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the extent of external borrowing during the last year and the reasons for the reduction of government debt. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the status of negotiations with foreign creditors regarding the restructuring of Ukraine's government debt. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the reference to the list of international road routes of road R-15 from the city of Zwkwa Lvivsk, towards the international point of entry "Ugrini-Dolgobichov". Jaroslava Dubnević to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the return of the shoulder of passenger train No. 142-No. 141 to Lviv-West Locomotive depot. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Odessa District Administration for cleaning and deepening the Russels of the Kochilnik and Chaga rivers, as well as the restoration and construction of the water management system of the city of Arciz Odessa. Vadim Krivenk and Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the illegal establishment of large lakes and lemons in the Odessa region, including marine, special commodity farms. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Provincial District Administration, the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, the Chief of Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Vinnitsk Region for the establishment of routes of smuggling into Ukraine, the involvement of persons involved in importing, manufacturing, processing and distribution into the territory of the Ukraine of the "Foreign drug use", the listing of drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors of the Government of Ukraine, the "Foreign Government of Ukraine" of 2000 as the Prosecutor of Ukraine. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, State Agency for the Management of the Zone of Disengagement, Head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of Ukraine for payment of membership fees for 2014-2015 to the International Atomic Energy Agency (MAGATE), in order to prevent Ukraine from being deprived of its right to vote in MAGATE. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the legitimate rights and interests of pensioners. Olesia Long to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of the capital repair of the crash shelter of apartment house No.12/36 on the Tolstoy Way in the town of Znamenka Kirovograd. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to conduct a state-level environmental expertise on the purpose of building the Bilanów Mining and Enriching Combined. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenko, Kojemyakina, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of the constitutional rights of the condemned. Groups of National Deputies (Semeniahs, Wessels, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the railway connection along the direction of Kyiv-Mariupol, Lviv-Mariupol, Kharkiv-Mariupol. Jaroslava Markevich to the President General Designer of the Antonov State Enterprise on the insurance of the aviation risks of the Antonov State Enterprise. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the maintenance of state registers. Jury Devyanka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the results of the verification provided by the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power, conducted in relation to the Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Alexander Tereshuka. Jury Devyanka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of copies of declarations on property, income, expenditure, and financial obligations for the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Jurinec, Klimpush-Cincadze and others). A total of 14 deputies) to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine to provide information on the state of implementation of the State Programme for the Development of Cross-border Cooperation for 2011-2015. Dimitar Timchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Investigation into the activities of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, which led to the discreditment of the Special Operations Force. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the conduct of checks on the economic justification of the calculation of the increased tariffs for the transport of passengers in the passenger transport of Poltava. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of a service investigation into the situation that resulted from the transfer of Ukrainian Internal Affairs officials in the Poltav region who participated in the anti-terror operation to lower posts. Igora Brichenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the cessation of illegal land grabbing by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the inescapability of the responsibility of those responsible for the raiding of the orcs, especially the valuable national lands of the armed and selective centres of the country. Hanni Hopko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to mark a significant date at the state level on 2 September 2015 – the 600th anniversary of the first written mention of the city of Odessa, the strengthening of the work of the authorities and local self-government to prepare for the proper marking of this Jubilee for the participation of the first persons of the state and foreign guests. Hanni Hopko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an immediate resumption of passenger rail connections with Mariupul, including the restoration of the train routes of Kiev-Mariupol, Lviv-Mariupol and Kharkiv-Mariupol, and the provision of reliable protection for the railway in the Mariupol direction. Taras Batenka is responsible for the responsibility of the National Commission’s head, which regulates the state’s energy and municipal services to verify the activities of frauds that deliberately include surpluses of counters in the receipt, and makes calculations for natural gas at higher prices that lead to the enrichment of individuals. Tarasa Batenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is Ukraine's Minister of Culture for Information on the Number and Status of Old Printing and Rare Editions, which are of unique value and are an integral part of the Ukrainian and global scientific and cultural heritage and require immediate restoration and preservation. Alexander Xenjuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the offence of absconding the execution of the Winnicki District Administrative Court by the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine. Eduard Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Odessa District Administration, the Odessa City Council, and the address of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Irina Manchenko on the need for a state-level social assistance programme for patients with glaucoma. Eduard Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the request of the Military and Medical Clinic Centre of the South Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the need to create comprehensive conditions for the treatment of military personnel and planning for the acquisition of a modern fixed angiographic facility. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Chervakova and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of full and reliable information about the deputy and counsellors of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Bogdan Dubnewich to the head of the Lviv District Council on the unsatisfactory work of the rapid medical teams. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for Health Reform. Alexander Suprunenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the use of systemic measures to eliminate natural garbage dumps in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. Valeria Lunchenk to the Director of the State Enterprise, U.S.A., in the Zakartat region, for information on the status of an expert on the cost-effective part of the work project: the capital repair of the residence of a citizen of Mikola Aleinnikov. Igora Artyushenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, Secretary of the Zaporez City Council for the right of residents to privatize rooms. Igora Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the criminal inaction of officials in internal affairs and on the existence of signs of corruption during pretrial investigations into crimes. Sergey Rudika to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the involvement of guilty persons in falsifying the election of Ukrainian national deputies in the constituency No. 198 of the Cherka region. Sergey Rudika to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the illegal cancellation of payment of salary allowance for the prestige of teachers of 20% and librarians of 50% in the Cherkas region. Sergia Eutuska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District Council, the Odessa City Head on the verification of the illegal change by the investor of the targeted assignment of the land in the Odessa Park area. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status and results of the investigation in criminal proceedings No. 1201410010014777 since 31 December 2014. John Melniczuk to the Head of the National Aviation Service of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Enterprise for Air Traffic Services of Ukraine, acting as Director-General of the State Enterprise, Borispol International Airport for information on airlines registered in Ukraine and licensed to provide passenger services, air cargo. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the elimination of discriminatory acts against persons who are effectively deprived of the right to adopt because of the existence of a suspended or suspended judicial order. Alexander Feldman to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the reasons and soundness of the decision to abolish the office of the Government Commissioner for Ethnic Policy. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the inaction of the leadership of the Yavorov military range in the person of Lieutenant Colonel Alexi Shevchenk. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of office and the official falsification of the head of the Jovkow District State Administration of the Lviv Region of the Stur Hope. Irina Suslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Military Prosecutor of the Central Region of Ukraine for the illegal transfer and raid of the land of Mayan. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the inactivity of Kyiv City Head Vitali Klicka in the protection of the interests of the Osocorka community and the need to break the lease agreement of the land area transferred by the Kyiv City Council for the use of the TOV "SCAY-BUD LTD" for the construction of premises of a commercial and entertainment complex on the prospectus of Zhajan in the Darnit district of Kiev. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on official unemployment and violation of the rights of citizens by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ukraine, in particular through the task of bodily harm and assistance to an organized criminal group during protests at a scandalous slum in the Osocorca region of Kiev. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of violations of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funding for specialised health-care units during the transitional period. We finished the questions. Please, let's move on to "Variance." We have 15 minutes left, please sign in. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask of you, ladies and gentlemen of the people. Please. We have 20 minutes to complete the meeting. I'll check it out. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I ask you to take your seats. Yes, as long as you fight, no one will speak at all. So I'm going to rewritable. Ladies and gentlemen, you can continue to fight, and no one will speak at all. So there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, [[B in m in s a l in]] National deputy Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, gave him the word Skuratovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u201	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, who are still in this room. I want to draw attention again to those problems that concern Ukrainian citizens. First of all, it's a decline in the retirement age for women. In January this year, following the initiative of the Radical Party faction, the bill's author, National MP Yuri Suhević, Parliament voted a bill that gives women who have reached 55 years of age the right to retire on condition that they have 30 years of employment. In January the president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, vetoed the law. Since January, unfortunately, Parliament has not found the time and opportunity to consider this law in order to overcome the veto of the President and to allow our beautiful women, our Ukrainian flowers, who have worked their entire lives, have made it difficult to give them an opportunity to retire at 55 years of age. After all, it is obvious that at 55 years of age, few people will take jobs. And it turns out that up to 60 years, you have to wait for them to get a pension, and then there's not going to be a pension, and life is gone. We therefore demand that a bill be put into the Supreme Council Hall without delay that allows women 55 years of age to retire and overcome the veto of the President. Similarly, we believe that the time has come to abolish the standard of 15 percent of retirement in working pensioners. The state budget figures show that the overturning of government budget income in the first quarter of 2015 is 21.5 billion dollars. We believe that the opportunity has come and the time is now in Parliament to vote the law and return working pensioners to full retirement People have worked hard. No one has the right to take their pension. No one has the right to deprive them of the money they've earned -- it's immoral. And that's why the faction of the Radical Party, which is always alert to the interests of the working people, the pensioners, the women, the men, all the Ukrainian citizens, we demand to consider the bill, and return 15 percent of the pensions that our pensioners do not receive today. Our third requirement of the Radical Party is to index wages and pensions. As I said before, government budget revenues allow for indexation, i.e. higher wages and pensions, because tariffs have risen, prices for everything have risen, and wages and pensions have not increased. So the Radical Party faction, which always protects people's interests, requires a raise in wages and pensions, a reduction in tariffs, a return to the pension they took.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u202	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u203	and all my actions, I call on my fellow Parliamentary to protect the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens who are looking forward to us, who are looking forward to decisive, radical reforms aimed at raising living standards, creating jobs, providing young people with jobs, wages, housing and prospects. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u205	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Dear voters! Today, unfortunately, this hall is empty in the session room on Friday, since the coalition and virtually all factions have been dispersed, leaving a handful of deputies who are still concerned about the fate of the Ukrainian people and who are working. I would like to raise the subject, because there is rarely a chance to speak, because this time again they want to break the Rules, and I think it is unacceptable. And so on Friday, just in the matter of "Variance," we're going to speak to the non-frustrational MPs of all those who are left behind, who want to speak. Addressing a very painful topic is protecting peasants, it's a question of raising the price of milk. Because we have witnessed that the bill was not reviewed again this week, although it was in the order of the day, as it were. I realize that there is always enough time to get to the subject of a raise, for example, of a judicial assembly for people who now have to pay a few times more to protect their rights in the courts, but at the same time when people raise the issue of violent rural survival, that is to say, raising the price of milk, which is practically the cow of the only breadwinner. Because people today have no other income, so working hard, we see that the trend is very negative. Humans practically carve animals, give them up, because there is no sense, it's hard to work and get coins. Today milk is cheaper than water. Prices for food have grown, and milk is still at the limit of order 2 bracelets, 2.5 bracelets, and this is a disgrace, because in these circumstances, people can't survive. There is virtually no other job in the village, but they work hard, and they are treated with contempt. Therefore, we also demand that our political power that immediately after the next plenary week the bill on raising milk prices 2089 was necessarily included in the agenda in the first part so that we can consider it. Because if that's not done, then we leave the right to block the rostrum. We believe that ignoring the rights of the Ukrainians, wiping their feet, is not an option. And I want the hall to be defined, are we still in the interests of oligarchs, processors, or are we protecting simple peasants? And so it's up to you, MPs, whether we're going to give the peasants the opportunity to work, or whether we're going to give them a decent salary for their work, because we understand that the village is now on the verge of extinction. And in such actions, as the authorities are doing today, this antisocial reform that they are implementing, that virtually eliminating village councils, the pressure on the countryside, taking out aid and paying off young cattle, all of this leads to the extinction of the village. So our task is to help the villagers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u206	Thank you. Osuhovsky, a national deputy, gave the word Suprunenko. National MP Suprunenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u207	Alexander Suprunenko, majority constituency 216, city of Kiev Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You've got to be kidding me. You've got I have to officially turn to the new Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Yuri Terentiev, to verify the economic validity of the fares for travel in the city’s Kiev metropolis and ground transportation to the capital. Yes, as early as January 30, 2015, the head of the capital administration issued orders to set tariffs for the carriage of passengers and the cost of travel tickets, in urban passenger transport, which operates in normal traffic mode. This document sets the following fares for passenger transport, in subway 4 bracelets, on buses, trams, and trolleybuses operating in normal mode 3 bracelets. To my profound conviction, these tariffs were raised without a proper public and professional discussion of the economic validity of these tariffs. Without an independent audit of the financial and economic situation of the relevant utilities. Regrettably, the Antimonopoly Committee did not check the validity of the tariffs nor analyzed them. In view of what I have pointed out in early February, a parliamentary appeal was made to the previous head of the Antimonopoly Committee to verify compliance with the requirements of legislation when adopting the relevant decisions by the Kiev City Head. The answer of the Antimonopoly Committee to my appeal was partly confirmed by the assumptions, as it was known in the calculation of tariffs that the capital administration had underestimated the planned number of passengers using public transport in the current year, as well as other infringements. As early as February, the committee responded to the request for further verification. However, it has been three months, and there are still no answers. And I have the impression that the Antimonopoly Committee has either failed to carry out the tests required by the law or silences its results, which are certainly inconsolable for the Kiev City Head. Taking this into account, I ask the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Yuri Terentiev, to properly organise my consideration of my parliamentary appeal and to report on the economic justification or non-justification of public transport tariffs in Kiev and to report on the legality of the actions of the relevant officials when adopting tariff increases. I also ask the public to take effective measures to identify violations by the capital officials and to report such facts to the public. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yuri Derevyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u209	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Deputy, Honourable Ukrainian People! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. The government reports that budgets are being implemented, the state budget is up 21 billion, and local budgets are up 40 percent. At the same time, we point out to the government that these redundancies were largely made, especially the State budget, due to the fact that from the beginning of the year the State budget had abolished basic social benefits for doctors, teachers, teachers, and severely frozen wages and pensions indexation. The political party "Will" registered bills: 2180 and 2186, which are aimed at restoring all social benefits, including the indexation of pensions and salaries for the budget. Now when it's said today that the inflation rate over the four months is about 46 percent, I want to say that the esteemed colleagues who, according to Steve Hanke, professor of John Hopkins University is the magazine Forbes -- the inflation rate is about 111 percent in four months. I want to draw your attention to the fact that in small population areas in rural areas, budgeters, teachers, doctors have long forgotten what it is like to buy new clothes because they buy them in a secondhand; they've long forgotten that it's so nutritious to eat because wages don't allow these people to do so. At the same time, the government promised, including coalition factions, the first five to six months to review the state budget and restore it. The government promised, but nothing was done. Dear colleagues, apart from the intense social tension, it also causes the consumer market to cool sharply and, as a result, to slow down economic activity. The political party "Will" urges a colleague to support Bill 2180, 2186 colleagues from the Radical Party, "self-help", "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front" in order to correct this mistake. We think that now that all people are doing their best to support their relatives, their friends who are fighting in the ATO zone, they're giving the last penny to keep our army from holding the enemy, to keep the aggressor, at the same time, we need to bring these bills right now for the next session week, to support this initiative, and to restore the social benefits involved in feeding children at school, which are related to the acquisition of textbooks that apply to teachers' allowances, doctors for their professions, and to check the notebooks to set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u210	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u211	All the payments were nothing but part of the salary. And we think we need to restore the constitutional rights of citizens, restore social justice, and index citizens' incomes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u212	Thank you. Last performance. Andrew Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u213	Glory to Ukraine! Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. On that day 154 years ago, Taras Shevchenk’s will was partially fulfilled, and his ashes were carried to Ukraine and buried in Caneva. I don't understand why the honourable deputies, who are so few, sit instead of honoring Father Taras and getting up. This is what the eyewitness of these events said to Gregory Czystokhowski: "They took the grave out, put it on a Cossack's cart, covered it with red Chinese. Instead of the oxen, the baptized people took the children of their father, who returned from a distant land to their home. As of December 1, 2013, the Ukrainian people had already begun to fully implement the "Promise" of Father Taras when they rose up against the king of Moscow, when our heroes in the East were encroaching on our sacred Ukrainian land. But what did Father Taras dream of? "And there shall be a son, and he shall have, and there shall be men on the earth!" And every Ukrainian family will have their own "garden cherry around the house." When older people have a normal pension. When young people have jobs and wages. When everyone has confidence in tomorrow. What do we have today? What Father-Taras wrote is that we are all "like fortifications" that we have today about many deputies who have now fled in particular. Imagine, by the way, if doctors, teachers, firefighters worked the way the Supreme Council deputies worked -- maybe a man of 35 at work, less than a tenth now. And no punk who doesn't get paid will ever give up, you know? What a shame! That's it. of those deputies who come to the Supreme Council, only when they need them, only from their business or mercantile other interests and voters who vote in favour of Greece for such deputies in Father-Taras County wrote, "People, people! If you ask your mother for a piece of rotten sausage, you will give it back." We have all the trouble that many people (and members of the Supreme Council, including) are willing to sell their mother for a piece of rotten sausage, ready to sell the Motherland. I'd like to have you, ladies and gentlemen. I'll tell you. Give me ten seconds, please. Yesterday, I saw with my own eyes the members of the Supreme Council in the office of Groysman convince them to vote for certain bills and bribe the sausage in a direct sense. So tell me, does a country like this have a future where deputies can be bribed?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u214	Thank you. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u215	Among the deputies who tried to bribe for sausage was Oleg Lazko, and he refused. And here for our entire radical party team, there are things that are more valuable than sausage than money. This is Motherland, this is freedom, and this is the future of the Ukrainian people. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-22-m0.u216	Thank you. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on June 2 at 10 a.m. Thank you.
