ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the hall, take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall, prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that today is also a very important day in terms of the consideration of drafts. I'd like to highlight some of these basic things, this is a question of decentralization of power that we're going to be considering today. As you know, we've decided before that we're going to dedicate this day to education. But at the suggestion of the Committee on Education and Science, we determined that this day would take place on December 10. They will prepare more carefully for this. Since the Education Law is so large, it still needs to be worked out and discussed in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today we have decentralization from two parts. This is a matter of administrative services. I think we have this marasmatic post-Radians hybrid system that has caused corruption, just to destroy and make services for people simpler, more accessible. They should be much smaller. And we have to vote and do it today. I think we'll be the only ones here. Second position. In our country, 159 territorial communities held their elections. In fact, we have established territorial communities today, we need to support them today by making technical decisions that will allow them to be budgeted, funded, registered as necessary, and this is also an important issue of decentralization, of the establishment at the basic level of precisely capable territorial communities. So this too is a very important question. And I would probably like to highlight among other issues this issue of the Public Service Act. Today we have an opportunity with you, given that this Law on State Service is extremely important, and we've been working on it for over a year and a half, I think the committee is a professional committee with an expert environment, with factions involved, and I think that it's a titanic work to get out of at least that document that could be supported in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And what's important is that you and I get in the country mechanisms to create a professional public service. There must be a professional army in Ukraine, a professional army. In Ukraine there must be a professional civil servant who does more than just go to work, gives birth to corruption, and earns a salary, who can perform his duties in full quality. These are just a few laws that we are going to consider with you today. Another law in the package of educational laws is the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, which is now being prepared for second reading. And, I don't think there's any point in moving it until December 10th, we're going to be able to look at it today. A few dozen, colleagues, laws, by the way, one that will allow us to read second reading, not large packets of paper, but to receive electronically all the materials for effective work. That means we're going to be able to introduce new technologies into our work with you. So there are many laws, they are necessary. So I'm counting on us to be very thorough and very systematic about making decisions. By the way, we did a pretty good job last night, and we had a pretty good day on Tuesday. So I think we should continue the effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, let's begin. Please, Your Honor, take your time. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, today we are starting a day of law in second reading. Appropriately, please, please, take your seats, get ready for registration, and we'll start the registration now. Please, colleagues, we're preparing to register. Please prepare for registration. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:08:24]] Dear colleagues, 316 national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, announcing the creation of an interfractional parliamentary union called the Voice of the Community. I'm informing you about the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Voice of the Community in the Supreme Council. The heads of the Interfractional Union "The Voice of the Community" were chosen by the national deputies Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich and Scripnik Alexiyyovich; they are members of this union. Colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 0954), draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the system of road traffic management, second reading. Table's ready. I invite the head of the Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich Dubnevic, to report. Please, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Colleagues, may I have your attention, let's concentrate, let's work! Thus: 0954, colleagues, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system. Table's ready. Please, I'm sorry. 1 correction, Unguran. Don't insist. The 2nd amendment is rejected. Unguran does not insist. 18th Amendment, Ungurian. Don't insist. All of it. In fact, we went through the repairs. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the committee head to comment on the law. Colleagues, your attention is required. Then I will allow myself to speak to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your view is suggested in a second reading of Law 0954 on the Transfer of State Roads to Local Authorities. This law has entered the session hall for the second time. First, we asked the Transport Committee to return it to read again by making a number of amendments, one of which the Transport Committee believes is very important. That this law goes into effect when a road fund is created. In view of the fact that the two bills registered in the Supreme Council, 2724 and 2725 were prepared for the first reading, but 2724 had already passed the Main Budget Committee on the Establishment of the Road Fund and 2725 had not yet been considered, that is why there is a proposal for this law to be sent back to the second reading and filed together, along with two bills on the creation of the Road Fund. If we, as national deputies in this Hall, vote on the transfer of public roads to local authorities, we are obliged to provide funding for the repair of these roads. Therefore, my proposal as committee head: this bill to vote on the second reading and to consider this bill in a package of laws 2724 and 2725 on the creation of a road fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, a minute, please, Anatoly Matvienko, and then we'll listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u4	Anatoly Matvienko. Dear colleagues, this law is really interesting in terms of decentralization, but you have to know that the position of the official Ministry of Finance currently denies the creation of a road fund. And since this issue is not agreed upon in the government itself, we cannot pass the road without the appropriate funding mechanism. That is why this law is generally supportive, but only after we adopt the Road Fund Act and its distribution, in which proportions to local budgets and state budgets, and only after that can we vote in favour of this law. We can now create a colossal, and so I'm asking you to either take it off the table, or vote for re-reading, but only after the adoption of the Road Fund Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u5	Colleagues, please, Pivovarsky, Minister. Please, Pivovarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head, today. Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today we would have the opportunity to bring the Ukrainian dream of quality European roads one step closer to the adoption of the bill, 0954. This bill is revolutionary, it's what our neighbours are -- the Belarusians, the Poles, the Czechs, the Slovaks, the Slovenians and others -- have already passed. This bill not only decentralizes road agriculture and clearly determines who is responsible for the roads of national importance, for the roads of local importance, it also introduces the notion of 7-year contracts for the operation of roads, something that has never been in this country at all. And no normal operating company could afford to make a normal investment horizon for the purchase of technology, etc. The bill introduces the concept, the new concept of FIDIC, which means there will be new standards, international standards for engineering quality control. On the other hand, considering that today, the Transport Committee has just changed its position on the bill, the bill was.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u7	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u8	15 seconds. I agree with the Transport Committee if the Transport Committee insists. I have great respect for the position of the Transport Committee. I agree to make an amendment, to postpone the bill and to adopt it with the Road Fund Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u9	We're moving? Colleagues. Okay, okay. So we're putting it off. Do you have a deal? As decided by the committee, we're putting it off. All right, we've discussed it, according to the committee's decision, and we're putting it in a package of three laws. Is that the position taken? The committee's proposal was, we're putting it down. It's all there is, a decision being discussed. Let's move on, dear fellows. Question of decentralization, second reading. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal that we now consider three laws: 2983, 2982 and 2981. These laws are all related to the decentralization of administrative services. I think it would be logical for us to now go through the tables on each of these laws and then go to voting as related laws. Is there no objection? Let's go. Please, 2983, Victor Valeriovich Halasyuk, head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please, 2983, draft Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Physical Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. It's going for the revisions or, please, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, I present your consideration of the draft Law 2983 on State registration of legal persons, natural persons - entrepreneurs and social formations. This is one of the three bills that we're going to be looking at. This is a real systemic and profound reform of Ukraine's registration system. I'll give you a brief explanation of what this is all about. The point is to move from the rigid bureaucratic vertical that exists today in the Ministry of Justice to the transfer of these functions to administrations, to government administrations, notaries, authorized individuals. What will it allow you to have? This will allow citizens and entrepreneurs to receive a qualitatively different service, not in monopoly mode as it is today, but in free competition mode, more than 7 points of access only by notaries throughout the country. It's very important. What will this allow, this reform? It will shorten the list of documents required, it will introduce a completely transparent single register that will be accessible to all citizens and subject to control. This reform, which is extremely important, places almost 1 billion dollars in local budgets. And I would like to emphasize, my dear colleagues, that this is just an example of real decentralization, when it's not just responsibility, it's not just authorization, it's real resources. Registers are expected to increase responsibility, paper statements are cancelled, and electronics are introduced through the single electronic service portal. The procedures for State registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs are harmonized. This is a real breakthrough law, and this is an example of the fruitful cooperation of the Ministry of Justice, which has taken on enormous work on the basis of this bill, and national deputies, authors from all factions, from many groups. Dear colleagues, this is a real systemic step towards making services more accessible to make them closer, so that no one can say that there is some kind of corruption, there is some kind of bureaucracy. Each local authority will now know that it depends on the quality of the services provided. Dear colleagues, I'd like more. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u12	I would like to highlight the very important clarification proposed for the committee. The committee proposes the adoption of Bill 2983 in the second reading and in general, taking into account the following clarification. Since we turned down the banks as registrants, we have introduced special accredited entities because of the fact that we have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u13	Keep going. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u14	Today, the House of Justice is created and functioning successfully in Odessa. In order for this House of Justice to continue to function, and this positive practice could be extended to other cities in Ukraine, we foresee the next important amendment in the bill. It is proposed that the bill be completed in the following order. Please record under the stenogram. In paragraph 5, paragraph 7, of the first section of the bill, pages 9 and 10, line 39 in the table, line 29. The words “criteria and requirements for which, as well as the order in which accreditation and monitoring are carried out, are defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (hereinafter accredited entities)” shall be deleted. Instead, complete paragraph 17 with four paragraphs of the following table of contents. "Accredited subject may be a legal person of public law, in a labour relationship with which there are no fewer than three civil registrars, and who, prior to the beginning of the exercise of powers in the field of public registration, has entered into a civil liability insurance agreement with a minimum amount of insurance to a thousand minimum wage. A contract with another subject of State registration and/or notary when an accredited subject exercises solely in the part of the acceptance and issuance of documents in the field of State registration. The accreditation of subjects and the monitoring of the conformity of such entities to accreditation requirements shall be carried out by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. ” In addition, honourable colleagues, in view of the huge number of amendments to this bill, over 80 appeals, 421 amendments to the national MPs, of which a total, partial or editorial amount of 259, was rejected 162, the bill also needs technical and legal work, which we will do together with legal administration on your orders. These are changes such as changes in numbering in a series of articles: 17, 25, 27, 28 and more. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this real, deep, radical reform of the Ukrainian registration system, which will make the services closer to the people who will ensure their competitiveness, which will provide additional budgets for local communities. And to support Bill 2983 as drafted by the committee, taking into account the bill that I just issued, as well as the technical legal process. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u16	Vladimir Borisovich, ad hoc, ad hoc.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u17	Ad hoc. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in view of the huge number of rights and the fact that the bill is of a holistic nature, I have an ad hoc proposal to vote on it without considering any individual amendments to the committee’s editorial work and considering what I have just heard under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will now proceed to the consideration of this draft law. Please take your places to vote, colleagues. Please take your places to vote. Paul Petrenko, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! I really want to thank all the national MPs who have taken a very active part in the drafting of these three laws. This was the case when the Supreme Council, together with the government, joined together and made a very quality product for every Ukrainian in the last seven months. The point is that we are finally destroying one of the most corrupt bodies, the State Registration Service, which was created in 2011 and whose goal was to create barriers to registration, bureaucracy and bribe collection. With these laws, we introduce a lot of money that provides for the full refusal of the Ministry of Justice from the registration functions. We're the first ministry to give up our function. I'll transfer authority and money to places. Implementation of electronic services. And, most importantly, creating competition in the area of registration when a Ukrainian citizen is able to get a quality registration service or a notary, or at a local authority, or at a United Society Center, or at a justice facility created by an appropriate district government. These are laws that apply without reducing 20 million Ukrainians. During the year, more than 20 million Ukrainians have been seeking various services to justice authorities. These three laws actually create a new philosophy for the provision of these services in our country. After many rounds of discussion of these laws, several issues have been raised that need your attention right now. In fact, all the laws are agreed upon, and there is a great request for us to vote on these laws in the texts that the committees are proposing, because these are complex laws that regulate very many procedural points among themselves. There was a question (I'll just call them right away) about the accredited subjects. That is, those subjects who can provide such services. The MPs made warnings and asked that the laws prescribe requirements for these accredited entities. I'm asking you, Mr. Head, to give me a little bit, and I'm going to give you the wording that can be included in two of these laws, and we're going to take away the questions that have arisen in a number of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u21	Please
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u22	So the first thing I want to say is that another subject, an accredited subject who can provide registration services, we want to propose that they be state utilities. For example, they are now created in Odessa, the House of Justice. In the law, we suggest that accredited entities may be legal persons of public law, i.e. state and municipal enterprises, in employment relationships with which there are at least three civil registrants and who, prior to the beginning of the exercise of public registration powers, have entered into contracts for civil liability insurance with a minimum amount of insurance in the thousand minimum wage levels established by law on 1 January of the calendar year. The other one. Contracts with other subjects of the state registration of rights and/or notary to perform the respective functions of the front office. These accredited entities, in fact their accreditation and monitoring, will be carried out by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the Cabinet regulations. The bottom line is that we will give, apart from the local authorities, our government administrations the opportunity to create utilities that will also provide quality services. The second question that came up is about putting these functions in place. Since January 1, this year, virtually all local authorities have to perform registration functions. We suggested in the first reading that this date be fixed. Deputies for the second reading, realizing that time was very limited, suggested that in areas where local authorities would not be able to begin their registration functions on January 1, these functions would be performed by the Ministry of Justice’s registrars. I propose that we limit this date to the next term: April 30, 2016. So in the Final Positions in paragraph 2, the Final Positions, in part three, add that the authorities of the State Registry of the Ministry of Justice exercise in areas where local authorities have not yet taken up the function of registering these functions, but no later than 30 April 2016. Dear colleagues, all other positions of reconciliation. And these are the laws, indeed, of reform that every Ukrainian needs. Since the first day these laws begin to work, 7,000 notaries will begin to register. We'll take the queues off, we'll take the bureaucracy off, and we'll create real comfort for the Ukrainians. Please support these laws as drafted by the committee with the suggestions I have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u23	Thank you. In fact, we are, to be honest, respected colleagues. Take your seats. To be honest, for a year and a half, they went to this law. From 2010 to 2013, all administrative services were centralized and corrupt. This decentralization and simplification will put a dot in the post - Soviet marasmatic service system. Simplification, reduction in the number of expansions in the provision of these services and so forth. So it's an extremely important anti-corruption law, a law that will allow for the proper construction of an administrative service system, and this post-Radians system, where everything was solved by mud, will be repealed by these laws at all. So, colleagues, please take your seats, your esteemed colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the head of the committee, the committee, to consider this law as a committee. So make ad hoc about dealing with this issue and consider it now. So I'm putting this proposal to a vote and I'm asking you to back it up, and I'm asking you to back it up, and then we can work on it. Is it accepted? Please vote on the committee's proposal. Take your seats. Ad hoc, we vote. Vote, colleagues, vote. Please support this proposal. [[10:34:50]] For 216 Dear colleagues, please take your seats again. And once again, I'd like to announce a proposal, and I'd like everyone's support. If someone wants to overthrow the anti-corruption law in this room, they can do it, but I think it's a crime. A great deal of work has been done. A great deal of work was done by an expert environment, by associations of different kinds. So I'd like you to take your seats, colleagues! And I ask everyone to uphold this law. It's a law for the locals. Ad hoc, ad hoc, ad hoc, and we're looking at the committee's version. Please, are you ready? Vote. Ad hoc as a committee, for second reading, we vote. As far as this procedure is concerned, please support. [[10:35:50]] For 203 Colleagues, we have a thousand amendments, are you ready to go after thousands of amendments? That's what they were What were they doing on the committees? All we're talking about right now is procedure. Let's do it again, Victor Halasyuk, please. You guys, back up, this is the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Now, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u25	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Now the question is whether there will be a real reform of the registration service, or whether we will reload it. Dear colleagues! Have so many real reforms taken place in the country? Or have we had so many cases where the ministry itself was one of the initiators of the very reform of giving up the system they have today. A centralized bureaucratic system of state registration, transfer it to places so that each local community can take responsibility for this, provide these high-quality services. Dear colleagues, this bill is a comprehensive bill that allows this reform to be implemented. And it's a question of whether access will be normal for citizens and normal quality, whether there will be corruption, whether there will be a House of Justice in Odessa, whether there will be such houses of justice in other cities, or citizens without bribes, without corruption being able to register real estate and business. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill now as a whole in the Committee's drafting, taking into account the amendments that I and the Minister of Justice have just made. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u27	Thank you, Victor. Dear colleagues, I would still ask everyone to calm down. I understand that we can now impose any situation on any occasion. But I think this law is fundamentally important, and a great deal of work has been done by a committee, a professional environment, to find a solution to those amendments that have just been sounded so that it can be approved and just do the work normally. So, dear colleagues, I think that this proposal, which the committee has heard, is very appropriate. My colleagues, once again, I stress the need to address this issue. And so was the committee's proposal. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u28	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Dear government officials! Our faction supported these two ballots. But there's a question that, I take it, when there's a hall, these are so-called authorized organs. We understand the responsibility of the local authorities, it is written directly in the Administrative Code, the Criminal Code, for unreliable data. We understand the responsibility of notaries -- both private and public -- in case they go into some kind of deal with their conscience, they lose their license, their right to a profession. What is the responsibility of these authorized bodies? This is the key question that is now ringing the hall. So without answering that question, I see that some of the deputies don't want to vote. The request: either to clarify it so that there is a clear understanding. Because you understand that this is a property right, and then the citizens in the courts will look for who this authorized body had the right to carry out this activity. This is a key question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u29	A clear, specific question. Please, Paul Petrenko, a minute. Or Victor Halasyuk? Victor Halasyuk, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Sergey, thank you for a very good question. There were indeed questions about this standard when it was formulated in such a way that accredited entities were determined in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, I read from the rostrum the paper that takes it from the Cabinet of Ministers, transfers it to direct regulation by the level of the law. I would like to stress once again that the accredited entities, according to the law that I have just heard, are a legal person of public law, i.e. it cannot be a private company that has three, at least three state registrants who have a civil liability insurance contract and so on. So these criteria, they're clearly set at the level of the law. So we think that this is absolutely important. If we don't support it today because we've made these proposals from our colleagues: just to clean up all the other accredited subjects in general, we have to understand that there's going to be a closure and a house of justice in Odessa, and it's not going to spread, it's a good practice. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this editorial, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u31	Finish up, please. This is what the law now defines, and I think it can be absolutely acceptable. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Take your seats, colleagues, get ready to vote. Please give me a minute, Paul Petrenko. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to confirm the words of the committee head. In fact, we now have a number of our local authorities who have created the same house of justice in Odessa. And these accredited entities are exclusively state-owned or municipal enterprises that are fully responsible for their activities. And so I would like, once again, when we vote, to take into account my amendment that the transition period may be up to 30 April 2016. Until now, all local authorities must assume these functions, and Minust will eventually cease to provide registration services in areas where these functions will be assumed by our local authorities. Please take this into account when voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u33	Please, we're taking our seats. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, please. Self-help. Colleagues, we're taking our seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the law, of course, will have to be supported, and the Self-Help faction will vote. Unfortunately, however, it has a number of such gaps and shortcomings, such as those relating to accredited agencies that relate to the procedure for the transfer of the registration case. And I think that after the adoption of this bill, coalition representatives should come together and work together to develop a new bill that will improve those conflicting norms so that we don't create further problems in the functioning of the registration service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to emphasize that it is clear that any law can be more perfect. But the amendments that Victor Halasyuk made and Justice Minister Petrenko made, they're perfectly normal to take away all the discussion issues that we've had. So once again, I would like to put to the vote a motion for approval of the committee's proposal for a vote on the committee's version of the draft law. Please ask all national deputies to take their places to vote, and please support ad hoc. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Ready? Calm down. Ready? Please support this proposal, please support the ad hoc committee's proposal for an ad hoc amendment committee, which was delivered by Victor Halasyuk and Minister Petrenko. I think the hearing was a position, and so was Ruslan Sidorovich. Please, colleagues, we are voting on this proposal from the committee. Please. Stop the vote, stop it, stop it. Please, Egor Sobolev, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, all self-help supports this law completely, it's a wonderful idea of decentralization, a beautiful anti-corruption idea. We are grateful to all authors who have prepared this law for the second reading. But it's Parliament, we can't stop looking at the amendment, so it's the whole procedure for the second reading, for this elected Parliament, that's what it exists for. We cannot rape the procedure simply because we need the law. Let's spend more time, we'll be very careful, and we'll adopt a good law in a good way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u37	This law was better prepared for the second reading, probably for a few months. But, well, dear colleagues, there's an offer, I'm going to put it to a vote right now, it's absolutely right from the committee. very much work has been done on the preparation of this law and Parliament has the right to determine the procedure for dealing with this issue. So I'm going to put this motion back on the vote. I want to point out that there are thousands of amendments and more, we still have the government service, we still have a lot of laws on decentralization, we have laws on unified territorial communities, and we have the right, like the Ukrainian Parliament, not ignoring anything, but taking into account in this law the very best that we have today, to vote with such a procedure and there are no objections. So I would ask, my fellow Members, to identify and support the proposal of a committee to consider such a law under the ad hoc procedure, especially since all proposals have already been taken into account by accredited entities, including: Ready to vote, my friends? Vote. A committee proposal for ad hoc. Please vote on the committee's proposal. Please support all colleagues, regardless of factions, groups. Please support the offer. [[10:47:20]] For 208 We have 208 votes. This one. Again? Well, let's do it again, colleagues. Please make another offer, same offer. Please vote, please support all members of the national MPs, regardless of groups and factions, friends. It's a matter of local self-government. It's a matter of transferring powers and destroying a corrupt centralized system. What can divide us here? Please vote on this ad hoc proposal. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:48:18]] For 215 215. Dear colleagues, once again, let's redefine that if there are no votes, we will follow the amendments. It's your time, you answer to the voters. Please, colleagues, once again, offer. Once again, the offer to make ad hoc. Vote? Ad hoc offer. Please vote, colleagues. All right, let's vote. Suggestion for ad hoc. [[10:49:01]] For 212 Colleagues, 212 votes. They didn't get the necessary amount. I'm sorry some of the deputies are trying to break this law. Please, Victor Halasyuk, let's do some repairs. The 8th Amendment of Lechchenk, insists? Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, compliance with Ukraine's Supreme Council regulations is not a collapse of the law, but compliance with the law. If some MPs find it difficult to sit in the Supreme Hall, for which the people of Ukraine pay money, pay, and work, and they go and drive, that's their problem! Let them put up a mandate and go away! Do you understand? That's the question. But the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be followed. And especially in order to make it clear that this law, despite all its positives, completely destroys the system of professional association registration. I realize that we don't have any professional relationships in the country yet, because there are a few, a few more that are sitting in the oligarchs in the pocket. But this law destroys independent unions, even the possibility of creating them! Because you're prescribing non-proprietary standards. In particular, this right here, the first of a few rights, requires the exception of the standards you're writing here, the introduction of trade registrations that make their registration more difficult. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u39	Victor Halasyuk, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u40	Dear, dear Mr. Yuri! What I'm trying to say is that when I was working on the second reading of this bill, all the warnings about trade unions were removed. We took into account the agreed amendments that were made by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, who is organizing trade unions. So the entire committee is absolutely quality in terms of trade unions. We've cleared up all the issues. So I'm asking you to support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u41	Thank you. Are you insisting on the amendment? Lechenko, the eighth amendment, insists. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify yourself, colleagues. Lechchenk’s amendment, rejected by the committee. [[10:51:18]] For-92 11th. I didn't get the necessary amount. 11th rejected by the committee. Lechenko insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u42	I would like to point out that the unaccounted for as soon as I heard the reporter say that the trade-related issues were not taken into account. There's three technical licenses, at the end of about 290-300, there's something there. See, the bill is intended to replace the procedure for the implementation of trade unions with their registration. Similar positions were already contained in the preceding editions of the Ukrainian Professional Associations Act, their rights and guarantees of activity, but were recognized by an unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of October 18, 2000. The introduction of such changes would severely limit the constitutional and legal provisions of Ukraine, the European Convention on Human Rights, and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights on the right to freedom of association in trade on the basis of the free choice of their members. With regard to the procedure for the registration of a non-legal professional organization, such a legal practice as the organization of a legal profession is not provided for by the valid Act on Professional Associations and cannot be introduced by the bill in question, since it should be regulated by the area of registration of legal persons rather than by the scope of the creation and implementation of trade unions. So I ask you to delete this standard for trade unions in this article. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u43	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Yuri, thank you again for your amendment. And I'd like to hear from this and all of the subsequent amendments that you've been making, their multiple tens, the position is the same. So what you're sounding is relevant in terms of the first line. Now there's an integral editorial that was submitted by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, who was being submitted by the unions themselves, and it's being implemented here by the committee. So I would just like to ask you to respect the local self-government bodies present on the balcony today. We have an extremely important bill today, without which they cannot get any funding, and we have actually let them go, given us the opportunity to unite, and today we have a blocked possibility of funding. So, if we consider each amendment, our united local communities will not have any copies in their budget. And if we don't accept the budget yet and 1/12 is going to be, and there's this threat, everybody knows about it, then they're going to be nothing at all, it's going to collapse. So I ask for respect for these people and for this question, well, to be more tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u45	Thank you, colleagues. 11th Amendment. Are you insisting? To the vote. Please 11 amendments to Lechchenka are not supported by the committee. Identify yourself. Not supported by the committee. [[10:54:02]] For-72 I didn't get the required number of votes. 12 revisions. None. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 18th. 19th. 20th. 22nd. 28th. 31st. 29th. 30th. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u46	Thank you. First. Dear reporter, I've read the final version of your law by 5 a.m. And so please don't tell stories all over the country about how trades are accounted for. That's not true! Not the things I'm talking about right now. That's the first one. It's different. If factions of coalitions have taken on lists of lovers, drivers, various servants, not working at all on Wednesdays, not working on Fridays, not working at all for half a year, and you can see that it is very difficult for them to sit down and work on repairs right now, that is their problem! Let them form their mandates and go to the polls!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u47	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. All of it. Please have the right to reply to the correction. Please comment on the 30 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Yuri! First of all, I insist on editing the committee. Secondly, I want to say that, as you know, I'm not a coalition representative, I'm a representative of the opposition Radical Party, so I'm asking you not to translate it into this plane, not to waste time. We insist on drafting the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u49	Thank you. The 30th Amendment of Lechchenk, rejected by the committee. [[10:56:00]] For-50 Next. 31st. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 39th. 41st. 42nd. 50th. 51st. 52nd. 53rd. 57th. 52nd. A bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the law provides for extraterritoriality in the implementation of the state registration of all changes relating to legal persons. This means that in any area any notary and any representative of the local self-government will be given these powers. At the same time, this law does not determine where the original registration will be kept. If registration and change of owners, legal entities will follow false documents, then you and I will have searched all the regions for a long time, even though this information has been entered into the register, we will look for this information and these originals, just to verify the signatures. So in carrying out this enormous reform, I ask first to transfer authority, to see how it works, and to do so at least at the site of legal persons, and then to introduce the principle of extraterritoriality. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you for your offer. Well, I would like to point out that the introduction of extraterritoriality is one of the important structural elements of this reform, which will allow it to be as close as possible to the recipient of these services. Moreover, I would like to highlight Bill 1475 of Oksana Prodan, which we have recently voted with you to prevent changes to xerops registers, and this makes it impossible to do so. As for where they will be stored. This is a question of the level of regulation already under the law. So, your honor, I'd like you to support the committee's editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u52	Thank you, colleagues. 52 amendments are not considered by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. Victoria the Bird. [[10:58:25]] For-96 No, it's not, 96. We don't have the required number of votes, let's move on. 53rd, 57th. Come on, please. 64th. Don't insist. 70th. Leprechaun. Yuri Lewchenko, 70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u53	Thank you. This amendment also refers to the need to exclude the draft regulations on professional associations. Once again, I stress that this law should not regulate the issue of professional associations at all. In particular, I would like to respond to a report that there is a report that seems to be being held back. This law goes on to say about 200 amendments, there is a question of financing all of these functions, because in fact, by transferring the mass of functions to this law, funding is not being passed on. And they eventually go down, not plus, they have to get full funding, and we'll get to that if we follow the Rules. I would therefore ask you not to speculate, not to mention that there are some huge financial flows that are passed on to local authorities. And once again, I stress the need to remove from this bill any standards that apply to professional associations. This bill should not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u55	Thank you, Sir Yuri. I would like to point out once again that the amendments by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin have all the issues involved in the trade unions been cleared. Here are the standards that are appropriate to ensure that the approach is harmonized. As far as funding is concerned, I would like to point out that we've been looking at this on the round table and with the Head of the Supreme Council, with the leadership of the government, that the local budgets are getting extra money, thanks to this bill, more than that, without a single penny of their own investment. After all, these very registration entities will partially recalculate these costs to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u56	Please, the 70 amendments rejected by the committee, please vote. [[11:00:57]] Z-62 62 — did not receive the required number of votes. 80th, don't insist. 83rd, don't insist. 89-90. That's one and a half thousand, don't insist. 91st, don't insist. 92th, don't insist. 92nd? Please, Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the principle of extraterritoriality and to respond to the reply of the reporter. Because the bill we passed with you, Oksana Prodan, it will not guarantee what Victor Halasyuk was talking about. Because when we change members of legal entities, the State Registration Act, there is the same provision of the original protocol where notional signatures are not certified. So you can just physically sign it for another person, give it the original, and no one will check it out. And these people right now, who don't even have that kind of experience of making a state registration right now, get these powers. Let's do at least the place where the legal person is found. A legal person will have many opportunities to register with a notary, a government registrar, and a local government official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u58	Dear Mrs. Victoria, the committee has considered your amendment and is still in a position to reject it. Moreover, I would like to point out that we held a number of working meetings, including yesterday with Mr. Groisman, Mr. Saakashvili, with Mr. Petrenko, where these issues were discussed and where these basic principles were reaffirmed. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u59	I'll say we have this principle. Excuse me, may I have a brief comment on Mrs. Bird's observation? Extraterritoriality has been operating in Ukraine since this year in pilot mode. Eight areas of business registration work on this principle. Ms. Victoria, there have been about 7,000 registrations in these eight areas. There is no evidence of abuse or fraud. The main safety net is that the business register is public. That's the first one. The other one. The law provides that a suitable registration case is to be transferred to the company’s registered office within three days. I ask you, this is a very progressive norm that exists in virtually all countries of the European Union. We'll clean it up, we'll create additional barriers to our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u60	Thank you, colleagues. Urges the vote to amend? You insist on voting. 92 amendments, please. Identify yourself, not counted by the committee. [[11:04:30]] Z-87 Not counted, not enough. 97th. None. 99th. 100 amendments, please, Lehchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u61	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I'd like, first of all, to ask our television audiences to just understand and listen to radios that don't see everything that's going on in the room. It's just that when someone makes an amendment right now, the reporter, the first thing he does is look at the minister of justice, see if the minister of justice agrees with him, agrees with the amendments, or disagrees. And the justice minister nods his head, whether you can accept it or not. Is this our parliament, we have a parliamentary republic, or do we have a republic of the Cabinet of Ministers? Yes. So they do everything. You know, about the specific amendment, once again, about professional associations, I see that there is no desire in this room to develop a real professional movement. Why? Because the real trade movement is going to destroy this oligaric system. You still want to keep your pocket oligarchic unions, which in no way protect the rights of the working population. So, society, I'm not going to tell you about the collapse of the bill, the amendments that I'm going to make about the trade issues, I'm not going to insist, I'm not going to insist on them, we're going to go after another amendment. But let everyone see how you feel about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there principles of observation yet not included in the presentation? Is there not? So this is where I see that there's no change. Invite the deputies to the Hall, invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill now on second reading in general, taking into account the things that I've heard under the transcript during the performance. And I would like to emphasize, my dear colleagues, that, of course, such a large and complex law, it can't be absolutely perfect by a hundred percent. So those things that aren't counted, we're going to make changes very quickly. But let's start this reform, let's give this reform a life, because it's a real reform, it's a systematic relaunch, and it's a systemic decentralization. Any amendments that need to be made, we will quickly introduce a separate bill. Dear colleagues, please support this bill now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u64	Thank you, colleagues. Please enter the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and prepare to vote on this law. We still have principle one, 317 amendments, Lechchenka. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. 317. Come on in, people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u65	Thank you. That's exactly what it means to finance when there's a lot of funding here. According to the bill, local self-government authorities are given new powers in the area of registration of legal and physical persons. Taking into account the limited income of local budgets and the cycle of tasks that are faced by local self-government authorities, it is necessary to provide for the financial provision of the specified bodies to carry out their new powers in the area of registration of legal persons and natural persons. That's why I'm proposing. I want the entire administrative assembly to remain in place, completely. Actually, it's about what you can't do. You're transferring huge powers to local governments, but the level of funding you're transferring is not responding to the level of that responsibility, and eventually they're going to be minus, not plus. So if you really want to secure this innovation with funding, I urge you to vote in favour of my amendment so that all the corresponding costs, not just a fraction, remain in the local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri, first of all, if we do that all the costs remain, then this system will not work, because neither notaries nor other registration agencies will be able to provide their services. Each local budget will then have to provide for the corresponding costs to be incurred to ensure the creation of these service centers. And this model, which is proposed in the bill, doesn't need any budget funding. Take a look at the conclusion of the Budget Committee. And the last. I want to say it again in the unions. That we don't make any changes to the Trades Act. Legalization takes place completely free, and, more importantly, if they want to become a legal person, it happens in an order established by the law in force. So, honourable colleagues, I would like you to support this bill in the text that's being resounded, with technical and legal remedies, and with the refinement that I've made under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please the 317th last amendment, which was the principle, Yuri Lewchenko, the author, was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. And invite the deputies to the hall, and we will now proceed to the vote. Please invite the faction leaders. [[11:09:49]] For 132 It was an amendment, dear colleagues. And now there's a proposal, colleagues, to move on to a successful vote on this law. Please give me a minute, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to thank you for a very constructive discussion. I want to remind you that we have removed the issue of accredited entities, and so in the End of Positions, on my initiative, I propose that the end date for the transition period be introduced, this is in paragraph 2 of Part Two of the Final Positions by 30 April 16th, to the maximum, all of the local self-government authorities should take these functions away, and Minust will finally terminate the assignment of these functions. Please take this into account with technical legal amendments when preparing the document for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u69	Please, Your Honor, take your seats. As a result of the second reading, I propose to vote on this draft law in the second reading in the amendment committee, which was announced by the head of the profiling committee, Victor Halasyuk, as well as by the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. And also make technical legal corrections and rule out 211 amendments, (this is the author of Mikola Knieżicki and this was his amendment, he wants to take it off, it's his proposal. Well, basically, we can vote, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, fellow national MPs. Now let's make a signal vote, colleagues, on this law as a whole with what I just announced. Please proceed to the vote. Take your places, colleagues, please support everyone. Please, Your Honor, take your seats, come into the hall. Let's move on to the vote. Ready? Okay, colleagues, I'm going to put a signal vote on this proposal that I made in the version of the amendment committee that Victor Halasyuk announced from the rostrum, plus Petrenko, Minister of Justice. With the exception of Amendment 211, announced by the author of the Princely Mikola, he is withdrawing himself. And with technical law enforcement. Please give the signal vote, we vote. [[11:13:30.]] For 231 It was a signal right now. Thank you. 231 is, 231 is. We're voting in general. By 211, it's not about this law that I just said by Mikola Knieżicki, we're not taking that into account right now, 211 law and this proposal that I made. Please vote in second reading and in general according to my proposal. Vote, vote, please. In general, in second reading and in general. [[11:14:00]] For 247 Yes! 247, the law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, dear colleagues. Ukraine’s Law (Registration No. 2982). Come on, let's work, fellows! We all work, do the work. 2982: Draft Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. But before that, I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u70	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! A great coalition! We sincerely thank you for the tremendously constructive work done on the adoption of the law on decentralization and the transfer of authority to local governments. And above all, after simplifying the services and services provided to Ukrainian citizens on behalf of the State. And once again, I want to point out that this will provide additional resources to both local governments and, first of all, it will allow people not to stand in line, not to drive from the area to the district center, not to pay bribes, but to get the help and permission quickly and quickly that Ukrainian citizen needs. Second, Your Honor, Mr. Head and the distinguished national MPs that I would like to ask you. The government introduced the Ukrainian State Service Act to Parliament. And Parliament was very actively working on this law. We believe that this law should be voted on today. And this law must take effect as soon as possible. What is the idea of this bill? First of all, the government service in Ukraine should be depoliticized. And it has to be effective, it has to become independent, and it has to become intellectual. In that case, if we're going to adopt a bill on public service today, I'm also going to propose to the factions of the coalition and to the Head of Parliament. One of the main problems of corruption in the public service today is the extremely low level of wages. Therefore, those who have knowledge do not go into the public service because they cannot work for three thousand dollars. Or they work for three thousand dollars, which a few more tens of thousands of dollars will be bribed. That's why, when this law is passed in general, I'm going to ask the Members of Parliament to make the following law: that during the transitional period, 2016 and 2017, there is a fund in Ukraine to increase wages for Ukrainian civil servants. The funds of the European Union and other international donors are the sources of this fund’s coming. The foundation is formed exclusively on a transparent basis. And the order in which wages are raised for individual categories of government officials who will receive such higher salaries from this fund will be determined by the government. We are currently negotiating with the European Union in order to have the European Union give us a separate programme to finance wage increases for public officials under the reform programme of the public service. In addition to the reduction in the number of government officials last year, 20 percent and this year, 20 percent of us need to acquire new and effective ones. That is why, honourable Members of Parliament, when voting on the State Service Act, we ask for a corresponding amendment, which will allow me to present in Brussels on December 7 during the Association Council meeting as an opportunity for European partners to help us financially to raise the wages and level of social protection of public officials. And the third thing I'd like to ask you. This is to go back to the Law on Amendments to Privatisation Legislation and Vote It. Give us an opportunity to have honest, transparent and competitive privatization based not on who is closer to the political party, but on the principle that a foreign investor will give more, which foreign investor will be able to bring in new technology and which foreign investor will create more jobs and pay more taxes in Ukraine. Today, the privatization of Odessa’s port and other facilities has been halted for the reason that it is a scheme to steal these factories, not to sell them publicly. We ask that we speed up the adoption of these laws and allow the government to privatize key objects just as the privatization of the Chrysalis was done. Foreign investors await the adoption of these laws. And this will enable, including the government, to increase both corporate governance in public companies and to get rid of the political influence on government management. I ask members of parliament as a package of decentralization, and thank you for having voted in part for it; secondly, the State Service Act with proposals from the government and, thirdly, the privatization legislation. Thanks again for working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u71	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I want you to know that we're under the previous law of 2982. 2983 voted by 247 votes: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 70, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 18, "Party of Rebirth" – 5, "Pradical Party" – 12 votes. "The will of the people" is 13, "The Fatherland" is 11, and "the non-factional" is 21. So the voices went beyond the coalition, and that's very good. Thank you all for your support and vote. 2982: Draft Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. Reported to the head of the Ivanchuk Committee. Before that, dear fellows, one minute wanted your attention. Someone here called, as if replaced by the Supreme Council, to let you know. Is someone afraid of that? I'm not afraid. Is anyone scared? We keep working, right? Let's move on, let's go and work. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, a few words by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee prepared Bill 2982 for second reading. The bill was worked with the Ministry of Justice. And I would like to say that there were 239 amendments to the second reading, most of which were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u73	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u74	I see there's no attention in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, you're taking your seats. As amended, Act 2982. Please, Krulko. Don't insist. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u76	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, and I've made 40 amendments to it, most of which have been taken into account and these have been key amendments, so we've compromised everyone else. And I'm taking down all my amendments, and I'm proposing to vote for the bill. We have a very busy agenda, I suggest we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u77	Thank you. Thank the People's Krulke for his constructive offer. Are there principles of differences by law? Yes. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Announce the amendment and I'll give it to you. 269. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u78	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of my ten amendments, nine were taken into account. But there's one that I think is very important that we've already touched in the past bill that's not included. Amendment 269 refers to the total national registration fee being included in local budgets rather than in parts with an exception and so on. This is precisely the case when there were a number of stories in the hall today about what seems to be the transfer of funding to the venues. To ensure that the funding at the places you're transferring is in line with the responsibility you're transferring at the places, I'm asking you to keep the entire national registration fee in the local budgets, not just a fraction. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u79	269, right? Yuri Volodymyrovich, 269. Please, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u80	Your Honor, the problem is that this law does not regulate the issue, but it does in 2981. And because it goes beyond that. And this is 82. No, it's supposed to be 2981, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u81	Thank you. Please read 269 rejected by the committee, by Yuri Lewchenko. Amendment rejected by Committee 269. Please be sure about the vote. Everyone please take your seats, colleagues. [[11:24:07]] For the 110. The required number of votes was 110. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are exhausted. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head, for a transcript, I would like to read a further agreed final version of the law in part six of the second part: Accredited subjects. Complete article 6 in part. An accredited subject may be a legal person of public law, with no less than three civil registrars in employment relationships, who, prior to the beginning of the exercise of powers in the field of civil registration, entered into a contract of civil liability insurance with a minimum amount of insurance of a thousand minimum wage laid down by the law on 1 January of the calendar year; the second, a contract with another subject of national registration of rights or a notary when an accredited entity authorizes solely in the area of security of acceptance and issuance of documents in the field of State registration of rights. The accreditation of subjects and the monitoring of the conformity of such subjects with the accreditation requirements are carried out by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. I also ask you to give the commission to the committee when preparing the text for signature to take you into account technical and legal remedies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u83	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Please, Minister Petrenko, and we will proceed to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! By fully supporting the committee's position, I would like to add the same technical adjustment to the Final Positions of Part 2 of the Final Transitional Regulations, paragraph 7, that the territorial authorities formed by Minustom perform the functions of registering a document for the recruitment of these functions by local government authorities, but no later than 30 April 2016. So the maximum transitional period, 30 April 2016, is the same as the previous law. And I ask that technical legal remedies be carried out in parallel with the previous law, and they are interlinked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't think there's any objection, it's all logical adjustments that have been made. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Draft Law (Registration No. 2982) on State registration of real estate rights and their loads. In line with the conclusion of the second reading of the proposal, which was presented by the head of the committee under the transcript and technical law, as well as the proposals made by the Minister of Justice of Petrenko, also under the transcript. Please, we're taking our seats. And in the second reading, and in general, taking into account just a general proposal that I have put forward, we will vote. Ready, colleagues? Please take your seats. Please, we're taking our seats. Ready? We vote, colleagues, in second reading and in general, according to the proposals that I made regarding the accounting of amendments and technical legal rights. We are voting as a whole in the second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:27:43]] For 252 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor, for the design. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 65, "Oboblok" – 0, "self-help" – 8, "Radical Party" – 9, "Fathership" – 12, "Party of Rebirth" – 16, "Will of the People" – and 23 people's deputies – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, head of the Budget Committee, Constantine Ischeykin, 2981 draft law, is already a technical law. Please, Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Budget Committee of October 21 discussed the preparation of a draft amending bill for budget code 2981 and prepared a comparative table for second reading. In doing so, the Committee concludes with a detailed explanation for the drafting of the bill. In preparing the bill for the second reading, the committee was required to ensure that the purpose of the bill was achieved, namely, financial security for the provision of administrative services by local self-government authorities through the decentralization of the relevant powers and the inclusion in the local budgets of salaries for the provision of administrative services while optimizing the special fund of the State budget. In general, 22 proposals came to the bill, 20 of which were taken into account by the committee. According to the budget committee’s proposals, the final draft of the bill proposes to amend the budget code. To include in the revenue of the budgets of cities the regional value of rural, rural budgets the administrative assembly for the state registration of immovable property, the fee for shortening the delivery of services and for providing other services in the field of public registration by the executive bodies of the relevant councils. To include in the revenue of the budgets of the cities of regional importance, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the district budgets, the budgets of the unified territorial communities, the fees for shortening the delivery of services and other services in the area of state registration of immovable property and the state registration of legal persons and entrepreneurs provided by the implementing bodies of the relevant councils. Change the ratio of government budget payments for information from government registers: 85 per cent to the general fund, 15 per cent to the special fund, and exclude from the expenditure of the special State budget expenditure on financial security for the activities of the Minsk authorities. Other proposals related to the need for harmonization of legislation. Given that the bills with which this technical project is aligned are considered and agreed upon, we propose, on the basis of the outcome of the Committee's consideration of budgetary matters, to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 2981 to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law taking into account the supported proposals in the final text proposed by the Committee, as set out in the comparative table. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got 2 revisions rejected. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u88	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. 2 Amendments are very simple to avoid any proportions, so that there are no redistributions, if you are transferring appropriate functions to the local authorities, then all funding should go to the local government authorities, not in part the central budget, in part the local government authorities, depending on the type of service, depending on whether it's the Kiev budget or whether it's a budget there, and so on. And that, by the way, because the previous reporter told me that in that bill, in the past, 2982, it's not settled, and there you also write these different proportions of cities. So I suggest, in my amendment, it's very simple that all the fees for these services should be left in the local budgets, without any strange allocations between budgets. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, 2 amendments to a vote that was not counted by the committee. [[11:32:18]] For 134 Thank you. This was the 2nd amendment that wasn't counted by the committee. Let's move on. 16 revisions. Don't insist. All of it. Dear colleagues, the amendments are exhausted. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, and now we're going to vote in the second reading and in general, taking into account the position of the committee, what has been declared by Constantine Ischakin under the transcript. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? We've already made some adjustments. Come in, people's deputies, please. Colleagues, we vote. Ready? Oh, no? Ready to vote? Please, 2981, in second reading and in general, with the proposals that Constantine Ischeykin announced from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the second reading and in general, taking these suggestions into account. Ready? Vote? Second reading in general, the last of the administrative services. There are still many laws. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:33:56]] For 271 271 – Law adopted. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 100, "National Front" – 62, "Opposition Block" – 16, "self-help" – 19, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 10, "Fathership" – 12, "Party of Rebirth" – 14, "Will of the People" – 12 and non-factional – 26 national MPs. Thank you to all Ukrainian national deputies for their support. We're working on it. Dear colleagues, we're still in the middle of a series of laws. So, we're getting ready, we're not leaving, we're going to vote now. Include in the agenda of the day session. Draft Act amending subsection 5 of Chapter XX of the Tax Code on the Promotion of the Market in Used Means of Transport (3251). It's only in the order of the day. There is a committee. Please vote 3251. Integrating into the agenda, voting. 3251 inclusion in the agenda. [[11:35:17]] For 223 Colleagues, I see, I see, I see. All right, all right, now, colleagues. Please focus again, please. 3251, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I see. We vote 3251, inclusion in the agenda of the day session, voting. We vote, we vote, I see. Vote, colleagues, inclusion in the order of the day session, colleagues. [[11:35:54]] For 239. Decision taken. Stop, stop, stop, we still have a lot of laws, stop. 3490 is a very important law of decentralization, and communities need it. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the characteristics of the formation and implementation of the budgets of the united territorial communities. Colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda, these are the budgets of the unified territorial communities, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Next. But it's okay, it's okay, we're working. It is the financing of the united communities. Please be supportive. [[11:36:41]] For 242 Thank you. 242, approved, day-to-day. Dear colleagues, 3197: Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for periods of pretrial investigation). 3197. Vote! Integrating into the agenda of the session, colleagues. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. So we can look at it with you, colleagues. [[11:37:22]] For 172 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 3465: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine" (as regards the irreversibility of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). It's just inclusion in the agenda of the day session, 3465. Please support, we vote, colleagues. Vote, please. [[11:37:58]] For-173 173 votes. He doesn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 3325: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the functioning of the natural gas market. Vote. Entry into the agenda of the day session, 3325. [[11:38:29]] For 197 197 votes. I didn't get the necessary amount. Let's move on. 3388: Draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the Stability (Reserve) Energy Fund). It's an energy issue. Again, integration into the agenda. We'll follow up on the committees, colleagues. Please vote 3388 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:39:18]] For 210 There are no votes needed. 3389: Draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2015 on State Guarantees. 3389 please also support this inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleague. Let's support it. Voting, voting. [[11:39:55]] For 197 The decision is not approved. Draft law, colleagues, on vocational education. It's like a common position, putting it in the order of the day session. We'll keep working on it. Please support the inclusion of 3231 in the agenda of the draft Vocational Education Act. Vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, as if the joint position of the committee. [[11:40:28]] For 210 Nor does he get the required number of votes. Let's move on. Lilia Greenevich, one minute, head of the committee. Listen carefully to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the last time we didn't include this law, there was a warning that it was contrary to the Constitution. Because of what's called "Professional Education" and "Professional Technical Education" in the Constitution. We've already taken that question down. We have come to the conclusion of Minsk, and we have also made a request to the Constitutional Court for this matter. So please vote so that we can work with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u91	Colleagues, let's support the inclusion in the agenda of the Vocational Education Act. And we'll start a discussion, start working on it. What's more, there's already a common position and a committee. She was gone before, and he wasn't involved. This position is now agreed upon. I'm asking everyone to support this. The Act on Vocational Education for inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the beginning of work. Let's support our colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:41:57]] For 242 Thank you. Decision adopted, 242. Thank you for your understanding, fellow national MPs. Next, colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik comments on two laws, 3388, 3389. Please, Victor Mikhailovich. Include in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, before this law, I also have a warning regarding certain standards, and we will correct them in the course of our work. But there's a very important rule here that applies to what guarantee the Ukrainian government has on the loan they're giving us to buy gas from Europe. In addition, a World Bank loan is guaranteed. And that means that the interest on this loan is going to be very low, and we're very comfortable with that loan. So if I understand your warnings, and I have warnings about the rules of this law, I'm going to have to remove some of the rules. I ask my colleagues to support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of both day and day, 3388 and 3389.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we need to listen to this right offer. And let's do 3388 again, you've heard Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's comment, and let's put the day session in order, and let's start looking. 3388, colleagues, ready? Please support 3388. Integrating in the agenda of the Act amending the Regulations of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the Stability (Reserve) Energy Fund). Viktor Mikhailovich commented that they needed a decision of support. 3388, please support, colleagues. 3388. Vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please support everyone. [[11:43:48]] For 209 Colleagues, we're literally missing, we're short on votes, almost all factions are voting except for. 3389, colleagues. 3389 voting for inclusion in the agenda. 3389, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, 3389. This is what Pinzenik just commented on, Viktor Mikhailovich, two interconnected laws. [[11:44:24]] For 213 Did everyone vote? I can see it's just that the MPs have come in. Again, 3388, for inclusion. 3388 commented Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please identify yourself. We're voting on 3388. Entry into the agenda only for sessions. Obviously, there are no votes. [[11:44:58]] For 216 216, we'll be back. And 3389. 3389 is also what they commented on. Vote. 3389 votes. 3389. [[11:45:22]] For 218. Obviously, there are no votes. Let's move on. 3483: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Counterintelligence (for the Departments of Internal and Personal Security of the Ukrainian State Border Service). 3483, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. Integrating the agenda of the day session, colleagues. [[11:45:54]] For 222 Obviously - 222. 3483. Please include in the agenda of the day session on counter-investigative activities. Please, we're voting 3483. Vote. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. We'll discuss it, we'll discuss it. Please be supportive. [[11:46:19]] For 235 Decision taken. It's on. Yes, come on, colleagues. 3351, no committee. 3206: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning guarantees of social protection for certain categories of persons involved in an anti-terror operation. Please, this is an important and social law 3206. Please support everyone, this is the support of persons involved in an anti-terror operation, ATO. I'll put you on the day-to-day. Alexander Trelyakow, one minute. The other one, too. Yeah? Two at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill in the agenda. They're fighters, there's a Phantom battalion that's actually fighting in an ATO zone that's fighting smuggling, there's only 130 of them. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will then place, with your permission, 3206 and 3137 are related draft laws. Is that what I'm saying? Yeah. Two immediately behind the agenda of the day session. Oh, no? Okay. 3206, with the agenda, we vote. 3206, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. What Alexander Tretlyakov said, including the daytime session. [[11:47:49]] For 237 Yes, it's on. And 3137 are included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. Integrating the agenda of the day session, colleagues. [[11:48:11]] For 259. 259, law approved. Dear colleagues, I have, you know, what's the offer? I have the next proposal, and let's work without interruption and, listen, we're going to have to vote now. No, I'll make sure anyone wants to discuss the laws. But not to waste time, half an hour on the way out, half an hour on the way in. Please support this proposal. We'll start the discussion and then they'll come and vote. Please, support me, please. Who needs to get out, he'll get out. Please support this proposal: no interruptions, 12 to 12.30 do not take place. Please be supportive. Ready? Please support me. Then you'll leave, we'll discuss, you'll leave someone alone. Please support me. [[11:49:04]] For 217 I see that there is potential. Colleagues, please support this proposal. We'll have a discussion, you'll come, we'll vote if they do. Please support me, colleagues, without interruptions from 12 to 12.30. Hold on, please. Vote, colleagues, stand by. You'll go if you need me, please. [[11:49:30.]] For 216 Guys, hold on, there's not enough 10 votes. We'll go out and go in more time than we can work. Let's do it again, let's do it again. Suggestion: Without interruption, I ask all my colleagues to support me. Please vote without interruption, just don't do it, let's go through, let's have a discussion. Back up, fellows! Please support the vote. Please support everyone. [[11:50:18]] For 219 Okay, we'll vote on this later. First reading, colleagues, we move on to Law 3413: the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the court’s procedure for pretrial imprisonment). Dear colleagues, this is Nadia Savchenko, a colleague of ours, offering a reduced procedure for considering this bill. This is the first bill passed by Nadia Savchenko. And prepare to vote so that we can work without interruption. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[11:51:09]] For 202 It's a reduced procedure, it's got the required number of votes. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u96	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report on the first bill that was introduced by our colleague Nadia Savchenko, who is being tried at this very moment. A court in Rostov, Donetsk, where witnesses are completely replaced, where there is no justice, where there is no perjury. What's this bill about? It's very simple. It is a matter of amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to ensure that those prisoners who are found in the U.S.S.A. who do not have a court decision and who have a presumption of innocence do not have and remain in custody on the same grounds and conditions as those on which the court orders are based. So Nadia Savchenko is absolutely right to consider and make the right suggestion that those who are in the WHO should be kept in custody for one day in the WHO as two days. Moreover, we know of cases where people have been held in the WHO for years without sentencing, and then there is an acquittal or other excuses, and the person has actually been punished with the presumption of innocence. Therefore, a request to support this bill is made. The committee also made a statement on the bill, and there is a suggestion that it should be voted on as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for "against", two for", two for "against"? Is it? Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Invite MPs. And the committee's report, please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u98	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I'll briefly say that, really, once again, I emphasize that this is the first bill that has been passed by lawyers to us here, to the Supreme Council, which Hope has prepared, and which committee has unanimously supported. It was rightly said that it was designed to restore the rights and legitimate interests of persons condemned to be deprived of their will, whose rights were severely restricted while under guard, and that is the main thing. It is also important to confirm that democratic change is taking place in Ukraine and, as a result, to reduce complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to say that during the discussion on the introduction to article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine of this amendment, all members of the Committee unanimously supported the hope proposal. And I would like today, by negotiating with the committee's leadership, with the committee members, to ask, Sir Head, the Supreme Council as an exception to vote, to support this law in the first reading on the basis, and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u99	Thank you. Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In this case, I would like to speak as a practice of this question. I want to assure you, on behalf of everyone who's ever been to the S.I.A., not necessarily being detained, but just being there, the conditions for keeping people in the S.I.A. is much more difficult, I would say, scarier than any place in any area. Getting rid of the possibilities of socialization, that is to say, encounters with your family, getting rid of any freedom of movement in a locked space, the terrible medieval living conditions that we can't quickly change, should be compensated by counting one day to two, as it was before, in the early 1990s. So this is an absolutely correct proposal that will stimulate the investigation to do its work faster, and people in middle-aged conditions should be counted in two days, two years, and it is desirable for them to do this pretrial investigation as soon as possible. So I would like to support this bill, which clearly humanizes the situation in the Ukrainian CISA.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u101	Please, shall we vote? A performance? Please, Leonid Yemen from the People's Front and let's move on to the vote. Invite MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, it is a great honor for me to be coauthor of the law, the real author of which is Nadia Savchenko. This is an extremely important problem not only for those people who have just been talked about by Yuri Lucenko, but also, believe my experience as the first deputy of the Judicial Committee, we have people who are at the S.I.S.O. for 5 to 6 years without even having their case brought to trial. Clearly, then, this law motivates the law enforcement system to act effectively, realizing that every day that a person conducts without considering his case in court will be counted twice. It will be the personal responsibility of the militias, prosecutors, investigators, judges to ensure that criminals are given a real term and that innocent people do not spend any extra day in places where they are deprived of their will. That's why the People's Front faction unanimously supports this bill, and we urge all MPs to vote in favour of the law passed by Nadia Savchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the law of Hope Savechenko. Oh, Oleg Lazko, please. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the bill. This is a real bill aimed at humanizing the detention of persons under pretrial investigation in inhumane, horrendous conditions of investigative isolation. Many prosecutors and judges abuse people for years without admitting their guilt without a court verdict. And in fact, according to the Constitution, a person who is not a criminal whose guilt has not been proven by the judgment of a court for years, five to seven years, I am aware of such cases in the Lviv National Institute, in the Kyiv National Institute, which has been illegally held for years. Thus, the introduction of a standard: The day of being in the WHO is equal to two days of being held in custody will force both prosecutors and judges not to abuse their rights, otherwise they will sit in the position of the prisoners they illegally retain. Therefore, our political power will vote in favour of this bill. Today, the mass of people sitting in detention cells are sitting on false charges, especially yesterday being released from house arrest by Bogdan Titsky, who, after months of false accusations of imprisonment and never even apologized to him. Unfortunately, there's a huge number of patriots in prison today, and not just patriots, but people who haven't been able to redeem themselves, who don't have a hairy arm and no mud, they don't have money, they've been trapped, they've been tied up, and they've been sitting there for years, and they've all forgotten about them. Therefore, our task is to dismantle these investigative isolations, places of detention, and not only in the SIZO, but also in the temporary detention facility, and in other institutions. All innocent people who sit there must be released because they have not been able to redeem themselves because they have crossed the path of a prosecutor or a judge. That's why we're backing this bill, letting all people go free, we're doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u105	Please, one minute, Victor Chumak, and let's proceed to the vote, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, who, at least once in the Ukrainian CISA, very clearly understands that these institutions do not meet just any European or global standards, they do not, in principle, meet the standards of human existence. Those terrible conditions that people are in right now are unacceptable to a normal human being. I want to tell you that, in addition, this bill will be designed to ensure that neither prosecutors nor law enforcement officers abuse their right to conduct a long-standing investigation. I urge you all to vote in favour of this project, which is really aimed at humanizing the punishment and humanizing the activities of law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u107	Thank you. One minute, Leo Podlisecki. One minute, Leo Podlisecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, we are absolutely prepared to support these arguments, which are spoken for. But there is one warning: Will there not be abuse in those who are absolutely seated and in previous places of disqualification on lost, pre-lossed matters? And it's just the lawyers or the defense party, and the courts can abuse and delay the stay at the S.E.S.O.S. so that the term of punishment will be reduced in the future. But he'll be sitting at the station, and then he'll be. The killers will spend less time in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u109	Colleagues, there's the committee's conclusion on the basis. Are we voting on a basis? And the whole thing? On the basis and in general. On the basis and in general with technical law. Prepare to vote. Andrew Illenko, one minute. Prepare to vote. Please come in, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u110	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, of course, there is a need to do everything possible to humanize conditions and everything that goes on around investigative isolation. Because it is a real horror and lawlessness when innocent people have sat for years. And especially when people are sitting on political charges, like today's patriots, like today's volunteers, like "liberators" who are being thrown away. I'd like to say one important thing. As mentioned earlier, patriots who are now in detention facilities have been mentioned. Today, in detention cells, a huge number of our heroes of the eastern front, the heroes of the war, who sit very often on perfectly premeditated charges. They are told that something was wrong with them in the ATO area. These are our heroes who protected us. And that's why I'm making this proposal to all the deputies right now so that we can draft a bill on complete amnesty for all our ATO heroes so that none of them can sit. Because today there are huge problems. Dozens and hundreds of our patriots are sitting behind bars right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u111	Colleagues, get ready. 3413, bill of colleague Nadia Savichenko. A proposal on the basis and generally with the technical legal rights of the committee. Vote. With the technical legal rights of the committee as a basis and as a whole. Ready? Vote. [[12:03:54]] For 255 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, let's welcome the Minister of Education, Sergey Kwitt, who is now 50 years old. Welcome, Sergey Mironovich! Good Health for You! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'm about to announce a 30-minute recess. And I'd like to ask the supervisors. What do you vote on? What do you vote on? We've already voted five times, colleagues, that's all. Heads of factions and groups, please come to my third floor, 15 minutes, for a meeting. Please, faction and group leaders, please come to the third floor meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u112	The time foreseen by the Break-Up Rules has been completed. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to call the deputies to work. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please come in. This is the safest place in the Council. Please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the hall again. We're not enough to work with. Where are the constables entering the hall? I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, we continue our work. We have a few questions regarding the decision - making process. I think we'll get to them today. And now I'm going to start looking at the questions in the first reading. Please take your seats, colleagues. Dear colleagues, a bill (registration number 2524a) has been tabled for your consideration, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Who Have Been Injured. Oh, there's Irina Heratchenko, great. Please, 2009a: draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act. The author of the law and the reporter is National Deputy Irina Heratchenko. The reporter is Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, it's a small law, we can start with a reduced procedure. But as long as the MPs take their seats, I think it would be important under a reduced procedure. Is there any understanding that we can now vote on this bill for a reduced procedure, 2009a? Can you hold it? Will you support me, colleagues, and we'll start the process? Dear colleagues, please make a proposal for a reduced review of 2009. Please, colleagues, 2009a, with a reduced procedure, please support everyone, we will begin the discussion process. Please support me. We're going to start the 2009a discussion process. The reporter is Irina Heratchenko. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote. [[12:51:39]] For 133 Almost. Take your seats, colleagues. Well, let's start the vote. We'll just start the discussion. Once again, colleagues, with regard to the 2009 review of the reduced procedure, please support. Let's start the discussion process while the deputies take their seats in the 2009 Hall, please. [[12:52:44]] For-137 That's better. Come in, people's deputies, please come into the hall. Colleagues, proposal: To begin consideration of Bill 2009a under reduced procedure. Please take your seats and vote in favour of this proposal. Ready? Short-term review of Law 2009a, please all support, vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Short-term review procedure. Please. [[12:53:44]] For 139 Well, almost, almost. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, please. Short-term review procedure. 2009a, please support. 2009a, please support. Short-term procedure. Please. [[12:54:54]] For-153 Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u114	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to remind you that improving our legislation in the field of ecology is one of the priority articles of our commitments in the context of the implementation of the Association Agreement. In fact, the drafters of this bill, a large enough author's colleague, aim to establish legal and organisational principles for environmental impact assessment, which will ensure Ukraine's compliance with international obligations not only in the implementation of the Association Agreement, but also the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context and the Convention on Access to Information, will allow public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. This bill provides for a procedure and an environmental impact assessment, a mandatory regulation whereby an impact assessment will be carried out when a planned activity is undertaken, a list of those objects that must be subject to an environmental assessment procedure, a list of the objects for which an environmental assessment procedure is applied, free public access to all information relating to planned activity and public consultation, a single environmental impact assessment register, an environmental impact analysis of the environment and human health to begin with and take account of this analysis when a final decision is taken. It should be noted that it is extremely important to discuss this bill in our Parliament before the global climate conference, which will take place in Paris next week. And in fact, it is very important for the Ukrainian delegation here to show the same steps that we are taking with regard to improving Ukrainian legislation in such an important area as ecology, which unfortunately is not enough for us to do, including in the sessional room, despite the great efforts of my colleague's professional committee. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u115	Please, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u116	And so, yes, it is very important that we consider this bill on our first reading today. Also, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that we have had a serious discussion with the drafters of the bill, with representatives of the middle and small business in Ukraine, with representatives of the public who have a number of comments about it, which can be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u117	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we have a sufficiently case-by-case bill and I'm here because here all of our own, and who has come after the replacement, in such an emotional state ready to work, that we have a serious conflict here. Now, as head of the environmental committee, I'm going to be adamant to support this bill, because it's an ideologically European bill, it's our European commitment, and it's the right procedure for us to determine before each construction, the use of natural fossils and so on, the environmental impact assessment procedure. We have to have a register, we have to have public access. For them to understand that if a factory is built, it means that meat or chemistry, or other problems, will be impossible after construction. Not like we do today, we build a factory, and then it turns out that there are no cleaning facilities there, and nothing is done. But I have to say, as a national MP, I'm a little concerned about the general logic that we work with the government. I mean, how did the history of this bill happen? The deadline for preparing this bill for our European obligations has expired. So we had to report to the European structures. Grant's money's already been picked. And we had to register it quickly. We showed good faith, of course. And thank Irina Heratchenko and the other deputies for registering him. But as a committee, just so you know, we'll be cleaning it up for a month. Because the law does not understand what authority and who is doing this procedure. The law does not have a clear procedure for carrying out impact assessments. Ununderstood status of a single register of impact assessments and so forth. So I propose a compromise: pro-European vote in the first reading and then actively work to make it a pro-Ukrainian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u119	Mr. Mikolo, your proposal is based, right? Your suggestion: the bill is based, right? Please, Your Honor, let's sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Please hold the recording. "Block of Petra Prashenka", Gerasimov Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u120	Please give the word to the national deputy of Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u121	Please, Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I understand that there are different moods in the Hall regarding this bill. There are many myths around him. But we also need to understand that, in addition to being part of our international obligations, we need to meet both the European Energy Community and the Committee of the Orgut Convention, where we will soon be fined. This bill, it's gone through pretty much all the necessary procedures from its development and agreement in the Mind of Nature. For about six months, he was being worked on by the best international and Ukrainian experts. He had a discussion on the Web site of the Mind, and he got the necessary comments. I was personally on the round tables where these remarks were made. It is quite quality and should be developed into second reading, taking into account the comments of the national deputies. But it should also be voted on in the first reading. If we don't do it now and fail it, I don't know what our Ukrainian delegation will look like in Paris, how we will tell our European partners that we don't want to accept their procedures and standards. So I would very much like to ask the members of the people in the first reading to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u123	Thank you. Condratuk Olena Constantine's Handing over the word. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. First of all, we ask you to support this bill in the first reading. We're really coming to the second one. When I was asked by the developers to support this draft of the bill. My first question was, what is the position of business on this bill? I was told that before commenting on the bill, business representatives were involved, namely: Zaporoztal, Odessa Sea Trade Port, Naftogaz, Beverigiz Ukraine, European Business Association and others. But really, when we began to communicate more with business, there is a point. For example, last Sunday we had talks with representatives of renewable energy. There's a note. But principles that can be resolved in a second reading. Indeed, the draft bill cannot be passed into the Supreme Council Hall for several years. And this is our commitment. This is not our challenge, it is a country’s commitment. Colleagues, we need to understand that ecology, energy efficiency, these are the areas where state regulation is. We tried to set up deregulation methods as much as possible, so we canceled several procedures and integrated them into others, into other permits. And I want to point out that this bill was passed by the Committee of Fuel Energy. It's the most difficult committee. But members of this committee have co-sponsored this bill to show that ecology and energy. This is the constant development of energy that's the priority right now in the field. Therefore, by supporting the head of the Committee on Ecology, I ask you to support the first reading, and to the second, we will polish it, and it will take a long time to become perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Bond Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u126	Thank you. I give you the word of Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u127	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, do you know when we are talking about this problem, the environmental problem, we want to ask a lot of questions, do we even talk about it or do we solve it? Because when you read the draft of this law, there is a free or unwitting situation that we may be able to talk more about this law. For many years, unfortunately, there has been a bad practice that we have so far. Metalworks and those who pollute the environment know the more you pollute the environment, the more you pay. The more you pay, the more money goes to the central authority, that is to say the central fund, because almost all this money is taken from places. If we're talking about wanting to solve this problem and putting money in place, create an integrated emission reduction programme, and we don't need anything. Let's create an integrated government programme. What is here under this law when we speak? Estimates of discards. I'm sorry, she is. When you get an emission permit, when you agree on the work of any enterprise in the Ministry of Environment, you first agree on an emission assessment. Second. List of objects. It is in every unit, we know them well, and the Ministry of Environment has such facilities. It's a single register. He is. So, in a big way, the law that's being proposed there is, you know, here, let's gather around, let's talk about this topic. But I think we've talked about this over the years. There is indeed an environmental problem, it exists, there are cities with a critical emission situation. And we need to think more than ever, to develop targeted, integrated emission reduction programmes for technology improvements, modernization, equipment upgrades and other, other things. Not just creating some, let's say that, associations and circles of interest. In fact, to date, this is really a circle of interest. And I would very much like to adopt such a law. So I suggest a second reading again, let's sit down with specialists to work out, not what someone would like to take for the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u128	Thank you. Two more performances: Sold to Oksana and Krivenko. First off, please sell for one minute. And then there's Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support this bill and explain why. The first, irrelevant argument is that even an active government has been ashamed to introduce this bill. And to talk about it being developed by the Ministry of Ecology when it wasn't introduced by the Ministry of Ecology, and it didn't bring in government, a little bit illogical. But now essentially the bill. If we adopt the law in the way it is, we will have production entirely in Ukraine, and we will have only import and trade. What is suggested is that I call attention to all the national MPs. Three new documents are introduced: a report for which everyone should pay and buy it in a new organization, the second is a decision of the appropriate body and the third is a final decision based on previous decisions. There are completely opaque public consultation procedures, procedures that will not be discussed with the public, but that will serve any local or central authority in the environmental sphere. Moreover, there is no responsibility of the authorities for failure or failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u130	Please. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u131	It's like there's two categories of activity, the kind of production that's under control. But in fact, everything that does not apply to trade falls under the control of this law. All who are in Ukraine will now carry money, not into one organ, but into a new one. And another question about decentralization. All environmental expertise is given exclusively to the central authority and its territorial units. Local authorities will look at the environment from the outside. I'm asking you not to support the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u133	Please give the voice to Rybaku. There are new circumstances, and we need a member of the committee to comment. Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u134	Fisherman, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u135	Ivan Rybak, 202 constituency. Dear colleagues, the point is that this bill essentially eliminates the institution of environmental expertise. This bill will apply exclusively to new objects that will be built, exclusively new ones, and I stress this, and that is not the case at all. Old business, it won't touch. We're talking about documents at the construction stage, from the beginning, from scratch. It is just new objects, and it will not touch the business that is currently operating in Ukraine. We can't talk about the fact that we're just going to buy imported goods, because, on the contrary, everything that works today, it's going to work, and everything that's going to be built, it's going to work and it's going to be operational, and it's going to be allowed to build under this law. So so that we don't crash this law, because at this point in the room there's probably not that many votes, let's try that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u136	Please finish, 10 seconds. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u137	Let us try to vote in the first reading on the basis of a signal vote. If we don't have enough votes, let's put the second one on again. Let's send the readings first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. We completed the discussion of the bill. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Mr. Halasyuk, please come into the hall, not leave the hall. I'm asking MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. According to the Rules, I will put in sequence the suggestions that were made in the discussion. So first I'm going to lay the groundwork, if this proposal doesn't get the right number of votes, then I'm going to re-read it, put it back on the committee for the first time again. The first one will be a signal, of course, let the deputies come in and take their seats. Ready to vote, MPs? So I'm putting up a vote. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009a) is based on: This is a committee proposal. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. I'm asking you to turn on the voting system. [[13:11:14]] For a hundred and Thank you. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Now I'm putting a motion for a vote to return to the committee for a re-read. Attention, signal vote, draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009)a return to the committee for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Signal. [[13:11:52]] For-200 All right, everybody, let's get some more lines before the MPs get here. Convict, repeat one minute, turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, vote. Please come into the hall, to your workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to say that the 7 numbers of the President of Ukraine will be in Paris, where all the presidents of all the countries of the world will be at the climate conference. And we're just not going to have anywhere to look from shame, if we're told that we've failed such a bill, it really needs work. But first of all, this is where we have to set up, and maybe in the first reading, we have to make it clear that it's only going to be for new businesses. Because now there are terrible violations in the system that there is. In my native Dniprodijnski, one of the three most dirty cities, a Norwegian animal farm continues to be built, without documents, documents are made as a hindrance, with terrible environmental disturbances. And everything. And the police don't work, the D.A. doesn't work. They have a left-hand document, which by old standards is all made up. We need a new law. So there is a proposal in the first reading to vote on it. Now consider it discussed and vote after 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've come to a common position as a result of the discussion that if there are no votes on the ground, we're bringing him back to the committee for re-reading. That's what we're all talking about. I don't understand why Pinzenik, Sold, why don't you vote for this proposal that we're on? We're going back to the committee, and the committee will be able to develop it. Please, Irina Heratchenko, a lineup, one minute. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize to all of us that our work should be based, first of all, on ours. on the implementation of the Association Agreement and our coalition agreement, which is also built on the implementation of the Association Agreement. And this part of the implementation of this agreement is also part of the change in our legislation on environmental issues. Indeed, this bill needs further elaboration. So it is vital that we do not take it down today, but that we send it back for work, for the first time again. And we're going to join this business in the first place, because, in fact, during this discussion, public organizations were involved, a ministry that, likewise, did not always demonstrate competence. But there was no business involved. This is a mistake. But to collapse the bill, especially on the eve of the Paris climate conference, where our delegation has to show the same argument that we are working on this topic, is wrong. I'm calling on everyone to support the compromise proposal that we're sending him to work. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so we made a compromise position. I ask her to support those with whom we have agreed. So, dear colleagues, I would like to put once again, first to the signal vote, to return to the committee for further elaboration the draft Law on Environmental Impact Assessment 2009a, a signal vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to work in the hall, not discuss it. Vote, signal vote. [[13:15:44]] For 212 Now, I'm just going to ask, first of all, fellow national MPs, I'm going to ask you to take your jobs. It's not a right, it's a duty of a deputy to work in a session room. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. It's Pinzenik, one minute. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u143	Dear national deputies, what was most disturbing about the people who had read this law? This is a risk, a high risk of creating an additional regulatory monster, when almost no activity can be accomplished without having received an evaluation of what is called a planned activity. Since this affects regulatory problems, I have the next suggestion to return to the first, but to assign not only the Committee on Environmental Affairs, but the Committee on Regulatory Policy, because this is a regulatory act that affects business regulation, i.e. those responsible have two committees to be: the Committee of Tomenka and the Committee of Galasuk. And I ask in this version, with the commission of two committees to prepare, to support the re-reading of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are they all in place? Is everyone ready to vote faction? You're ready, aren't you? So once again, I'm putting a motion to vote: to return to the committee for a second reading with the participation of two committees -- ecology and regulatory policy -- to draft the Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009a). Signal vote, please support the proposal, we vote. [[13:17:44]] For 226 Dear colleagues, please be prepared to pay attention. I'm putting a motion to vote: to return the committee to read again the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act (2009a) and to take a decision with two committees: the Committee on Environment and the Committee on Regulatory Policy. So I'm betting on the 2009a vote. Please vote. Please be careful, we are responsibly voting. Vote! [[13:18:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you for the discussion. Thanks to the project’s authors and all those who participated in the discussion. In order of the day, we go to the next draft of Law 2524a: "On the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster." There is an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:19:21]] For 165 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee, Tomenko Mikol Volodymyrovich, to report. Four minutes and a report, and a report. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, allow me to present a bill developed in friendly cooperation between our Committee on Environmental Policy and the Committee on Social Policy, which is headed by Ludmila Denisov. We're not actually inventing anything by the two committees, we're correcting, I hope, the technical error of the government, not the worldview, but the technical one that came out of the implementation of a series of Chernobyl programs. So it happened that the total budget programme "Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster" for 2015 included an amount to be paid both to those workers and to those living in the alien zone, but technically, the number of these funds, and this is about 4,000,323 workers who receive payments of about 1 thousand,820 dollars, was not set up. Thus, the Ministry of Social Policy should thank them, although the truth is late, asked the MPs to respond adequately and quickly and to make changes to the law that will unlock the financing of those working in the alienation zone today. It's about, once again, the money that's not just in the budget, but it's in the specific budget programme. Two words, I'll tell you what's going on in the alien zone today. We're very convincing, and here we've had protests that I think are completely civilized with the unions. We've explained to them that it's not that the government or parliament is set up against those working in the alien zone, it's a mistake, we're going to fix it, and you're the people who are actually one of the most professional energy workers who have been tested in recent years, at least a little compensation for the fact that they're implementing projects of extreme importance. We have just been with Ambassador Jan Tombinsky of the Eurocommission in the alien zone and Chernobyl, where our colleagues in the Euro-Commission have a very high level of expertise among our engineers, workers and people who complete the Hide-2. In November 2017, we will definitely not be ashamed, we will be proud that we have implemented this super-complex project. In addition, there are a number of other very difficult projects, starting with the Vector project, where we're going to process all the harmful substances in Ukraine, starting with medical equipment and more. There's another set of projects that we're doing with the French, the Americans, with other European countries. So we have to guarantee the normal social status of those people who today represent Ukraine, working in the Chernobyl nuclear and alienation zones. We consulted the Ministry of Social Policy both in our committee and in the Committee of Social Policy, because this is actually a precise position, we decided to ask the Supreme Council to vote both in the first and in the whole, because it's just about restoring a specific budget programme, and there's no risk of disagreement on the right side. Instead, I'm going to say that it's very important. I hope that we unlock this program, and people will get the money this year so that this error doesn't happen again next financial year. So I strongly ask the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, to make this program of social support for those working in the alien zone clear for the next year. So we support people who are working in the alienation zone today, and we correct the government's error with regard to this social situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, isn't there? There's a need. Please two for, two for against. Please hold the recording. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u147	I give the floor to the People's Deputy Victor Vuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, Oleg Láska’s Radical Party considers the bill as a first step towards restoring payments to black people who were unjustly and unjustly cancelled last year. This is one of the demands of the Chernobyl people who stood with us for a month under the Cabinet of Ministers' walls on the "tariff field." This bill, as has already been noted, provides for the renewal of the right of citizens working in an alien zone to receive corresponding payments. These payments are aimed at compensating the health of workers with negative effects of ionizing radiation, as well as the involvement of qualified professionals in the work of eliminating the consequences of the accident at Chernobyl’s AES. If we don't adopt this law, the employees will be deprived of part of the salary for work at the epicenter of the Chernobyl disaster. Given that the vast majority of the workers working in the alienation zone are low-wage workers, this will result in a 30-40 percent reduction in the average wage in the alienation zone. This is primarily the case with low - paying workers. Honourable colleagues, in the background of loud slogans about the preparations for the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, may give rise to additional social tensions that endanger social protests in the alien zone. And it can also pose a threat to the collapse of the implementation of the relevant international projects that are being implemented in the Chernobyl area. The faction of the Radical Party therefore insists on the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u150	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! It's a perfectly correct and normal bill. And that is normal when a nation returns to those who in their time have fulfilled their civic and service responsibilities and are now performing, and they are now carrying out this service duty by staying and working in the Chernobyl disaster zone. It's a perfectly normal bill. I'm asking all my colleagues to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u151	Thank you. Natalia Royal, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u152	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! The Opposition Block, of course, will support this bill in order to protect and help people who continue their dangerous work in the alien zone for a little while today. But we also want to remind you that since the beginning of this year you have cancelled a number of compensations for our black people. And next year is the anniversary of the Chernobyl accident. In just a few days, on 14 December, all the liquidators of our country celebrate their day, the Day of the Liquidator. And I'm asking you very much, let's have a social justice day together in the Supreme Council. We will consider comprehensively the draft legislation on Chernobyl, which is supported by both a professional committee and other committees of Parliament. And waiting for our time to find an opportunity to support them. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. And I also want to ask you. Today, for the first time in many years in the Supreme Council, there is an exhibition of robots with limited capacity. And representatives of all areas of Ukraine have come to Parliament, to you people's deputies to see how talented these are, how great people are, what wonderful jobs they can do today, and how much they need your help and your support today. Dear colleagues, find one minute of your time, climb to the third floor, from all over the country today, representatives of people with limited opportunity and masters themselves, Ukrainian folk masters have come today to show you how beautiful our country is, and what wonderful work these people are doing. Thank you very much. And I very much hope that you will find this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and there will be a vote. Please take your jobs. And as the MPs come in, one minute for Kishkar's performance. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I was actually the next day after you arrived with Mr. Tombinsky at CHEC, and I want to correct you a little bit, because this supplement does not apply to those people who do the work of concealment and the construction of the vector, because these work is carried out by international organizations, international companies. So that's not true. When it comes to compensation for health damage. It has no bearing on the actual health problem, since it is now being paid to all who are in the CHEESE zone — whether you have suffered or have been harmed by your health or not, Viktor Ivanovich, no matter. And now the person who goes inside four reactors, and the secretary of state who goes in there for three days, gets that supplement. And I demand that these supplements be removed, and the salary has been increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we had a discussion, we had a discussion. I ask you to prepare for the vote now. The committee's proposal to vote on the basis as a whole, but I'm going to put it on the ground first, and then on the whole. And let's do the first vote. I'm asking you to take your jobs, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (2524a) as a basis. Signal vote. Please take part in the vote. Vote. [[13:31:22]] For 218. Thank you. I ask you to carefully enter the hall, take up jobs, and we will now vote again. Tomenkov 1 minute for the performance. Deputies, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I support everyone in the fight for fair wages, they should be, as colleagues have demanded, 2,000 euros. But in the alienation zone, where I've been five times in the last year, there are militias, and they're standing there at night, and the guards are working there too, and our builders are working. And those who work on international programs are the minority of people who work on international programs, of course, they get more, of course. And if it's budgeted, it's going to have to be, I know, the last people to take back 1,800 dollars from those people who are spending the day and the night there in Chernobyl. For justice, therefore, it is necessary to fight when the wages increase several times, not when they decrease. So once again, I urge you, and this is the position of all the people working in the alienation zone, and in Chernobyl, and all the unions that we've calmed down a week ago, so that they can lead themselves peacefully and tolerantly to the Supreme Council, vote in the first and in general, and pay for what we voted in the budget, but technically we can't pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u157	Thank you. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded. I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. And I'm re-voting 2524a as a base. Please vote, signal vote. Please vote. [[13:33:19]] For 232 Thank you. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (number 2524a) as a basis. Please vote on the basis. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:33:49]] For 241 Decision taken. There's a committee proposal in general. No objections? Then I put a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens (number 2524a) as a whole at the suggestion of the Committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please, in general. [[13:34:21]] For 225 We didn't make it. Dear colleagues, please be careful. Please return to your consideration of the matter. Please come back, please vote in favour, vote in favour. Please vote for the return. [[13:34:56]] For 219
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u158	There are no votes in favour as a whole, as far as I understand. Colleagues, there's a proposal, attention, there's a proposal to go back to this issue, to the proposal to generally adopt this bill. Please make up your mind and support me. Return. Vote. [[13:35:40]] For 224 Colleagues, there's a proposal in preparation for the second reading by a reduced procedure, maybe we'll support it, and then there'll be a normal position for the preparation of the second reading. Short procedure for second reading. It is, isn't it? All right, at the special request of the deputies, for your return. Come on. Please, let's go back to this law again and let's take a look. To return to 2524a, we vote. [[13:36:38]] For 221 Colleagues, for a reduced procedure of second reading, let's support that. Let's support this, please, a simplified second-reading procedure, let's support that. Please support this proposal. Let's just not lose the law, but we see that it's not enough. Short-term procedure for second reading, voting. Short, for second reading, please prepare, submit, and be voted on. It has already been voted on as a basis. [[13:37:17]] For 228 See, 228, I was right. Thank you, we're ready. Dear colleagues, the draft law on the introduction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for optimizing the legislative process), introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies, including I was also the initiator, the issue of providing electronic materials by the second reading. But if one of the deputies wants everything to stay the way it is, he'll write it down in writing that he wants to work with paper carriers, and there's no change. There is a proposal to consider it in a reduced procedure of 3207, and the committee head Paul Pinzenik, please, from the committee report. Please. [[13:38:10]] For 186 Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u159	Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The committee discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Rules (for optimizing the legislative process) tabled by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Groissman, Lucenk, Burbak, Skinmakin (register 3207). The project proposes to amend articles 7, 21, 24, 25, 91, 98 of the Rules and to supplement it with a new article 25 with a label 1 on technology and the procedure for dealing with documents. The committee noted that the innovations proposed in the draft law deserved attention and support, as they allowed to optimize the work of the Supreme Council's apparatus, to ensure the operationality of informing the people's deputies, at the same time to significantly reduce the number of printed materials and the cost of their acquisition, as well as the repair and maintenance of equipment and inventory for the printing and printing of bills to the people's deputies. During the consideration of the bill, the Committee essentially made some warnings about the time of posting on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the provision of the draft agenda for the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than the day before it was considered or, perhaps, more appropriate, not later than 24 hours before it was considered. At the same time, the committee noted that the job of a national deputy is not equipped with Internet access, and this requires some further improvements in the technical part of the Supreme Council’s work. At the same time, the Committee adopted the conclusion and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, adopt the bill in the first reading, taking into account the Committee’s observations, and we commit ourselves to the second reading to work on it. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, we've got two "for," two "against". Please sign up. But I think there's 24 hours a day, that's no problem, it'll be 254 hours. The main question is that even the system that is there will be translated into electronic documentation. Please, People's Deputy Wolf. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u161	Noisyuk, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u162	Ah, Victor Halasyuk, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u163	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, the Radical Party faction will certainly support this bill so that we don't spend too much money on having a better ecology so that we can work faster. But what I want to stress is, is that what's important today when we talk about the work of the Supreme Council? The Radical Party faction, in principle, we insist that we amend the Rules by making Friday a full - time working day in Parliament. Look, how long can you do this? There are no deputies on Friday, no consideration. That we don't have laws that we have to adopt in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of entrepreneurs, in the interests of manufacturers? We have to do this. Moreover, honourable colleagues, let us make changes to the Rules so that we do not have an hour of imitation by the government on Friday, but that these are three hours of professional discussion with key ministers, with a mandatory presence of the government here in full stock. How long are we going to work like this on Friday? If anyone worked like that in a factory, they'd have been freed under three hells long ago. Dear colleagues, let us support this bill as a basis, but let us introduce these two very important amendments: this is a full - time job for deputies on Friday and a three - hour job with the government on each of the issues of the Ministry of Education. What kind of situation is it that ministers, deputy ministers don't go to profile committees? Are you saying it's normal in Parliamentary, in the parliamentary-presidential republic? It's not normal. And then they're surprised they don't support reform laws. This is how we need to prepare laws in a good way -- once, go to committees and work with MPs -- two times, and then we're going to have to adopt laws in a way that is more than 90 percent in Europe. Not to make a contribution, not to communicate with the deputies at all until the last one, but to make a budget night here every year!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u165	Respectful colleagues certainly need to be supported by the amendments to the Rules. We need to move away from this primordial system that we have in the Supreme Council, from these tons of paper and this inefficient actual spending of budgetary resources. At the same time, the transition to fully electronic means of documenting in the Supreme Council should be ensured by a sufficient level of transparency, which we insist on making appropriate changes. And we want to read them according to the transcript. In Article 7, delete the paragraph, which contains "the essential electronic texts of the relevant acts". Article 24 should be left in its original form. In article 25, the term “not later than 20 hours of the day” is replaced by “not later than 18 hours of the day”. In the first part, the word "day" is replaced by the term "strings defined by this term."'--keep going along the lines. In part three of article 91: "at the beginning of the working day, the day after which such documents are placed in the database of electronic computer network bills and the Supreme Council website" replace by "in the time limit defined by this rule." In article 98, paragraph 3, after the phrase "in the terms defined by this rule" put a dot. And if these changes are taken into account, which I have now read under the transcript, these changes to the Rules will be acceptable and sufficient transparency of the work of the Supreme Council will be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u166	Thank you. I think we're looking at it as a basis, and you can improve this bill for the second reading. In fact, you based your speech on all the working standards, so we can change it to a second reading. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u167	Friends, I think we should start work on not optimizing, I would say, improving the efficiency and responsibility of the legislative process. And what we have to do with the Rules is a little bit of what we have to do. So I'm going to talk about strategic things right now. It's very clear to me that when we talk about constitutional change, we have to think not only about the strategic nature of constitutional change, but also about the procedural nature, the institutional character, because democracy is institutions and procedures. What I mean. Count the amount of time on the Supreme Council that we do. Now we have the decommunization law. Now we're going to be thousands of villages changing the name from Soviet to Ukrainian. Is this the work of the Supreme Council? Well, the name of the village can be changed by the district council without us. Today, we will be assigning elections to the village councils, where, God forbid, there has been a disaster, someone has died, and so on. Is this the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? This should be done by the CLTC at the request of the local self - government authority. My idea is that we have to fully analyze what we're doing, and 70 percent of what we're doing is not the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. We will continue to act in an entirely European way when we unload, we will have a discussion of the bill not eight minutes, but, let's say, an hour, and everyone will know that the discussion of the law from 10 to 11 is the 11th, and there will be no 20-vote crisis. Now with regard to the Rules. In the Rules you need to clean not only electronic items, you need to clean the mechanism itself, as the colleague of Galasjuk said. I also have a bill that I'd like to take into account in the second reading, this is a change in the procedure of "hours to the government," this is a government press conference, this is not "hour to the government." It needs to be changed, just as it is necessary to change the parliamentary questions that should stand at the end, it is quite obvious. And, of course, make the online transmission of committees along with the online transmission of government meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u168	Thank you. I'll say a few words at the end of the Rules, dear colleagues. We're doing this work to make basic decisions together with all the factions. I think it would be very useful if we had a Cox mission, I mean, with a European Parliament mission. And it would be appropriate for you to make your proposals in writing, and they're all working out. Then there'll be a basic proposal with you about what we're doing and how. We're going to choose, and then we're going to have to accept it. I believe that in February, the Ukrainian Parliament has a good chance of becoming a modern European Parliament, where more efficient procedures and institutions, and government hours, and bill passages, and debates, and hours of voting, and pay for the work, everything else that will be tied to the effectiveness of the MP's work. We'll be able to do it with you. And the fact that functions should be passed on below, those that do not belong to the Ukrainian Parliament, I also agree with that. So I would very much like you to make written proposals to a group that works together, and meet with a group, make suggestions, convince them. And then we can systematize all of this. Please, Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u169	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Please pass the word to my colleague, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u170	Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u171	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, we will certainly support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Volodymyr Borisovich, I have an offer for you. Volodymyr Borisovich, I have an offer for you, please. I ask you to call a working group to prepare this bill for the second reading, where you can invite each faction to include one or two deputies. We really need this offer of yours to welcome. And we thank you so much for making such changes. And along with Mr. Cox's mission to process it systematically until the second reading. To take into account what my colleagues have said, and to take into account the changes in the "hour of questions to the government," which should be not a lesson to the people's deputies, but a normal professional discussion. And I also believe that Parliament should finally become a parliament, a colleague. Let's show you some professional, professional, serious systemic work. 90 percent of this work should be in the classrooms, in the committees, in the working groups, not here, in the rostrum. Here we have to find agreement and show this agreement in Ukrainian society. That's why we welcome this proposal, we vote for it. For the second reading, I ask you to do serious, systematic work without a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u172	Thank you for supporting the bill. Once again, I want to say that the deeper systems of change are in the Rules. This is a technical change, and more systematic and profound we will propose for a broader discussion and more serious systemic decisions. Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u173	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This law, of course, needs to be supported in the first reading. Absolutely logical, normal propositions. But there is one problem. Very often, on the Supreme Council website, information on draft laws, about the day’s schedule, about the revisions appears just a few hours before the beginning of the meeting. That's unacceptable. There's got to be more rapid work. Because MPs have the opportunity to prepare properly for meetings, to read, to learn all the suggestions, and to make decisions consciously and carefully. And one more question. I would like to address the leadership of the coalition, the leadership of the Parliament. We have a sensor button in every job right now, but it's not implemented for political reasons. How not to act when criminal authorities ruled. So let's finally do this. It just has to be one step - enter the sensor button into action. So that we do not have a shameful phenomenon of buttoning in Parliament, which unfortunately continues literally every day. Let's do this and this will be another step towards Europeanism in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor. And you'll also get proposals for a personal vote from this point of view. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u175	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. We do not object to the adoption of the bill only on first reading. Unfortunately, to date, violations of the Rules have become a system. We can vote in favour of the budget, I mean Parliament, when it is shown from the Bureau, unfortunately, that the Annotation Bills are being voted on, which is being read from the Government's floor. And we don't always see what we vote for second reading. If an electronic signature were working as it was, if people were responsible for adopting the bill or preparing it for second reading, there would be no objection. Therefore, Vladimir Borisovich, we have handed you a second reading application and would strongly request that this amendment be reflected. With regard to first reading, there is no objection. It's all electronic. But on second reading, let's still have a signed document on our hands so that we can understand exactly what we are voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u176	Thank you. Colleagues, I don't think this bill narrows down the right to get a written signature, this time. And that's going to be provided. And second position. Writing papers will even be available for each faction. It's just one thing -- if there's four hundred, more than four hundred, and the other thing -- when you're on the faction, you have the original, and you know that it's verified, and you're comparing. No one has a problem with that. I agree. Come on, colleagues. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, in fact, life changes, and demands change, including to the Ukrainian Parliament. And I propose, and the People's Front faction, to support the bill passed by the Speaker of Parliament and the leaders of our factions. It allows us to modernize our lives, our parliamentary work, it doesn't undo the paper component, and it's important. But it allows us to use new technologies. So obviously the People's Front faction will support it. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council Rules require serious changes, because we have new challenges, including after the ratification of the Association Agreement, we have a huge job to do in bringing our legislation closer to European standards, to the standards of the Association and European Law Agreement. So there's a 2046th bill, and let's also put it in place, and consider and prepare for a systematic change of regulations as part of a Cox mission that works on demand and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko. A minute, literally. Then Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u179	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, we have with you a bill of 2915, which is still submitted in May, in September, which is included in the agenda of the day session, and is a positive conclusion of the Main Committee, which foresees the cancellation of the lunch break from 12 to 12.30. I am his author, along with his colleagues Kishkar, Lubinec, Krulk, and Sumar. Please join the other colleagues. It's a disgraceful practice that we can't work from 10:00 to 2:00 a.m., 4 hours without a break. People near the station can work, and we can't work and then we're going. The other one. It's to clean up the disgraceful practice, well, that's right, the wrong practice of amendment for confirmation. Corrections should be excluded. If anyone disagrees with the decision of the Main Committee, he must gather coalitions. 226 votes out, because we're totally nullifying the role of the Main Committee. And the last. Better is the enemy of the good. That is why it is necessary to change the Rules in this way, including by supporting the bill. Because as long as we wait for the overall reform, we are inefficient. Please put 2915 in the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u180	Please, colleagues, very briefly. Victor Vasilovich Chumak. And then Vladislav Dove. And we'll finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I think it is only necessary to welcome the changes that will be adopted to the Rules, which do not meet our intentions to work more productively today. I would like to propose that, Volodymyr Borisovich, as part of this overall reform of the Rules, we get to what needs to be changed in principle, the software base of the website. Because very many documents are not opened, especially in new types of gadgets and new types of technology. In addition, Volodymyr Borisovich, a registered bill that has in principle analogies in all the world’s parliaments on the legislative initiative. When a legislative initiative is taken not only by one national MP but by a group of national deputies, it is made by at least half the smallest fraction. This is absolutely in line with world practice. And then we're going to have a much less legislative, let's say, array of materials. And what's more, the bill of legislation will already be supported by a large group of deputies on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u182	Thank you. Please, Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u183	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, I certainly agree with everyone who says that the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules requires systematic changes. But at the same time, a few weeks ago, I had the honour of participating in the Open Government World Congress, where in the Open Parliament sub-section, we were just discussing the changes we are currently discussing, particularly the 3207 Bill. And in my report on this bill and our powers to change our parliament to make it more open, all of our colleagues from the world parliaments agreed that if we adopt these changes, our parliament will become much more open and will be one of the most progressive parliaments in the world. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill. And we will certainly continue to work on systemic change to make Parliament more open than it was before.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u184	Thank you. Ruslan Knyazevich a minute, please. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we just talked about everything during the discussion. They didn't say the most important. The point is that the Supreme Council Rules Act is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine as we returned to last year. And we need not such cosmetic changes, but systematic changes in the understanding of the introduction to the Constitution. We have huge gaps in the Rules, and now we have to regulate a kind of legal relationship with the rules of the Constitution as the rules of direct action. This leads to a huge number of problems and conflicting decisions, including parliamentary decisions. So let's start with that, and then it'll be easier on the march. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask all the national deputies to enter the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please don't let anyone go after the vote, we will now vote on the personnel issues of our fellow national deputies, who have been chosen by the mayors and who want to exercise their authority. It's going to be three people's deputies. So please remain in your seats. And then I declare the morning session closed. Colleagues concerning the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. While the MPs are in position, please come in. There's a few parts, so what we're taking now is actually a part that's not that big in volume, but it's going to allow for the introduction of elements of an electronic parliament, elements separately. What we're going to offer you as part of our work together with the European Parliament is a systemic change. I'm against us adopting one law on both. I'm here for you and me to adopt systemic decisions, from the point of view of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. And so, at the same time, these are institutional questions and procedural questions. At the same time, we are now conducting an open public technical modernization of Parliament, what Viktor Vasilovich said, so that we can work faster with information resources. And then I want to say in parallel that there's going to be a serious training program for the staff that we're working with in order for us to have both a service service and a technologically modernized public system, and open to lawmaking, and so that all the procedures that are taking place in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament are consistent with both the Constitution and better European practices. So a little bit more patience, there's a month and a half -- these proposals will be. 3207, esteemed colleagues, head to vote? Please support the bill on the basis of the first reading. Based on 3207, please support, colleagues, on a base. Please vote. Ready? Vote, colleagues, 3207, on the ground. Colleagues, we vote, please support. [[14:00:46]] For 245 245. The decision has been made. Thank you. And we're going to form a group to prepare it as well as possible for the second reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is one before we announce a break. There is a proposal for a decision to elect the members of the committee, namely to choose Najima Mustafa Massi, Ukrainian National Deputy, as a member of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, by exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee on European Integration. It's also been a decision in Parliament for many months now. Please, 3117. 3117, Mustafa Najem. I would like to support you in general, Mustafa Najem. 3117. Are we voting on our colleagues? Mustafa Nayem, 3117, Committee of Law Enforcement. We're voting on the whole decision. Vote. [[14:02:08]] For 186 186 did not get the required number of votes. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Wait a second, who did we have a deal with? Dear colleagues, let's move on. Colleagues, we have, you know, a speech by our colleague Zlata Ognievich, a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Zlata Ognievich. Paul Pinzenik, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered on the committee on November 11th a statement by the national deputy, Ognievich Zlaty Leonidovna, concerning her delegation's credentials. In accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution and article 4 of the Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies, the relevant draft Decree (registration 3462) has been introduced, please be determined by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, you have a decision to make. Decree 3462, Zlata Ognievich, suspends the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Ognievich Zlata Leonidovna, who was elected in a state-wide multi-mandate district in connection with her personal application for parliamentary powers, which flowed from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Ready? Please vote for the termination of the mandate of Zlata Ognievich. Vote. Zlata Ognievich. [[14:04:19]] For 202 We didn't make it. I see they haven't made it. Colleagues, please repeat your offer: Zlata Ognievich, 3462. Vote. Calm down, please. Vote. Compilation of the mandate of Zlata Ognievich. [[14:04:50]] For 197 No votes. Let's move on. 3521: National Deputy Vladislav Anatoliyevich Atroshenka in connection with the election of the city’s head of the city of Chernig. Please, in connection with your personal claim, 3521 – Atroshenko, Vladislav Atroshenko. Let's vote in general, please, colleagues, please let's vote. They accept the oath of city heads. [[14:05:30.]] For 208 Colleagues, please concentrate again, again, once more. Can I have your back, please, 3521? Ready? Our colleague Vladislav Atroshenko. Please calm down, please. Our colleague Vladislav Atroshenko was elected the city’s city chief. He needs to be authorized, he has to be authorized now to accept the authority of the city's head. Including now voting on Phillatov Boris – the same situation, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. I ask everyone to take their positions and vote. Please, Atroshenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich, in charge. We vote Atrashenko, we vote 3521, we vote. [[14:06:38]] For 213 None. And Vladislav. And the People's Deputy of the Philatews. [[B in m in s a l in]] Boris Filatov yet, the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Decision 3522 is the establishment of Boris Filatov’s mandate. Please 3522 – Boris Filatov is elected city head. the city of Dnipropetrovsk. We vote in general, on the basis and in general. Boris Filatov. Boris Filatov, Dnipropetrovsk. Please. [[14:07:43]] For 207 Again, colleagues. The offer for Boris Filatov, the city of Dnipropetrovsk, our colleague of the national MP, 3522. All right, please, Oleg Lazko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u189	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, I address you. Three Ukrainian national deputies have written statements of parliamentary powers. This is the right of a national MP. I ask, regardless of who the faction belongs to, we all vote in favour of ending the powers of Zlata Ognievich, Vladislav Atroshenka and Boris Filatov. This will be right and fair. Why do some vote for one another, others do not vote for another? This is wrong! It's irresponsible! This is the right of a national MP. They chose him as mayor, so let him go to work. She wrote the Golden Statement, she wants to do something else, let's vote. Because you don't vote for Gold, we don't vote for you, and all the questions are all broken. Let us not transform the Supreme Council, as yesterday, the unfortunate judge voted 20 times! Well, that's not right. The people are watching and wondering what we're doing here. Let's vote for all three of us, and we'll stop the authorization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor. Again: Zlata Ogniewitch. Yuri Lucenko, please. One minute. We have six minutes until recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u191	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This abnormal situation with subjective decisions did not begin today. For a long time now, if not more than ten times, we're going to try to transfer colleagues who want to change the committee, which is also their constitutional right. For example, Mustafa Najam wants to join the Committee on Law Enforcement. For example, two of our new deputies want to join any committee. But one faction says, "Not until they change the head of a committee delegated by us who left the faction." We can also say that we have the first intercessors of the people who came out of the faction. Colleagues, let's not put up with each other. Or we're all voting together now for any deputy after the application to be able to change the committee without any condition, there's a political power quota, it can go to this committee, and it shouldn't be subjective to PBB, not to Self-Help, not to radicals. Right after that, let's move on to the question of compiling powers, which should also be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u192	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u193	Excuse me. It's not different things, it's the same thing. The MP has the right to move from committee to committee, and the MP has the right to mandate. Both and that is his constitutional right. We start voting on the calendar coming: first the deputies who want to change the committee, then the deputies who want to form a mandate. BPP will be sequential.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u194	Thank you. Finish up. Colleagues, well, I think it's a constructive offer. Oleg Berezuk, please, Self-Help. I think we're going to talk now and finish this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, indeed every MP has the right to move from committee to committee and every faction has the right to represent itself on a committee and all rights are equal, Mr. Lucenko. But I also ask you not to confuse peas with cabbage. When people in Dnipropetrovsk and Chernigov chose a mayor, we don't associate that with any deputy and any committee. When a person decides to leave parliament, it's also his personal business, it's two different planes, and I ask him to approach them that way. We will vote for the measures to become mayors, and Zlata Ogniewicz left parliament because she wants to, all other parliamentary matters must be discussed in order to make a consensus decision in the interests of the Ukrainian state and all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u196	Colleagues obviously don't have a joint solution right now. Let's at least take the mayor, okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, no. All right, all right, all right. Please, Cloud, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u197	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, now is the moment at which you should mention the history of the eight-month-old. From this rostrum, the Opposition Block kept telling you one thing: "There is no quota." And you said, "No quota." Today you say, "The quota has been released, we're filling in the quota." Who are you kidding, "The Opposition Block," or are you crazy about society? That's the first one. If you speak for the MP's right, where is the right of the opposition block to the committee? Where is that principle of yours? Give the Opposition Block the right to work on the quota committees. Moreover, 52 persons are now in excess positions of substitute heads in the Committee’s position. And you don't solve that question. Let us approach this: if quotas are for all, if the right is for all. Be consistent, respectable coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u198	Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the distinguished previous speaker! I explain to those who have not heard for the first time. There are no quotas, but the Rules provide for the proportionality of representation of deputies from factions and groups. And if the law enforcement committee is allowed to have a BP of 7 and there are 6, then Najem has the right to enter. The opposition block has been offered by the coalition to lead three blocks, three committees. But your puppet guides would like to continue to translate the committee of freedom of speech into “the committee of not freedom” as you have it; the committee of human rights in “the committee of human prisons” as you have it. That won't happen! Take what they give or sit where you are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u200	Colleagues, offer, literally, 30 seconds, please. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! There is an offer to return now to the question of putting an end to parliamentary powers. The first is to vote on the decision of all chambers to terminate Atrocenka's parliamentary powers, chosen by the mayor of Chernigov. The second decision of all Halls to terminate the parliamentary powers of Zlata Ogniewicz in connection with her application. And the third decision of all the House to terminate the powers of the deputy Philatevo Boris in connection with the election of the mayor of Dnipropetrovsk, Nayer, is to be elected as a member of the committee. And I'm convinced that the entire room will support, our faction will vote in favour of all the decisions, including those concerning the members.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m0.u202	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Let's start with Mustafa Nyem, shall we? Colleagues, please look at Mustafa Najem. 3117 Orders. Vote? You're determined, we're just quietly determined by the vote. There is, there is, there isn't. And we'll close the meeting. 3117, Mustafa Najem. 3117, Mustafa Najem, transfer. Let's vote, I'll put it all together one time. And it won't be us, there are voices, so it'll pass. None. [[14:16:40]] For 190 We understand that there are no votes. According to the committees, Sevrukov, Sverke, there's no point in betting now, it won't. Next. Come on, fellows, keep looking. Next. Atroshenko, Vladislav Atroshenko, Prostova 3521. Vladislav Atrashenko. Appoint by vote. Atoshenko, 3521, determine by vote, colleagues. Please. Vladislav Atroshenko, 3521. [[14:17:23]] For 206 206, no votes. And 3462, Zlata Ogniewitch. Please identify yourself. 3462, Zlata Ogniewitch. [[14:17:46]] For 212 I didn't get the required number of votes. I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Thank you.
