ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We begin our morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please ask the national deputies to take their seats so that we can start our work. Before we begin the registration, I would like to inform you, Your Honor, that the issue now is extremely acute with regard to the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies. In fact, we have to follow procedure on this path. But this procedure should not delay the consideration of this issue by the people's deputies, and Parliament should carry out part of its mandate to deal with this issue and to make a decision. And to no one, I emphasize that, and no one has the right to delay this process. We've just discussed this issue on the Council of Coalitions. And there's a question today for the profile committee, which has a function of reviewing this issue and preparing it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Which, unfortunately, as far as I can tell from the previous information, has not happened. So there will be a council meeting at 12 o’clock. I invite the first deputy chairman of the Committee of Paul Pinzenic to be ready to inform you about the meeting that took place. And I think it's quite possible to hold a committee meeting again to address this issue perfectly. And after consideration, make the decision-making room for the Ukrainian people's deputies. So I would ask the leaders of the factions of the coalition to meet us for 12 hours. I'd like to ask the apparatus to organize a presence at this meeting of the first deputy chairman of the committee. And accordingly, after this meeting, it will be decided that we are finally making sure that no one is speculating on this issue, and that Parliament can decide on this issue. I would be grateful if you would take a constructive approach to this matter, fellow members of the national parliament. Please prepare for registration. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. Please. [[10:03:59]] 296 deputies are registered in Parliament Hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for one minute. We are constantly working on improving electronic systems in Parliament. And a few of these systems are already in place, and I'd like to get to know you. But before I do that, I would very much like your attention, colleagues. I would like your attention to see what service has already been done for the citizens of Ukraine and for the national deputies to make our work more transparent and efficient. You can see on the screens now our website of Parliament, which has a chapter like "Legislability." If you look at the screen, you'll see it now. There's a new service in "Legislability" called "Electronic Protocol". Please pay attention to this. Now when we go to the opening, we have a calendar, if you see, of our work calendar. And our whole day of work, starting with the agenda, finishing audio, video files, ending with the results of the vote being fully converted into electronic mode. At any given moment, we can look at the issue of order of the day, the report on it, the text part, how many people voted for it, make comparisons and so on. This is a service that can be very effective in our work. Take, for example, May of the month, May 15. Last session, if you see it. You see. Then it's 22nd. Please see what happened on this day in electronic form. That is, the registration in the hall, on the weather, on the eve of time, was followed by Green Igor Alexiyovich, if you remember, it was 25 years in the Ukrainian Parliament, then the oath was our colleague Refat Chubarov and then the consideration of issues such as the report of Deputy Minister of Social Policy Muschinin. And so when we look at this report, we can take a stenographer, you see, yes, a stenographer of this performance. And we can also pick an audio file from it. Please, I think he'll hear. There's an audio file that you can listen to after he's done it. And also, honourable colleagues, there's a video file. So in fact, in every file, in every decision, it's digitized. And we've done it since February. So that makes it possible. Louder. So this gives you the opportunity, your honorary colleagues, to do it completely. Come on, 22nd, all right. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Here we had the government's 22-number day, asking questions to government officials. The national deputy Gus was asking questions. In fact, there's both an audio file and a video file and a transcript of this performance. I think it's going to be very important. If we take it by law, the same story by law. Including honorary colleagues, the results of voting for a certain law. Today, every citizen, looking at the agenda, can see how, and compare, his national MP votes for one or the other law. I think this is the service you can use. And I call for this to be used, including by journalists. So in fact, our day is completely digitized and it contains all the information for our work. Next, dear fellows, we can see. Including, notice, dear colleagues, this is a schedule of our votes for the appropriate date. So in May of the month, and if you'll excuse me, that's 15 numbers of graphs, look, colleagues, 15 numbers, you see how many people's deputies were there. But when we introduced public information about attendance and voting, 22 numbers, you see, otherwise, there's already been a presence and a vote. So there's been a corresponding increase. Next, we see in political parties how much percent were involved in the vote, and on what day. This makes our work more transparent. And so we have an electronic protocol where we define the position of each MP, the report, the transcript, the video files to a particular question. And also, we have day-to-day statistics on the voting that you can use. The second position taken? Please note, this is a question of our preparation of materials for second reading. This decision, first of all, has made it quite convenient for us to consider the issues of second reading. So the spreadsheets, once we make the changes to the Rules, that'll give us a chance to save, attention, 40,000, 40 tons of paper and about 1.5-2 thousand trees every year, I don't talk about saving millions of dollars of money there. Thank you. So in a comparative table to a second reading, we see a comparative table with you. One click, we take it off, and right now we can look at all the things that are fixed there. This way we can electronically deal with the question for the second reading in the order of the day. These changes, respected colleagues, will require appropriate changes to the Rules. I'm going to prepare these changes, I'm going to register them, and I'm going to thank you for supporting these changes that will allow us to work in electronic mode, which means we're going to be effective, open, accessible, and every citizen in Ukraine will understand who works, who votes, what decisions are made, who takes what position. I think it's just going to be a plus for our work and for openness to Ukrainian society. Next. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the morning plenary. As a result of my registration, I declare it open. Today is the birthday, the honorary colleagues, of our colleague Mikola Knieżicky. Let's welcome him. Mikola Leonidovich, welcome to your birthday! And according to our Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak from MPs and factions. Please prepare for registration. Who was careless, my dear colleagues, I'll drop an electronic presentation at your email address to see how to use it. Please register. The statement has been completed. Please, "Will of the People" Group, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I think those colleagues who worked in the districts last week, met people, tried to get into their problems, shared my view of people being desperate, people being panic-stricken, and people are getting angry. Why are people drawn to despair? They don't know how to survive. They show their retirement books, they show their payments, and they don't understand why the state has abandoned them in a way that makes a lot of noise about endless and effective reforms. People are panicking, they're starting to make solid fuel, and it's going to be hugely high. People have anger that they're told to die. There are absolutely no treatments in the district hospitals and people are dying. So, dear colleagues, we have to give up that schedule of sessions that we're proposing, give up those "hotels" (sorry for the jargon word) and decide on the difference in the pension tax, decide on the indexation of pensions, wages, as a minimum, at the level of subsistence, at the level of inflation. We need to make an immediate order for the release of the minister of health. I think we're all convinced that inviting foreign people into government is equivalent to inviting parents in the family. And it will be a proper attitude toward families. We need to make a decision and consider a law that, by the way, should be considered about the monetary lenders, the loans they took. We need to consider today the law on the right of women to retire at 55 years of age. Why is this law hidden? What Can You Tell People? And a lot of other questions, including making a decision to make people who survive today at the expense of keeping a cow in their farm, so that it doesn't cost 2 bracelets, 2 bracelets 50 copies when a bottle of Morshin, half a liter, costs 11 bracelets to be normal reasonable prices. I urge you, my fellow Members, I beg you, let's make the decisions that people need. Otherwise, there is no need to imitate this violent activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Please "self-help", Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u4	In Self-Help, one request and two demands. The request is very simple. Colleagues, let's start adopting the Local Elections Act this week. Many parliamentarians from all the factions of the coalition under the chairmanship of Alexander Chernenka have done great work to prepare legislation on this subject. It's very important that we be able to adopt a law in a timely fashion that will introduce open-ended elections that will make a fair 2nd round of mayoral selection that will make it possible to select normal local self-government bodies. Request for Parliament's leadership to put this law to a vote on Thursday. Now it's a requirement. Dear colleagues, it is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament. What's going on with Sergey Clovis being arrested is a crime, a crime itself, involving the Ukrainian Parliament, into which the factions of the coalition are involved. I don't think one of us has the suspicion that there's a non-aggression pact between today's and the country's former leadership. There's a circular message. We have no right to allow this to be, we have no right to agree to play by these rules. I want to refer to the leadership of the People's Front, who has delegated today's governor of the Regulatory Committee, and I want to refer to the leadership of the Peter Prashenko Block, which has the largest faction in the coalition. Colleagues, you and I were in Euramydan together. If someone told us then that we would be in power and we would delay the arrest of Sergey Clovis to do what we would do to look at these people? Whose side are we on now, the aunt side, on the side of the Berkut back then, on the side of the gang back then? We demand that Sergey Clovis be arrested immediately today! The Regulatory Committee had many opinions on how well the Office of the Attorney General had done its work. We have the same doubts. So the last requirement for this week's vote in the Self-Help faction is the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions. When the Attorney General is ill, when the Ministry of Internal Affairs is ill, let's make a law that will allow parliamentarians to investigate that will allow society to investigate that will allow our country to clean up. Instead of reproaching us, let us honor ourselves with the responsibility that humans have given us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you about the local elections. In fact, there was a group of national deputies that I created with the decision of the Supreme Council. She finished her job last week, this group. And there was a draft of the Local Elections Act right on the open list. And so we're going to give the commission accordingly, and I've given the task to the profile committee to look into this issue on Wednesday. And on Thursday, we're going to pass a number of laws, because the Local Elections Act has at least a few options to put it into the hall. And we've started, we've moved on to considering and making decisions about these laws. And we were born with one fine law after the local elections. Of course, with open lists alone, everything else makes no sense. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! June 1, 2015, without exaggeration, can be considered a historic day. It was yesterday that a new regulation of the pension law came into effect, which was voted in parliament on the initiative of the "Radical Party" faction, which cancelled the special order of the pension. From now on, regardless of where they work, prosecutors, judges, tax collectors, government officials, or deputies, all will be entitled to a pension under the same law and under the same conditions. There will now be no special pensions for a single cycle of selected and general pensions for millions of ordinary workers. There will be no pension now when a person in the village has worked his entire life, received a copy pension, an official sitting in the warm and well received 30, by 40,000 dollars of pension. That's what millions of Ukrainian citizens demanded during the 24 years of independence, that's justice in retirement. The "Radical Party" faction succeeded, and since June 1st, we've cancelled a special retirement order. But this is just the beginning of our journey to protect the pension rights of citizens. The next decision that the Ukrainian Parliament has to make, and we insist that this decision be made immediately, is to return to the people who are retired, 15 percent of the pension they are currently calculating. This is a disgrace when people who have earned a pension earn a penny pension and have 15 percent of the pension. So we demand that the Ukrainian Parliament immediately, literally today, make a decision and our laborers men, women who are barely living up to that pension, give them back the 15 percent that they are now calculating from their pension. Next. We insist that Parliament immediately review the bill and overcome the President's veto of our law, which was passed by the Supreme Council in January on the initiative of the Radical Party faction, is to allow women to retire at 55 years of age on condition of retirement. President Poshenko vetoed this law and for several months the Supreme Council cannot consider and overcome this veto. We demand today, without delay, to submit this bill to Parliament Hall, to overcome the President's veto, and to allow our flowers, our beautiful Ukrainian women, to retire at 55 years of age. Similarly, we demand an immediate review of the bill on wage and pension index, allowing people not to survive, but to live. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u7	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u8	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the whole country celebrated the day of child protection. And today we do propose that we do mention their families. Today's most painful issue for citizens is extremely high housing and utilities tariffs, and that's what all our colleagues are talking about. At the same time, the working group of Parliament, which was created on the demand of the Fatherland faction, which was composed of all the factions, found that the Government's initiative to raise natural gas and its consumption of municipal services for the population was not justified. In particular, the working group identified the following: the standards and volumes of gas consumption directly to the population for production in the projected balance are too high; they should be reviewed; in the government, there is enough gas for utilities, and information to the government on the need for such a quantity of imported gas as has been increased at least twice; tariffs have been unjustifiably imposed on the production and loss of gas in the pipelines and no measures have been taken to increase the production of its own gas in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Even the approval of the report by the working group in Parliament is already a serious step forward in solving this painful issue, and we believe that the government must respond to this decision. Additional tariffs are to be carried out without delay, and new natural gas prices have been developed, taking into account those used for the needs of the population as approved by the Decree of the National Commission of 583. Together, we have been able to reduce double the standard for gas for apartments where there are no counters. But we insist that we change the standard that needs to be increased to use gas for houses, from 200 to 350 meters cubic. On tariff matters, I'm calling your attention. The Supreme Council has done its job! Now it's a matter of government. Dear colleagues! People expect justice. We must continue to take all possible steps to bring municipal tariffs to the economically sound. At the same time, the Parentage Party insists on carrying out an immediate monetary payment index. I want to pay attention to you, dear colleagues! As a result of April, in the actual prices of April, the initial minimum for those who have lost their jobs is actually 822 bracelets at prices, and people get 949! Today, 50 percent of the minimum is a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. We insist on the adoption of all the laws passed by the Fatherland faction on indexation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u9	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u10	For the index of pensions, wages, scholarships and social benefits to a population that does not take into account today’s inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u11	Please, People's Front, Andriy Anatolyovich Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u12	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! There is a statement in the media about the creation by Ukrainian government officials of special conditions for private stockholders of the Ukrnafta company, thus effectively depriving our country of the exclusive right to manage this society. As a result, there are no billions of resources that are so important to our country at this critical time. The People's Front faction requires an investigation into this statement and an explanation, and a study of these applications. Second, my colleagues call for conscience and discipline. But I would like to point out that it was the representatives of the People's Front who, during their study of the issue of the removal of immunity, demanded and put to the vote a special decision on the question to be put to the session room. That's why the People's Front requires quality investigation and study of this issue. So I propose to the representatives of the other factions to support our statements and vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary immunity. The People's Front faction will support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, there have been a series of events over the past two weeks involving both the political and economic life of the country. But unfortunately, they have not solved the key issues that concern all of our citizens. The government has not moved forward in the implementation of the Minsk Accords, there is no progress in solving economic problems, namely, wage indexes and pensions, which in the face of rising inflation is a painful issue. However, the coalition did not find room in the daytime for them. Once again, the ruling coalition is engaged in satisfying its political ambitions, not paying attention to the needs of the people. We insist that we return to the consideration of matters that need immediate solutions. First. There is a need for legislation to secure the Minsk Accords. Against the backdrop of the efforts of the entire international community to resolve the conflict, Parliament's inaction seems to be at least irresponsible. We found this to be true yesterday when we shared in the Nazi faith. hearings in Paris with representatives and the governing coalition. States. With full responsibility, I can convey to you the concerns of our French colleagues about the situation in Donbas. So we encourage the governing coalition to consider the bill package we have presented in the framework of the Peace Plan. One question is the restoration of the damaged infrastructure on Donbassa. Two weeks ago, in the Luhansk region, a highway pipeline was damaged. Today, there are thousands of inhabitants, dozens of inhabited areas: Alcevsk, Stahanov, Kirovsk, Luhansk. This threatens the disastrous environmental and humanitarian consequences. Therefore, by supporting the efforts of the contact group that is meeting today in Minsk for the exchange of prisoners on the settlement of the situation, we call for the restoration of water supplies from controlled Ukrainian water to these points. For the past two weeks, only the lazy one has not spoken of the new dragon tariffs set for the citizens. The Opposition Block, at the stage of the budget adoption, warned of the difficult social consequences of such decisions. Today, even many members of the coalition have found that by raising tariffs and reducing pensions and wages, people will simply pay nothing. The problem is deeper: non-payment of tariffs, non-payment of energy bills is the way to break the heating season. So we call on Friday to listen to the government after four months of gas - filled shelters, coal deposits, and the heating season. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kulinich, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u16	Oleg Kulinic, MP of Rebirth, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The Act, developed by the Government and adopted by the Supreme Council on February 2, 2015, provides for a fundamental reform of the local self-government system in Ukraine. It is about uniting the territorial communities. It's probably a really good idea, and it's going to solve the number problems that we have here today. But as we constantly meet voters, village heads, we see that there is a problem of volunteering in community unity. After all, if it is a voluntary union, it must be truly voluntary for humans to want it. Instead, the village heads feel substantial pressure daily on the part of the executive on this issue, even blackmailing, unifying, not receiving adequate funding. And where's volunteering? The second problem, according to the new law, is that in a week or two people have to make their own decisions, unite, not unite? Who? How? Simple people are not told what this reform will bring them. Proposals for the unification of territorial communities developed by district administrations, not taken by the majority of the local population, the law does not answer the question of what will happen next? What will happen to the local budgets? How can they be shared? What will be the cost? What will happen to the earth? What happens to utilities and only these problems that lie on the surface. With regard to small silages, the result is that 1 in 5 villages will simply be forgotten and destroyed. Because where there's no silage, there's no village. There are areas that accept unification. But the vast majority of people don't understand anything, and by July 15, new communities have to apply for funding next year. And most importantly, under this law one of the conditions of unification is the quality and accessibility of administrative services, which should not be lower than to unification. We often hear about Poland's experience, but there were working electronic services, quality roads, so that we could quickly get to the centers. Since then, communities have been united. What do we have? An elderly person will have to drive 30 kilometers to get help on a bus that goes twice a week, at best. And how much time, nerves, costs will take to change the documents of individuals and legal persons in the form of evidence and so forth. Who needs such reform? So the MP's Rebirth Group suggests that we stop the process of voluntary community reunification. Select pilot projects in each area, in each area, to organize a merger, to make roads, and to implement everything that is proposed to be achieved by this reform. And only if the experiment succeeds in uniting communities will there be a new collapse of local self - government because of completely unthinkable politics. The MP's Rebirth Group is calling on the government to get people to accept these changes and start to unite not only to push them. Give them incentives, create a normal system of electronic services, and basically, give them the right to actually manage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few words about voluntary union. In fact, there may be differences in the point of dissuasion in this matter. But the whole package of legislation on local self-government, it's not meant to destroy villages and that's not true. In fact, in every village today, there will be a body that provides all the services, and there will be no need to go anywhere. Yes, that is, in old age there will be a seal; he will do all that the village council does today. But incentives are already being created today, so this is a new direct budget, and this is the way out of subordination, and so on, and so on and so forth. The only thing I want to agree to is that there's not enough information and awareness-raising work going on. And when this information doesn't come in time, it's true -- someone always starts to replace it with something else. So there can be no compulsion. The existing system allows us to unite and become stronger and richer or not to unite and remain in the state in which we are today. As a result, the united communities receive a new budget of quality, get universal governance, get land management, get the opportunity to create various organs of governance, and so on. I mean. But it has to be totally voluntary, and there's still a lot of explaining to be done. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the arrest of two members of the Chief Intelligence Agency of the Russian Federation at Donbas for the whole world has been a front for Russian aggression against Ukrainian Donbas, for the whole world, but not for the Kremlin. His speakers continue to delight the world and the late Goebbels with unguilty lies. The last trick of Russian propaganda was that it was said not to be an officer of the Russian Federation's diversified intelligence group, but simple mercenaries of their own volition. Well, gentlemen of the Kremlin, you misread the cyanide Mikhail Bulgakov, who was very available to describe what's going on after the magic, and then they're exposed. The thing is, two of the arrested officers of the Russian Federation's GRU had their cell phones removed, on which the records were well preserved. Part of which we're going to be able to see right now. In these records, we're going to see not two of the alleged mercenaries, but in the full composition of the Russian Federation's diversified intelligence group that were on Donbas. To be sure, these hired men are even talking, we're going to hear it right now: "He embraces Ukrainian land as a native." They are carrying out combat tasks of a terrorist nature in our territory. They're resting in our territory. They're shooting our soldiers. Finally, they will be held accountable to the Ukrainian court for terrorist orders. Please show the video for the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u19	Please don't take it into account, in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u20	So, citizen aggressors, let's remember once again Bulgakov: "Congratulations to you, citizen, cheating!".. We all understand that the Kremlin is not just lying about its two military men. The Kremlin continues to send terrorist groups and military equipment and ammunition to the occupied areas of Donbas. The president of Ukraine believes that the cancer tumor is blocked. The practice of the head of Mr. Moskal's Lugano Military and Civil Administration, who stopped any movement with occupied areas, is deemed correct, and it must also be spread in the Donetsk region. In 1918, the Ukrainian People's Republic predicted an administrative unit in those countries called the "Poleland". It seems to be time to recreate it, at least temporarily, so that the sexes can learn to be Ukrainians and then come to our territory where peace, peace, and well - being are. In order to speed up this process, the Ukrainian authorities must take several strategic steps in the meantime. First. Strengthen the collision line and establish an economic blockade on occupied areas. Logic is simple: either the Russian Federation is producing terrorist groups and technology, and it allows Ukraine to establish control over the state border, or we're temporarily holding the blockade on the internal line of collision. The other one. Create a priority economic development zone in the freed areas of Kharkiv and Odessa. The middle class is to leave occupied areas, obtain microcredit in Ukraine to create new jobs, and local military-civil authorities have to receive funds to rebuild infrastructure and build new housing for refugees. Third. To open an effective pro-Ukrainian media and social networking company all over Ukraine and the world. I think that this task should work both for Parliament and for the government this week and next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u21	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. In line with our consideration of Tuesday's meeting, we have a number of drafts that need to be included in the agenda of the session. Next, I think we're still working on it, and today there's going to be an additional decision to include issues in the agenda. And I think after the 12:30 break, we'll put him to the vote. But now there's a proposal by the people's deputies, including the factions of the coalition, that these draft laws that are being put to the vote today, vote for everyone, a package to be included in the agenda of the day session, is not a review, but just the order of the day session. That is, a series of government initiatives — attention! – 2818, 2956, 2887 – these are bill numbers. 2953, 2966, 2966-1, 2878, 2877, 2952, 2954, 2884, 2971, 2940, 2555, 2622, and 2795, 2337, 2639 and 2680. Now I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, you'll make an offer, we'll do some extra work. All I accept is a motion for exclusion. If there's an exception, we'll vote. The next list of agendas we're going to include with you the questions that have been asked today -- the Radical Party, the Fatherland and Self-Help. Then at 12:30, we'll put them to the vote. So I would ask, fellow honourable Members, to concentrate now, like the ones that I have called voting, I put to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. These bills were spoken and included. People's deputies would like to invite you into the hall, take your jobs. And we'll vote. Now the proposals, which were still other factions, are being worked out in Parliament's apparatus. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda of the day, are the agendas ready to vote? Please, I'll bet you a vote. Get ready, colleagues. Include in the agenda of the session. That's not for today's issue. At 12.30, I guarantee we'll make an additional list, but it will be processed by Parliament's apparatus. I'll put it in, and we'll vote it out. Let's vote, colleagues, for including this list in the agenda of the day that I just announced. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[10:45:34]] For 186 Apparently, there are no deputies in the hall. No, colleagues, listen carefully, there will be no question of the day’s session. I would like to stress that we are going to vote on this package now, and then at 12:30 I will introduce a new package that will be processed in Parliament accordingly. Colleagues, take your seats, we'll vote again. Colleagues, there are a number of governmental initiatives that need to be considered for decision-making, this is included in the agenda of the day session. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready to vote? Please take your seats, dear colleagues. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote? Please. Please support this inclusion in the agenda, colleague. [[10:46:53]] For 193 That's better. All right, guys, let's do it again. All right, we're going to take this question to. He doesn't need to be included in the agenda, I mean that vote, I'll put it in. Please, colleagues. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First reading. 2684 is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (with regard to the resolution of certain issues related to the adoption of the Law on Civil and Military Administrations of Ukraine), the national deputy of Herasimov. There is a proposal by the author of the bill to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please note that the bill is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. [[10:48:03]] For-183 Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u22	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! As you all remember in February this year, you and I passed the Law on Civil War Administrations. And the question of the implementation of the powers of military and civilian administrations is very important in order to normalize the vitality of the population in the territories of an anti-terrorist operation. But there's still a gap in the budget code regarding the transfer of authority from local authorities to military and civilian administrations when they're created. The bill (2684) therefore proposes in the Ukrainian Budget Code article 67/2 "The Specialities of the Design and Implementation of Local Budgets in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation" to complement and introduce the concept of "military and civilian administrations" in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Military and Civil Administrations when they are created. Thus, the bill simply corresponds to the provisions of the Budget Code and the Ukrainian Civil Administrations Act. Because at this point, there's a strange situation in the Budget Code that depends on inter-budget relations and very many things at the local level, there's no concept of military-civil administrations like that. I can say and note immediately the fruitful cooperation with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, with which we have worked very well and finalized this bill, and the fact that the Ministry of Finance was present during the discussion and fully supported our proposals. So I ask you to support the proposed bill as drafted by the Committee on Budget Issues on the basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Constantine Ischeykin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the draft number (2684), which provides for a clarification of the provisions of the Budget Code in part of the features of budgetary authority in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas and related to the implementation of the Law on Civil and Military Administrations. In general, by supporting the legislative initiative, the committee found it appropriate to reconcile the bill with the requirements of the law, taking into account the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In view of the fact that military and civilian administrations are formed by the President of Ukraine if necessary and if the authorities of local self-government cease to operate. At the same time, district and district government administrations do not stop their activities, but they acquire a different status of military and civilian administrations. The committee therefore proposes a valid editorial to complement the words "or by military-civil administrations in accordance with the Ukrainian Civil Administrations Act, if created." Such proposals are consistent with the drafters of the bill and with Minfin. As a result of the consideration, the committee adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law 2684 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals made in his letter to the Supreme Council. Appropriately, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to its text when it is signed. Dear colleagues! Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u25	Thank you, colleagues. Is there a need to discuss this bill? There's no two in favor, two in the opposite? None. Colleagues, then I ask you to prepare. You heard the report and the report. There's a proposal, on the basis and in general, on the committee. If there's no objection in the room, I'll put this motion to a vote. Is there no objection? None. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. In accordance with the Committee's decision, I propose that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration number 2684) should be adopted in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Military and Civil Administrations (registration number 2684) on the basis of the first reading and in general on the basis of the results of the first reading. Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Stop voting. Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u26	According to Bill 2684, the People's Front faction is only willing to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u27	Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, it's just that this bill really has a technical significance. We just put in article 67/2 the notion of "military and civilian administrations," not changing this article in itself. So I would very much ask my colleague to vote both on the ground and on the whole because this law is really essential for the vitality of military and civilian administrations, the vitality of these territories for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u29	Dear colleagues. Andrew Anatolyovich, do you take notes or not? Colleagues, I'm going to put the vote on the ground. First, we vote on the basis. Prepare, please, colleagues. Colleagues, prepare, please. Let's vote for it. 2684. We're voting on the basis. We're voting on the basis. Based on the base. Please support, on a base, your colleagues. Based on the base. [[10:54:49]] For 261 Decision taken. And now, fellow believers in general, there are? Yes. The government also supports the faction's support, yes, the People's Front, overruled. Then please have a total of 2684. In general. You've heard the proposal by Arthur Gerasimov that it has a technical law. Colleagues, total 2684. We're voting in general. We're voting in general. [[10:55:28]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of the Law (Registration No. 2500) Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for undeclared investigations (search) concerning judicial and law enforcement officials). The reporter is Yuri Lucenko. There is an offer by the rapporteur to consider this issue under reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure, please identify your colleagues. [[10:56:10]] For-182 Decision taken. Please report to Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your point is to propose a bill that is motivated by the vitality of life. Many of us are outraged when, in an attempt to bring criminal responsibility to a bribe judge or a judge who misuses his official authority, he is not allowed to do so, and this case is falling apart in other courts. Even worse, when operational units are trying to get permission for a certain judge to carry out a search and search, to listen, to document his corruption, and so on. The bill suggests that appropriate law enforcement authorities should be sent to another court, in the territory of another administrative unit not associated with personal knowledge, and that there should be joint work with a suspect in bribery or in other service crimes by a judge. From the point of view of the authors and the committee, this bill will improve the fight against corruption and abuse in the Ukrainian courts. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u31	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich, Kožemyka’s head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u32	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement (No. 2500) on the introduction of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for undeclared investigations (search) concerning judicial and law enforcement officials) (reported by National Deputy Lucenk Yuri). The bill proposes to supplement article 247 of the Criminal Procedure Code with a second part, which provides for the possibility of dealing with the possibility of conducting an indiscretional investigation procedure by an appropriate investigating judge outside the territorial jurisdiction of the judicial investigation body, which conducts a preliminary investigation. After reviewing the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies noted that the adoption of the bill would contribute to a more effective execution of the criminal conduct tasks set out in article 2 of the Criminal Procedure Code and to the independence and impartiality of the court. In addition, it will help prevent possible cases of judicial decisions or the illegal flow of information on the permission to carry out an unannounced investigation by the investigating judges of the Court of Appeal concerning judges, court officials or law enforcement authorities. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council: draft Law No. 2500 to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? Please sign two for, two against. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u34	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. It's a very decent and necessary law, but we have an editorial law. We ask you to delete the word "may" and leave it in the editor, "considers." Because "maybe," "can't" is a game of words. And in this case, when it comes to the abuse of judges and their actions, the law enforcement agencies, when it comes to police officers against whom they can't, here they have to look. That's why it's so editorial. And speaking of this law right now, I would like to draw the attention of the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the fact that the head of police in the Donetsk Region of Viacheslav Abroskin is moving around the country on a car, which is a piece of evidence. Where else is corruption? Check the Porsche Cain, where the head of the Donetsk militia is moving. The law is supported and the law is voted on as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Belkova, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Chumaku. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u37	Victor Chumak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, this is an extremely important bill that will improve the quality and speed and the effectiveness of investigating law enforcement agencies crimes committed by courts. We know today that there is a sufficiently serious circular message in the courts and the number of investigative judges who sell or report that there is a violation of a court official or judge. Some indiscretions are carried out, and they sell such information, as a result of corruption and a circular message. At the same time, I would like to support the amendment made by my colleague Mosiyczuk regarding the imperative of carrying out such investigations outside the area. The Peter Prashenko bloc will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lavrick, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u41	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will only support this law in the first reading. Because some standards really need to be changed, and you and I understand very well and we have witnessed how this happened when we chose precautionary measures for judges for whom the inviolability was removed. However, in this proposed bill, first of all, there is no procedure for how a court or tribunal is to be chosen, that is, how the investigator is to determine which court he should go to if there is such a threat. That's the first one. And the second question is, we think that if we've already chosen these two categories -- law enforcement officers and judges -- it should be clearly stated in this law which articles might be selected in such a non-standard measure of consideration. on the consideration of the issue of the selection of precautionary measures or the conduct of investigations in other courts, which are not by standard procedure defined by the Criminal Procedural Code. So we suggest that in the first reading, we accept. For the second reading, this bill needs to be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u43	Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Yes, indeed. The committee considered this question, and he really made decisions that he had just read from the committee. But in order to really, really get Yuri Vitaliyovich and those consultants who helped draft this bill, they're generalizing all the experience that today is actually in law enforcement, as well as in the investigation of some or other criminal conduct. And the domestic or any relationship that exists between the judges, the investigating judges of the appeals courts, when they bring, let's say, the filing of investigators or employees is operational to obtain permission to conduct indiscretions, of course they work. Not always, but it works. That's why this bill is correct, important, but. If you speak the legal language, I really agree with Mrs. Stotnik, and there are a few points in this bill that need to be addressed to the second reading. Okay, first of all. This is what Igor Mosiychuk said, this is, in fact, the bill does not mention cases, conditions and order of referral to a court outside the territory. One. The bill does not specify on which employees and law enforcement agencies are the subject of its application. Two. And the adoption of this bill, which is equally important, as proposed, could lead to numerous appeals on the grounds that the rules of jurisdiction have been violated. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill as a basis. We'll work on the second reading, it'll be a good, normal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can agree that 2,500 is important, but we can accept it, so I understand the result of the first reading as a basis. We continue to work out all the necessary adjustments to make it work effectively. Is there no objection to such an approach? Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. 2500 draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on Investigative Investigations concerning the employees of the court and the law enforcement agencies, prepared by National Deputy Yuri Lucenko. Dear colleagues, prepare for a vote of 2,500 as a basis. Please vote on the basis of 2,500. Vote, Your Honor, 2,500 as a base. [[11:06:36]] For 252 252 -- decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Draft Act, registration number 2608, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption on Declarations on Military Service. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrew Levus. There is an offer by the author to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be determined as to the consideration of the draft Act by a reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:07:20]] For-179 Decision taken. Please report, Andrew Maryanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, your consideration of the Change Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, which is very simple. You know what's going on now is a mobilization that mobilizes a lot of government officials and local self-government workers. And according to the law in force, 12 articles of the law in force are required by April 1 to make declarations on income and property. Accordingly, we see this and there are a lot of references, actually, from citizens who are mobilized. This makes it difficult for them, say, to fill out these declarations, to make these declarations. Accordingly, we propose that those citizens be suspended. And in the event that they're demobilized, within 30 days they have to make the necessary declarations. At the same time, give written explanations in arbitrary form to the relevant authorities that they do not have the capacity to make these declarations. Right away, I want to get to some of the comments that sounded on the profile anti-corruption committee, and there were two. The first observation was that the law did not seem to touch so many people. But the situation for now and what has come to us on the committee are 47 references to various mobilized persons. You also have to understand that those officials who are mobilized, they're mostly officials, let's say the district there, the rural level, and vice versa, honest people, because they've voluntarily gone, they've volunteered to join the army. The second observation is that the date of issue of the April 1 declarations has passed. And there's no point in that law. However, the current Code of Administrative Offences states that for another 3 years, there may actually be administrative persecution of the individuals concerned. If they find out they didn't make a declaration, then our heroes can still pay a fine for not making a declaration. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u47	Thank you. From the committee, please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u48	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u49	Yuri Timoshenko? Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko from the committee, from the seat, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u50	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, please come to the rostrum. Let's find out what's in there. Now we're going to find out if there's a problem with the microphones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u52	I'm going to add to the important condition of this law that it also applies to female declarants whose men are on the front, and it can't tell his financial data in his declaration, it can't submit it in an explanatory note, and it can then submit a detailed declaration within 30 days when, for example, a man returns and he can get all the data that he needs to complete the declaration. And that's why we supported this law on the committee. And we ask you all to support and protect those on the front who are now protecting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, two for, two for against, is there a need? None. We're voting on the basis, I understand. Yes. Yeah? Please sign in, two for, two against. Please log in, Victor Vasilovich. Sign in, two for, give it to the opposite, please. Please, National Deputy Veliczovich. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you from the place, now they're figuring out, technically, what's the problem. If you'll excuse me, please. Mikola Veličkovich, not from the place, from the rostrum, sorry. All those who are enrolled, please approach the rostrum. We'll figure it out. The next one is Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u54	Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. On behalf of the People's Front and the authors, we'd like to support this bill because it's really important. Because they call on the fronts on a number of occasions, their families say they can't file declarations, they're worried about not using different sanctions on the part of the tax authorities, and so I think we need to support our soldiers, who are on the front and their families, who are backing order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u56	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. A very important bill that needs to be supported. This bill will allow our defenders on the front not to worry about bureaucracy, which is essentially not possible in terms of war. It is therefore necessary to adopt this bill in order for the defenders of the country to actually feel that the State cares for them, remembers them, and does not force them to perform functions that are normally necessary, but not during the fighting period. Some here spoke of what might be a corrupt component. So let them go into the trenches and look at this ingredient. In fact, a very important bill that will allow families and the country’s own advocates not to be disturbed by the formal procedure but to implement it when they are able to do so. The Radical Party faction calls for a vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u57	Vladimir Gusak, political party of the Opposition Block, please. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u59	Please, Matvienkov, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u60	Matvienkov, 57 district. Dear colleagues, we do not, in principle, oppose this law, this bill is very necessary and important, no questions, there is no doubt. But we have doubts that for 47 people today, we are writing just the rule of law, and this legal norm completely misses those people who live in temporarily occupied territory who are also engaged in business, and who are also today having difficulties in formulating declarations that are there today. We're missing people who can't cross the territory today. We are missing the issue of laissez-passes today. That's how long we've spent on this bill, it could be adopted. Nevertheless, let us consider the issue of the pass system in this mode. How to organize and build work for those who live in these difficult conditions. And how do they, these millions of people, not forty-seven, properly build a system of living and living in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? There's a proposal to vote on this project as a basis, right? As far as I can tell. Colleagues, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u62	Please, dear colleagues, we are taking up jobs. Prepared for the vote. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption is put to the vote 2608. Please support this bill as a basis. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Vote. [[11:16:58]] For 260 Thank you for your support. I would like to point out that if there are warnings, and they really are about occupied territories and the inability to file declarations, we need to submit a bill. I'm sure we'll support him in the hall, and we'll do the same in the hall. In this case, we are talking about people on whom an active question is already being raised. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. 2620 Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Barna Oleg Stepanovich, who insists on asking us to consider the bill in a simplified manner. And so I ask you to support this proposal and vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:18:05]] For 178. Decision taken. Please report to Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u63	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, people of Ukraine. So we didn't think about who would teach them both in schools and in higher schools. And that's why the bill provides for the mobilisation of teachers from higher education institutions at the III-IV level of accreditation, which have a scientific and pedagogical load of at least 0.5 rates, a scientific degree, a title, as well as scientific colleagues who have scientific degrees and titles, scientific research institutes, centres, laboratories, institutions and their counterparts. I was approached by a number of lecturers from the country’s leading universities with a very critical situation. Like the introduction of the bill, the appeal of the university professors themselves caused an unhealthy campaign among military officials who went to universities and, unfortunately, not to raise their intellectual level, but to deliver messages to associate professors, to professors who took classes with students in order to carry out their mobility plans. Thus, a number of leading universities and scientific enterprises in the country have faced a critical situation with a lack of scientific instruction that endangers the scientific and educational process, scientific research and development. A particularly dangerous situation in the field of applied and fundamental sciences, where there are specific specialties, and it is virtually impossible to replace scientists. As a result of such thoughtless actions, even destruction has been threatened by science, thanks to which Ukrainian scientists, known all over the world, Ukraine was and remains a highly cultural state, the scientific potential of which it can restore our country. And thanks to this very science, the military switched axes to high - precision weapons that are already produced and tested in Ukraine. Please add another one-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u64	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u65	Thus, the Ukrainian Armed Forces Mobilization Department, the military commissioners of the district and district level, instead of properly restoring the mobilization lists together with the local self-governance authorities and militias, have in fact created schemes for lubrication from mobilization, and the mobilization plans have decided to compensate for the precisely needed societies, the most organized, the most responsible and needed countries, the production, the science of specialists, thanks to which the economy, industry, agriculture, education and science are still at large. At the same time, the military commissioners used a powerful reserve of pensioners, who already have special military training and special pensions. These are the pensioners of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the police, the prosecution, the Tax Police, and so on. As well as the number of unemployed or those who wander around on illegal wages. But in ancient Egypt, Babylon, Greece respected and protected the wise men of its era, thanks to which their civilizations made scientific and technological progress.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Sergey Pashinsky. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u67	John Winnick. Good fellows! In fact, according to the author of the bill, we need to get rid of the mobilization of certain categories of educational workers, because when we leave students in the VUZA, we need to teach them to someone. According to members of our committee, we also support this legislative initiative to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Instead, they wanted to read under the transcript the final text of the bill, which the committee is proposing. First. In the title of the bill. The title of the bill is given in the following edition. "The Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization" (for exemption from military service during the mobilization of teaching staff, teaching staff of higher education institutions, general education institutions and scientific colleagues). The other one. The very text of the law, in article 23. Article 23 reads as follows: "They are exempt from the recruitment appeal of teaching staff, scientific, scientific and educational workers, general education institutions, scientific institutions and organizations that have academic qualifications and (or) scientific degrees and work for a basic place of work with load of not less than 0.75 rates in the listed general educational or higher educational institutions, scientific institutions and organizations." In addition, to introduce into the Final Position as we did in other bills that defined the category of persons who are not subject to mobilization, that if the relevant teaching, science and teaching staff of the higher education institutions, scientific institutions and organizations that have the name and/or scientific degrees that preserve the place of work and the appointment of military service and the acquisition of validity of this law are subject to their release from service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I stress, at their request. Thus, the committee proposes to vote on the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u68	Thank you very much. Tell me, Your Honor, is there a need to discuss the bill? There's a need. Please write two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Gusak Vladimir Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear voters! The Opposition Block faction will undoubtedly support Bill 2620. Since it is necessary, of course, to preserve the scientific and educational potential of our country and to do what everyone knows. But I would like to point out that there are more painful issues in the country regarding the area of counterterrorism. In addition to the fact that the population has actually been cut off from the banking system, they are not paid social benefits, pensions, wages. Questions are also raised as to how to pay the tax on the added value of companies paying taxes. In turn, one member of the Bureau said that the representatives of the Opposition should register bills that in some way protect legitimate interests and rights, particularly those of the Donetské and Luhansk regions. I would like to draw attention to members of the Presidency, members of the Conciliation Council, who form the agenda that forms a list of drafts that are included in the agenda of the daily session almost every week. But the bills that are registered by the opposition block faction somehow don't go to that list. In particular, as a follow - up report from our faction, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have had a registered bill (2488), which relates to improving the order of entry into uncontrolled territory and leaving uncontrolled territory. The bill proposes to cancel a special pass as one of the corruption elements -- each resident requires a certain amount of money to be able to cross the respective collision zone and meet with relatives or receive pension payments. Please put in a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u71	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that during the discussion we need to discuss a bill that is under consideration, I make a comment. And I'm sorry to give you the word of Grinevich Lilia Mikhailovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we support this bill, it is extremely important. But I want to use my time to clarify the text of the bill. Because now it's in an editorial that we're supporting in terms of 0.75 bets and the main place of work. It turns out that there are very few men in schools who are teaching, or those who work in schools, and there are very few in schools, they cannot have a degree in science. In view of this formation, it is necessary to teach teachers who work in educational institutions, as well as scientific and academic staff in higher education institutions, scientific institutions, and organizations that have a degree in science. Therefore, I would like to take this into account when working on the text of the bill. Exactly. This formulation, it's in two parts of the bill. And please, let's put these places in this same line of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Musak Aleksei Petrovich, Peter Dustenka's Block. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Of course, teachers are raising a nation. And this is our intellectual potential. In doing so, I would like us all to realize that we all have to be equal. Because if we're giving aids or not being able to serve in the army at this point in time, we're essentially doing caste, and we have to offer it further, for example. Well, give it a chance not to serve doctors, tractorists. Yeah. Because the same problem is, who are we going to be processing the land? Yeah? Engineers are supposed to ride then. Who's gonna be driving the trains? That's why I'd like to say. Either the army is for everyone, or then let's make a judgmental decision and give the contractual army so that we don't have that kind of situation. So I urge you not to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u75	Please, Mosiyczuk, a radical party. And then we'll give it to Fatherland, Andrew Cosemiakin, one minute. Monsieur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u76	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We will support this bill, like all bills aimed at improving the issue of mobilization, the defence of the country, the protection of state sovereignty. But at the same time, I want to point out that the most anti-mobilization, against the involvement of our military and volunteers, is the work of some local officials. Including the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It's about the head of the Abroskina Daughter Police, who arrested and dropped for playing volunteers who took part in the fighting, took part in the liberation of Mariupol, in the fights in the Sands. Now this person who had previously served in Sevastopol and six months after the annexation was there, threw them away for playing, accusing them of some robbery that was not there. So when I take this opportunity, I call on the Minister of Internal Affairs to deal with his subordinates, because he's setting up a minister, he's setting up the whole country, and he's doing everything he can to discredit both mobilization and volunteer movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Andrew Cosemykin of Fatherland, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u78	Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. A law is really necessary, strictly technical. I agree with Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, he really needs to be supported. But we can see that there's another vote coming back, and there's a procedure that's breaking the Rules. And I think the faction thinks that we're taking it as a base, then we'll write it clearly so that we don't rule again. And the last. Political. In fact, perhaps all should be equal, as the previous speaker said, before the law no one should be discounted. But it seems to me that a person who is properly paid, properly armed, properly trained by the military, will many times do his job in war better than that person who gets, unfortunately, even at the invitation of such an extraordinary one. But I believe that when the state returns to military faces and praises God that they are not afraid to wear uniforms, they are proud of their profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, we've heard the arguments, and in fact, I think it's appropriate to agree to accept this bill as a basis, to work on it, so that there are no mistakes, and he was responding to the spirit that the authors and the committee had put in him accordingly. So I'd like everyone to take their seats. Please, colleagues, please take your seats in favour of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on Liberation from Military Service during the Mobilization of the Teaching Composition of Higher Education Institutions and Science Fellows, Registration Number 2620. According to the results, your honorary colleagues, the first reading I propose to vote for the basis. Based on the base. Please vote on the basis. Based on 2620. [[11:33:07]] For 283 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Next. Please, Lilia Greenevich. Lila Grinevich, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u80	I propose to vote in favour of the short deadline for preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u81	That's absolutely right. Please, there is a proposal to vote, please prepare for the preparation of the second reading by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, we support this law. Because sometimes these are nuances, then they don't work, and the law that's passed, it turns out that it doesn't make sense. By a reduced procedure, you're now working on it, and in the second reading, we're going to accept it. Please, Your Honor, please vote in favour of the proposal by Lilia Grinevich for the preparation of the draft Act in short motion. Please support this proposal. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support this proposal. [[11:34:10]] For the 250. Decision taken. Please prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. 250 national deputies supported the proposal. Dear colleagues, we now have 2 laws: registration number 2874 and 2875. These two draft laws are linked. There is a suggestion to consider them in a simplified manner and to give the floor to the author, Anatoly Matviyenko, to report two laws at once. Then the committee will report immediately 2 laws, and we will vote them in turn. Is it accepted? I would like to vote in favour of this bill for the summary procedure proposed by Anatolia Matvienka, please. [[11:35:05]] For-187 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to set an order for four minutes. What does the first deputy minister do in the Parliamentary Hall? Who said? Dear colleagues, national MP. Please report, 4 minutes, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I think we all understand the problem in our country in its resolution that we wouldn't take, that we wouldn't carry out any reforms, that we're all resisting very narrow passages, and that's the infrastructure that Ukraine today, unfortunately, is holding back in order to develop dynamically. And in this system, the infrastructures of roads are obviously the most important. We need to understand what Parliament has to do to mobilize our efforts to solve road problems. Wherever you come and whoever you're talking to today is one of the key problems. Obviously we have to deal with excises, obviously we have to figure out how to fight corruption in this area, obviously we have to figure out what we're obviously going to have to rebuild the road fund, but with the system and the funding that we have to understand that we're not going to change anything. Today, you have two bills that suggest minor changes, but as I see it, they show the necessary policy. We have to demolish everyone's efforts today to make a difference in the road. That is why we propose to streamline the possibility of local authorities and government authorities, how they could work together to solve this problem. Today, local government authorities have the right to participate in repairing roads that go through their populated areas as highways, but to do so they need to recalculate these costs in the form of subsidies to the government’s budget and then expect the state to pay for their repairs. We suggest simplifying and strengthening the rights of local authorities. I'm pointing out that our proposals are not an imperative norm. Because there are so many national MPs who are suffering over this and then the local authorities will become responsible for the state’s highways. They won't, because our proposal isn't just to write down that it's just their right, they can take advantage of that right and they can't, and we're also introducing a standard like the treaty. Therefore, if there is no contract, no one can force the local authorities to participate in the repair of the highway. But there's a lot of highways coming through the settlements today. We've decentralized the budget, we've given the local authorities today on excise goods, and especially on excise, on fuel, to get extra money. These funds are now in the local authorities. And when. In general, gas stations are on highways, and it is likely that the interested and the local authorities themselves, after repairing the road for the following year, will receive several times as much of the excise congregation. I would like to support Law 2874, which introduces this rule into two laws on road traffic and local self-government, and Bill 2875, which amends and allows local self-government authorities in the Budget Code. I'd like to vote on the basis, too, in general, if your will were to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u83	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please, head of the Transport Committee Jaroslav Dubnevich. It's also a four - minute rule, bound by two laws. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u84	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, national MPs! For your consideration, the bill (2874) proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on Roads and on Local Self-Government of Ukraine on the introduction of a mechanism for the involvement of local self-government authorities in financing the repair of public road areas on the basis of contractual principles. As a result of the discussion at the Transport Committee meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended a draft Ukrainian law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on co-financing of roads of State importance (registration No. 2874), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Matviyenko, Dubnevich and Doubbenko, as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm asking you to support this bill. It allows local self-government authorities, as stressed by the author of this bill, Anatoly Sergiyovich, to be able and able to co-finance the roads of state importance. There's a lot of cities, towns, villages, villages, the central road that runs through populated areas, is now the road of state importance. And to finance the repair of this road, you have to raise the cost to the state level. And with our amendments to the laws, it's going to be easy to co-finance and be a participant, and it's going to be a cost controller for repairing the roads of state importance. I'm asking you to support this bill. The committee's decision is also to make the decision as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u85	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need? Please, colleagues, two for, two for against, please. National Deputy Kiral, Self-Help, Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u86	Thank you! Thank you, Mr. Head. The Self-Help faction will vote in favour of this bill. Because we think we should vote for any bill that creates additional or provides additional sources of investment in infrastructure today in Ukraine. Because in times of crisis, especially in today’s difficult economic situation, it is investment in infrastructure that provides and creates jobs. And they give extra, extra benefits and extra income up, they increase the level of gross domestic product. One dollar invested in infrastructure is thought to give us $2 of additional GDP and economic development in the country. Therefore, a great request to fellow MPs to support this bill and contribute to the development of our country’s economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lensky, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Chismaru. Scissor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u89	Yuri Chizmar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u90	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. We clearly support this law, and the Radical Party believes that we should support local communities today, that we should extend the limits of their powers and the financial basis for local self-government. Because not only is the problem on the road today but there is also a problem in other areas that are underfunded by the state today. We believe that the Constitution that we are working today and the laws that will be adopted to implement it should provide for the strengthening of the financial base of local self-government in such a way that in places people alone with their own self-government will determine what they need to repair, what they need to build, where to invest money. In order for today’s Cabinet of Ministers to determine clearly how much money should be spent on the treatment of one child, on keeping the child in a garden, at school, and so forth. I think that the local communities have enough capacity and intellectual potential to do that. The budget needs to be reviewed, and accordingly this bill will be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction will support this bill. But I would like to go to the authors, I think, and to the philosophers that there's been a mistake in the title of the bill, because you can't co-finance roads, you can co-finance road repairs. We need to insert a letter. or maintenance, repair and maintenance of roads, in terms of philosophy. This will enable local communities to protect the heads of local councils from violating the Codex Budget. So the faction will support this bill. But I think we need to clarify the title of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u93	Thank you very much for the proposal for the name itself. Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u94	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group. Dear colleagues, the problem of roads today is special for Western Ukraine, for mountain resorts, this is question number one, which affects unemployment in these regions, which affects the lack of economic growth and, in general, often people's lives, because in many cases, there is no possibility of even bringing a patient from a residential area to a district hospital. It is a good thing that this year, for the first time, the Supreme Council adopted a budget programme that envisions financing roads in the Carpathian Euroregion. In addition, these bills are very important, since by this time local governments have been deprived of the funding rights of public roads that pass through their territory. Since the adoption of these bills, we have opened this road and allowed the authorities of local self-government to co-finance the necessary repairs of those roads of national importance that pass through their populated areas. And that's why I'm asking all of my fellow national MPs to support the two bills as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, people's helmet, Fatherland. And then he's going to generalize the proposals of Jaroslav Dubnevich, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u96	Of course, the reality of Ukrainian roads is now widely known to everyone, so it is not surprising that today, in the world’s quality of automobiles, we occupy 133 seats with 148, indicating a pitiful condition. But there are a few warnings. The first is that the right to voluntarily finance the repairs of road areas through villages, villages, and towns does not become compulsory co-financing because there is not enough money for public roads to make the situation worse. The other one. At least it would be advisable to establish a percentage ratio for local self-government authorities of public value repairs, particularly for the village (community) – up to 5 per cent, for the city – up to 10 per cent, so that it will be possible to adjust in some way so that the good we plan today does not turn into a good car service, as it is now, they talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Actually, colleagues, there won't be any coercion here. Because the initiator of such an event will be the territorial community itself. If the territorial community is willing to do that, they're going to motivate this story, and if they don't, they're going to take a position that they don't need it, and they're going to focus on their problems -- I'm saying from experience. Please, general, Jaroslav Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, MPs! As for the issues raised with regard to the editorial amendment in the name, these are editorial amendments we agree to correct. The very essence of the law, the changes to the law are clearly stated, which is what the capital and current repairs of roads are. So I ask all of you to uphold the law that is very important for the local communities, there is no warning, I thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, who explained before the question is just volunteering, and the right of the local community to co-finance and the local communities determine what amount of money they are willing to spend on the road that passes through their population. Thank you, and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take my seats. And I think I heard Fedoruk Mikoli Trochymovich's proposal to clarify the title of the bill. And we can make this right now when we vote on this amendment. That is, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on co-financing of road repairs of state importance. This comes out, including the text of the law itself, and to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please take your seats 2874. 2874, that's the question. And maintenance, too? And detention. Okay. Then it's called "repair and maintenance of public roads" (registration number 2874). Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on co-financing, repair and maintenance of public roads (Registration No. 2874). There is a proposal: to vote it as a basis and as a whole. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? We vote on the basis as a whole. I think it's a necessary law, let's support it. On the basis and in general, we vote 2874, on the basis and in general. [[11:50:51]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. A related draft law that we have just discussed (2875) is the draft Law on Amendments to Article 91 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Co-financing, Maintenance. on co-financing, maintenance. repair and maintenance of public roads. This draft law is reported by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, John Kulichenko. The author's report was, the report of the profile committee was -- now, there are changes to the budget code. Please, John Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, this law establishes a mechanism of interrelationship in the financing of public roads on contractual terms that pass through the territory of the inhabited area. I'm paying attention to you, dear fellows, that the road is not just passing a section, it's in a populated area and a sidewalk and lighting and traffic lights. Thus, this law allows for the maintenance of the roads of national importance in good condition. The committee considered the matter at its meeting and decided to adopt the law as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u101	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Honorable colleagues, bound by law. I think that we have already discussed and that the mechanism works – let us vote on the draft Law amending article 91 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on co-financing of repairs and maintenance of roads of national importance with the corresponding right in the name of the draft law. 2875 is based on the whole. Please prepare and support this bill. Ready? Vote? 2875 with the rights that I've made, in the name of the foundation, and we're voting in general. [[11:53:13]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, according to the information I gave in the morning before the opening of the session, there will now be a meeting of leaders of the Coalition Council, at which I formally invite the First Vice-President of the Parliament's Regulatory Committee to discuss the issue of the submission of two motions by the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inviolability of the National Deputies. Please ask the leaders of the coalition factions to assemble on the 3rd floor. And now I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor. In 12 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u102	Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our morning session. Please take your seats. As a result of the meeting that took place with the participation of the leaders of the coalition factions and the governing body of the Regulatory Committee, there are appropriate decisions. I'm going to let you know about this right now, and we're going to continue our work. I would like to inform you that there has just been a meeting of the leaders of the coalition factions, with the participation of the first deputy director of the regulatory committee, as well as the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, who is currently acting as the Attorney General of Ukraine, who has discussed the issue of the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the removal of immunity from the two national deputies. Following this discussion, I, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, gave a mandate from the second to 16th hour to the regulatory committee in accordance with Ukrainian legislation to consider, at the request of the factions of the coalition, these two issues and bring them into line with existing legislation. After that, the Head of the Supreme Council will submit these submissions to the Supreme Council for consideration in accordance with the procedure. This is a decision that has been made and I would like to ask the leaders of the coalition faction to ensure that the committee of the National Deputies that you have appointed is represented as members of this committee. Please, Your Honor, continue our work. A draft law, registration number 2844, has been introduced for your consideration. Please, Your Honor, continue to consider matters of the order of the day. 2844 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine). Reported by the national deputy of Ukraine, Halasyuk. At the suggestion of the National MP, I am voting on this issue for a reduced procedure. 2844. People's Deputies, please consider question 2844 in a simplified manner. Noisyuk. [[12:50:38]] For-141 Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The proposal to consider this draft law is considered in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of a reduced procedure. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. [[12:51:09]] For-143 Please. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please make a proposal to review the draft Law in short procedure, colleagues. Please, vote, determine. Please support the proposal of a national MP. Let's vote again, fellows. [[12:52:04]] For 155 Decision taken, thank you. Please, National Deputy Vanat, People's Front. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u103	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You are invited to consider the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine). The practical implementation of the provisions of the law in force revealed the imperfections of the laws in force. As a result of this, only a few industrial parks are in the process of being equipped, and the vast majority are virtually out of operation. By the way, there are only 12 parks in Ukraine. The proposed draft Law proposes that such changes be made to the relevant laws. Under the Industrial Parks Act, in connection with the liquidation of the Stateinvested Project, the authorized State Authority for the formation and implementation of industrial parks policy to determine the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade; to give it the right to decide on the inclusion of industrial parks in the list of industrial parks; and to increase the search period for industrial park initiators to manage the company for up to two years. Before the Earth Code. It is possible to transfer the land by renter in a suborndance to members of an industrial park without prior agreement with the owners of such an area. To the Land Rental Act. Freeing the industrial park’s managing company from paying rent for the use of the land of state or municipal property on which the industrial park was built. After making a deal with the management company. The draft law does not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine and city budgets. Dear colleagues, I propose you support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u104	Thank you. Please report to the committee head, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! Bill 2844, sponsored by Vanat, Laško, Galasjuk, Kozachenko, Romanovski, Hmil, Dombrovski, Efimov, Krivoschei, Kiral, Solvar, Dubininin, Hirschfeld, Rosenblat, Nechayev, Krivenko, Solovay, Markevich. Dear colleagues! This bill should not simply be adopted because it corresponds to a coalition agreement, not just because it is in line with the priorities of the legislative plan for reforms that have been developed under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council. This law needs to be adopted because it will allow investment in Ukraine in these critical times. Dear colleagues! When the average wage in the country is $170, when 12 million pensioners live on 70 dollars, and they survive more accurately, they beg when people come to shops just like museums, they can't buy anything there, because all the goods are imported there, and we export raw raw materials abroad. So in order for this to change, you need to create a large-scale industrialization of the country, so that raw materials can be created here, so that investments can be made, new factories can be built to pay taxes here. Dear colleagues, this amendment to the Industrial Parks Act is what they provide. They offer conditions that will allow investors to come to empty areas where there is nothing today, nothing is produced, no jobs. There will be jobs created there, there will be these parks at the expense of, including foreign investment, exports and taxes. I would like to point out that, among those industrial parks that Peter Mikhajlovich called, several of them have already received millions and millions of euros in investment in cross-border cooperation programmes from the European Union in Lviv. Sadly, though, they did not receive a penny from Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u106	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u107	We can't give a funding budget, at least we have to create attractive conditions for investing in the real economy. Because this is the real economic course that our country needs from now on to save the economy, to ensure a strong economy and to be able to index wages, pensions and ensure a normal standard of living for citizens. The committee supports the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss two in favour, two in front? Vote. You don't? It doesn't. Colleagues, please prepare. Draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Removing Regulatory Barriers to the Development of Industrial Parks in Ukraine (2844). There was a report and a report. The committee's decision is appropriate to take it as a basis, and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now. Please prepare, colleagues, to vote on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 2844) on removing regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please, 2844 on the ground. Please vote. 2844, we vote. Based on the base. [[12:59:09]] For 259. Decision taken, 259. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! The draft Act (registration No. 1865) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance" (for partial financing of sanatoriums of higher education institutions). She'll report to Ludmila Denisov. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. We are going to consider the reduced procedure at the author's suggestion. Vote. With regard to the consideration of the reduced procedure now, please. [[13:00:21]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! One of the main tasks of our country, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, is to create a condition that is effective and accessible to all citizens of health care. And especially in today's conditions, it's providing medical services to our students, future defenders of the country. It is for them that higher education institutions have created health-care facilities that support young people's health and prevent chronic diseases from getting worse and spreading. By 2015, the sanatorium is partially funded. financed by the Social Insurance Fund from temporary loss of employment. However, due to the restructuring of this fund, there are no conditions for the operation of these institutions to date. In addition, tens of thousands of students and more than 1,000 health professionals remain out of guarantees. And the main thing. Due to the interruption of funding and the actual closure, the material base of institutions with proper medical equipment is lost. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Deputies introduced a bill that establishes the right of persons who study in higher education institutions to receive health care at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund of Ukraine through partial funding of higher education institutions' sanatoriums. Allows the conservation of 50 sanatoriums of higher education institutions and the provision of more than one and a half thousand health workers. In particular, the project envisages referring to types of material security, to social services related to temporary loss of work, health care, partial financing of sanatoriums, the task of the health insurance fund, the partial financing of sanatoriums, and the right to use the funds of the fund in part such funding. What's the cost? These costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u110	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u111	That's 44 million dollars a year. We've already lost six months with you, so it's going to be less money, so you can predict that in the budget of the fund. They would rather spend money on what more than 20 million buy themselves for coffee. I very much ask you to support the bill as a whole. The committee has identified itself from social policy issues, and it also proposes to support them as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u112	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. Please two for, two for against. Colleagues, please sign up for two, two against. Please, People's Deputy Froll, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. It's absolutely necessary. It's designed to create conditions for the medical and physical rehabilitation of orphans students, students with disabilities, students with disabilities. These are primarily those institutions that are held at the expense of universities. The state needs our permission and the bill that we must now vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov. Natala Krávsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u115	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! The opposition bloc supports the bill and is also co-author of the bill. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Council is now in charge of correcting the errors of the decisions taken with the State budget. You started a social security reform. We started, but unfortunately, it's going very unprofessional today. And in principle, the social security system in the country is destroyed. We therefore insist that not only this bill be passed but that the work of social insurance funds be restored urgently. Today, June 2nd. As of 1 June, the children's recovery season had begun. I have a question: How can our children be healed this year? Because you banned social insurance funds from financing child health. Over 2 million children were cured last year. Not a penny has been allocated to this program this year. We therefore insist: urgently restore the possibility of social insurance funds to finance the recovery of children, the recovery of health facilities in sanatoriums, the restoration of the possibility of the recovery of people who work and pay social contributions. And restore the work of social insurance in Ukraine. That's enough of that. It's time to start creating, building and restoring our country from the social catastrophe it's in today. We support and ask you to solve these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Spiowakovsky, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u118	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to support this law, because now the existing system of co-financing for student health has been so advanced. Universities take over equipment, facilities, and community services. The foundation usually took over the issue of student registration and nutrition. If we don't adopt this law, 42,000 students will be left without the possibility of recovery during their studies. Dear colleagues! This is our future. There is a great opposition to the adoption of this law, we understand that. But not to find compensating mechanisms for financing student health. We cannot ignore these needs. Therefore, one of the deputies who thinks about the future of our nation will now vote in favour of this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. There's an offer. Please, Lilia Greenevich. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u120	Lilia Greenevich, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law. The point is that the fund is paying for medical care itself. Today we have a marked deterioration in the health of our students. Note that ATO veterans will also be added to them, who will also receive higher education. And these profiles -- their premises, their capabilities, their equipment -- need to be fasted in favour of the healing of these categories of students. If we don't vote on this law, the profiles will continue to decline, because higher education institutions are not able to fully support them. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u122	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I'm also really paying attention to the fact that when we adopted a budget that wasn't voted by the Fatherland faction, we banned from the Guarantee Fund to pay and participate in treatment and recovery, and not only students, but also black people, but also children. Therefore, in general, it is impossible to accept, accept, and make changes in the first reading. As for the children in the camps, it was shown yesterday that the minimum cost of resting a child in two weeks today in Ukraine was 5,000 dollars. Who can say, please, that at today’s wages and pensions, the children can be healed? And so accept only in the first reading, work on the short procedure and accept it as a whole then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, People's Deputy Birddog, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to what you and I should read before proposing bills to be adopted in general, to read the conclusions of the GNEU, in line with these conclusions, if we read, we would know that the GNEU advises us not to anticipate a selective approach that is not entirely consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. If we're offering funding to the sanatoriums of higher education institutions, we have to answer the questions, and why do other sanatoriums stay out of sight. Similarly, we fully support Mrs. Kugel's proposal that we vote on the basis of the bill. But for the second reading, we want to work on this goal so that we can have our rest, free of charge, not the rectors and the managers of the pulpit, but really the children who need additional support from the state and have no adequate rest. So let's vote only on the basis of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. Sophia Dennisov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with what the national MPs are saying about what other sanatoriums need to be supported. What's the other one? Others are companies that were previously financed by the Social Insurance Fund and their sanatoriums. We're talking about the most important thing today is our students who can go to the ATO and the others who will come from the ATO. And they're waiting for the answers to that question, are they going to be treated? So I'm proposing and the People's Front faction will support this decision as a whole, and then let's talk about the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies, I think in preparing for the second reading of this bill all the questions. all questions can be reconciled. Therefore, there is a suggestion that, according to the outcome of the discussion, a proposal should be made to accept the draft Law as a basis for cautioning the various factions. Therefore, colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote, and a proposal will now be put to the vote to support the draft Law (registration number 1865) "To amend the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance in respect of partial financing of higher education institutions' sanatoriums." Ready to vote? 1865, on a base, please vote. 1865, on a base, please vote. Based on the base. [[13:12:56]] For 247 Decision taken. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u128	Colleagues, we'll scream, we won't put.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u129	There is a proposal to prepare this draft Law for the second reading of the reduced procedure. So please concentrate, fellow believers. And I'm putting this motion to a vote for drafting this short-term bill. Please vote on the preparation for the second reading by a reduced procedure. [[13:13:49]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Two people's deputies have not arrived. Please prepare for the second read with a reduced procedure. Regarding the preparation for the second reading of Law 1865, a reduced procedure. With regard to the drafting of the bill by a reduced procedure. [[13:14:18]] For 224 People's deputies don't vote. I didn't make it, okay. Once again, please follow the reduced procedure of 1865 until the second reading. Please, let's support this proposal. We're voting in 1865 on a reduced procedure for second reading. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:14:51]] For 232 That's better. 232, decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. We didn't vote on the agenda with you. To be included in the agenda of the day session. I'm going to read another bill that needs to be included in the agenda. Number. Please concentrate and prepare for the vote. So, 2818, 2956, 2887, 2953, 2966, 2966-1, 2878, 2877, 2952, 2954, 2884, 2971, 2940, 2555. 2622 took, did not put to the vote, the author withdrew. 2795, 2373, 2639, 2680. And at the suggestion of three factions, attention: 2831, this is the draft Law on Local Elections and all the alternative laws that are involved; 2706, 2696. Next, the Fatherland faction is 2698, 2674, 2883; the Radical Party is 2980, 2895, 2951. These are the bills that we're putting into the order of the day session, colleagues, in the order of the day session. We will continue to consider them according to the procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please, let's get ready. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We're still working on them on committees. Ready? Colleagues, order of the day session. Get ready, please. Vote, Your Honor, the order of the day session we vote and support. Include questions in the agenda of the session. Vote please, Your Honor. Please. Yuri Vitaliyovich, please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[13:17:09]] For 223 Once again, the offer. Concentrate, attention! Colleagues, there were 223 votes. Let's please get into the order of the day session of those laws, all of those included, which I have announced. Colleagues, please support everyone. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:17:45]] For 214 Oleg Valeriyovich, I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now continue to vote. It's for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleague. Colleagues, joining the agenda. Yes, please concentrate. Let's ask colleagues a lot of questions. Concentrate, please, and support this inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please. Let's go, colleagues, take our seats. Take it! We vote on this proposal -- inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The committees will go. There will be a debate on the committees - express your position. What are you talking about? Please. There are many governmental initiatives and initiatives by national deputies, factions, coalitions and oppositions. Please, please, let's vote, let's support. Integrating into the agenda of the session, voting, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:19:15]] For the 220. It's better now, 220. That's better. You guys know we're not going any further. We're not leaving. We won't go any further, colleagues. Integrating in the daytime. At the suggestion of the People’s Deputies, Nichiporenko should be put to the vote three more times. And you, MP, please vote. Okay? All right, guys, let's do it again. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Prepared? Ready? Ready? Let's vote, colleagues. We vote in favour of joining the agenda of the day session. One minute. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. They turned it on and went to work. What's this all about? We've been put on committees, and the committees will determine what these laws are. Please vote, please support this proposal. For inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:20:53]] For the 220. Yeah, 220. Even better. Two more times is a hundred percent. Yes, Yuri Lucenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I propose to stop this vote, obviously there are no votes in many factions. Fifteen times, it doesn't make any sense, honestly. But also to the honourable MPs, make sure we don't even consider drafts for introduction, and they only go through committees, or we do make decisions on the Conciliation Board, which will then support the Hall. Now, please, this is a question to address as disagreeable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, I'm willing to take down anything, but why are we voting now a few times? Because we have to keep these issues under review on the committees. I'm not telling you that the law likes it or doesn't like it. We put it in the order of the session not today's schedule, not now. Next, I don't sign up for the committee, you guys are on the committee, you're not including the agenda issues in the session, it's about not including them at all. And you know that if we don't, today, my colleague's attention, tomorrow they won't be discussed on the committees. They're not going to be discussed on committees -- they're not going to be brought to the table of deputies there are tens and a half dozen government laws. So maybe we won't even work? So I would ask you once again, let me put this question to the vote one last time, you will always be able to decide on the committee's consideration of these bills in the hall. But we can't stop the process of legislation because we don't have six votes. I'm set to work. Yes, I'm set for the result, colleagues. So please, I would very much like to ask you once again to concentrate and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. And we're going to start the process of addressing these issues in committees there more, there's two dozen laws, including, I'm stressing that they're half of these laws -- they're government initiatives, government initiatives. Are you ready to vote again, colleagues? Are you ready to vote again? Yeah? I'm asking you to support everyone. Come on, colleagues, please take your seats, colleagues, for the last time I'll put the question to the vote in the agenda. Please take your seats and vote. Take your seats. Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda. Please vote. Moreover, this was agreed upon on the Conciliation Council today. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:24:25]] For 219 No votes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we're working on it, we're working on it. Draft Act (Registration No. 2229) amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Collection of Compulsory State Pension Insurance" to clarify and enforce the tax facility for payers who have chosen a simplified system of taxation (Registration No. 2229). There is a proposal by author Sergey Eutuszek, and he made a proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure, and I ask you to identify yourself. [[13:25:13]] For 184 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u132	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" on clarifying and making it appropriate for the object of taxation for payers who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. In order to achieve a single position, I would like to thank all the co-sponsors of the bill, and I would also like to thank the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Pensions, as well as the members of the committee for their operational recommendation to discuss the bill in Parliament's walls. The draft bill also takes into account the proposal of scientific and expert management and takes into account all the comments. As we know, on January 1, 2015, the Ukrainian Act of December 28, 2014 "On Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine" on Tax Reform took effect. This law, in particular, provides for the integration of two special regimes into one. Such special taxation as a fixed agricultural tax is developed into a single tax through the introduction of a separate fourth group of single taxpayers. This group includes agricultural producers. I want to, for many agricultural enterprises today, the sole tax of the fourth group is such a liability for compensation for actual costs of payment and the delivery of pensions as an insurmountable burden. In addition, it is important to note that these businesses are largely made by women, including many children, and when they go to a retirement pension that is provided for by legislation, businesses do not really have the capacity to make reparations and take on liabilities, so they will have to either shut down their activities, or they will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u133	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u134	Or they won't be able to save jobs. So I'm asking you, my dear fellows, to support this bill, because as of today, there are lawsuits and farmers' farmers are in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Drauk, will report. A report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. The bill was considered by the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions on April 22, this year. As a result of its consideration of the bill, the committee decided to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you. So I ask the Supreme Council to support this bill and to adopt it on the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign two for, two against. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected fellow national MPs! Of course, you and I have gathered here in Parliament to support our native Ukrainian village. And so when we are told today that let us sell land, for as if selling land will lead investors to agriculture, as if to improve the lives of our peasants, it is a lie, a lie, and a great lie! It's an unholy lie. Because we need to sell, not the land, but the produce we produce in our village. We need to give farmers, farmers, the tax system. Because the agricultural sector today is the only one that is the engine for the development of our country. I want to remind you that Parliament recently voted in its first reading to return VAT to farmers. And I hope that this law will be voted in Parliament as soon as possible in the second reading. For who has chosen our already miserable peasants? 24 years of independence, everyone saves the village! Everyone comes to Parliament and says how they're going to save him. But somehow after every parliament in our residential village, the village of Montenegro, the village of Volin, everything is getting worse, worse and worse! People don't have what gas they pay for, what wood they buy, what a city to look for, what to put a kid in school for! Recently, he was in Montenegro, in the Seminal region. There are no school buses to take children to school! That's why it's enough to rob our peasants. I propose to return to the people face - to - face and take on a capitalist commitment not a day without the support of the village or a day in Parliament without the laws to support the village. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u139	Igor Kononenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u140	Please give the floor to the deputy Janicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u141	Please, people's MP Janicki, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u142	Honorary colleagues, despite the fact that the bill is limited only by technological regulation, are of great importance today to Western Ukrainians and, including, in the field. Very many people, women who are many children, are at work or are at work in small agricultural enterprises. This bill is limited only by the fact that we are dealing with the issue of the delivery of pensions to places, and there is another bill that needs to be used and even passed on to women who have worked for seasonal jobs for a month or two and their pension is paid by farmers. So I ask you to support this bill and we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u145	Natalia Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u146	Respectable colleagues who are present will support the bill. But once again, we want to go to the Supreme Council Hall: let's stop making the wrong decisions and then make those decisions heroically. Let us, before making any decision, hold an expert discussion, do not mutilate people's lives today, because the six-year rule does not work, all farmers are completely distraught. And the main thing is, in the country, every day, businesses close, farmers close, people quit the self-employment that they used to live and at least fed their families. Therefore, the Opposition Unit requires that we urgently review the integrated village support programme and adopt an integrated protection programme for our national producer today. This concerns, first of all, the adoption of the Opposition Block Act on the moratorium on the sale of land. Secondly, it is to return the benefits to teachers, doctors, local self-government workers who were formerly for those living in the countryside so that a person can receive compensation for both housing and salary and a small but subsidy. You canceled it all at the beginning of the year, and now you're reaping the fruits of those thoughtless decisions that were taken six months ago. We therefore insist that an integrated programme be adopted to give people loans to the countryside, to give people a decent level of cleaning, to compensate today for the benefits and interest required and to accept a moratorium on land sales. We will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Alona Shkrum, Fatherland. Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Mr. Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u149	From the rostrum, please, Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, open support for the village is our vote with you. I want to remind you that the "Paternity" faction didn't support the amendment to the Tax Code. And I'm very glad that our colleagues today are very supportive of those bills that correct the things that we stressed that night. As far as the bill is concerned, it really is today. We've forgotten to exclude single-tax payers and they're actually paying for the Pension Fund's reimbursement of delivery and pension payments today. Of course, it's a technical bill because we forgot that we combined two taxes, fixed taxes into one. And in fact, we've actually forgotten to cancel the rule that it's those people who came out of businesses who are paying fixed agricultural taxes, today they're actually paying for the delivery and payment of pensions, except for the fifteen percent rate of their pensions. I want to remind you that there are bills that need to be voted with you today, too, this is the law (2554) on the provision of pension benefits to elected individuals of local self-government. Our faction supports this bill, and we ask every MP to support the village and the bills sent to support rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We discussed the draft Law (registration number 2229) "To the congregation on duty. on the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the "Congregation of Compulsory State Pension Insurance" concerning the clarification and the making of the subject of taxation for payers who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. Please take your seats, let's go to the vote for this bill. And a proposal was made: vote him on the basis, colleagues. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please, 2229 -- on the basis of this vote, please vote on the basis. We vote on the basis, on the basis. [[13:38:17]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. There is an offer by the author to prepare for the second reading of it by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure for the second reading. Proposal for consideration of the draft Law by a reduced procedure for second reading. [[13:38:48]] For 221 It's not a decision, thank you. Let's move on. 2026 is the registration number, the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities, on the establishment of a supplement for persons with disabilities and subgroup A. Author Alexander Trelyakov. There is an offer by the author to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:39:33]] For 171 Please report to Alexander Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! To your attention, a bill amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities is proposed on the establishment of a supplement for persons with disabilities in subgroup A. The purpose of the bill is not to reduce social assistance to the most difficult group of persons with disabilities since childhood. This is Group I of Subgroup A, after reaching the age of 18. Today, the level of assistance to the disabled child of subgroup A up to 18 years of age is 1950 bracelets. As soon as the disabled child reaches 18, the aid is reduced by almost 300 bracelets and amounts to 1,660 bracelets. But we all realize that the need for older people is only growing. Therefore, the main objective of the bill is not to reduce the amount of aid. The bill therefore proposes that social assistance be left to persons with disabilities from the age of I of subgroup A at the same level as they received up to 18 years. This will cost the State a budget of about 120 million bracelets. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that the bill can be adopted as a whole. The Anti-Corruption Committee concludes that there are no corruption factors. The Ministry of Social Policy supports the bill, but with the right to have it in force since 01.01.2016. The Committee agrees to introduce it since 01.01.2016. I would like to support this bill as a whole. 01.01.2016 - following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u153	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Yuriovich. Please have a report from the reporter and the committee, write two for, two against. People's deputy Lensky. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will certainly support this country's important bill aimed at supporting children with disabilities who reach the age of 18. God forbid, no one in the family can be a disabled child, who knows how much moral strength it takes to have, how much money to raise this child to teach it. And that's certainly why it's immoral when after 18 years, a disabled child is deprived of 300 dollars of government aid. So we certainly support this bill. But since this is an important social issue, I would like to refer again to our colleagues, to the Ukrainian Parliament on behalf of the Radical Party faction, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian women, I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to submit to Parliament a bill to allow women at 55 years of age to retire on condition that they have 30 years of experience. I call on members of the Ukrainian Parliament, most of you men here, give our women a chance to retire, give them a chance at least a little bit of how to live, if they don't have the same pension as in Europe, give them at least an opportunity to form this pension. Similarly, we insist that Parliament return to the working pensioners 15 percent of what they are now calculating, give people what they have earned. Because they worked their whole life to earn that cash pension and now they still have 15 percent. We once again report that from yesterday, due to the position of the Radical Party faction, a special pension regime has been abolished. And today, everyone gets a pension for the only legislation. That's the way it's supposed to work for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u155	Please, Olena Masorina, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u157	Ludmila Dennisov, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! I really support everything our colleagues here say that we need to raise pensions and wages. And I would like to inform you all that the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions is already working on this issue. And I would like everyone to join us so that we can really make an agreed decision on wage and pension index. It's about that bill that's under consideration right now. I am very grateful, and we colleagues from the past composition of the government, those of our national deputies who support those initiatives that have been taken by the previous composition of the government, unfortunately, have not been accepted, have not been able to accept the national MPs. So the People's Front faction will normally support this bill now. And all we really need to do is fix the entry date of January 1st, 16th. So we're going to vote on the basis and in general with this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u160	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. The opposition bloc will of course be in favour of the bill. We're in favour of giving back the benefits to parents who serve children with disabilities. Although we don't understand why this benefit should have worked since it was 16 years old, why can't it be reinstated now? What can these parents do today? We are in favour of reviewing, indexing pensions to date, and this is also an issue that requires attention to date. We are here to index wages because we understand very well that both pensions and wages remain at 1 January 2013, and prices in stores and utilities have increased and jumped incredibly, and we cannot live in these conditions, and we understand that very well. But we're talking about a friend. Because when we talked about what these problems are and what reforms are needed, we talked about the register of concessional categories of our population. And then we said, let's create this register and define what category of people who are below the poverty line requires the protection of the State and what level that State should be. Let's go on a very simple path, we've taken everyone out of the vote at night, and now everyone's heroically yelling, "Let's go back! Let's go back!" but left this basic topic to the main issue. Where's the register of concessions? Where is this category? What should be the degree of protection? How should it change in dynamics according to the level of inflation that will take place in the country? And what part of the budget should we refer to this category? Unfortunately, no one talks about it. Our bills we're talking about. That's how the Vice Speaker fixed us, and he says, "That's not the subject." We passed a bill that you said you were making, but why isn't it on the agenda? Why aren't they on the agenda? We vote 25 times on the agenda, in which there is no law of the Opposition Block. It's okay. Let us, after all, seek understanding and understand that there are things that can unite and must unite the whole country -- these are the most unprotected segments of the population, let us protect them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u161	Please, Sergey Kaplin, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u162	Sergey Kaplin, 144 constituency, Peter Dusty Block. Our faction will certainly support this initiative. However, it should be said that such laws have not been, done, or done in the life of ordinary citizens throughout the weather. Plus 300, plus 400 bucks, plus 500 even plus 1,000 doesn't solve the fate of just a citizen, a simple child. We need to take a fundamental approach today to modernizing social standards. The pension should be at least 10,000 dollars. The salary must be at least 10,000 dollars. Where do you get this money? This money should be taken from those who spoke to me. This money should be taken by taking away apartments illegally obtained by national deputies during the preceding seven calls! I have passed a bill to return hundreds of thousands of apartments that have received previous Supreme Council deputies to previous appeals. All these apartments on cave hills, each cost 500, 500,000 dollars, per million dollars! Pensions and salaries must be indexed. You know, I spent the last week in Western Ukraine. All the district centers and small cities were surrounded. I'm going to go to Central Ukraine next week. I warn the government, I warn the authorities today, I warn Parliament. People are in an extraordinary mood. If key social issues are not resolved by summer, people are willing to walk from all parts of Ukraine, thousands of people, and demand the resignation of the government, demand new elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a number of places to carry out a real anti-oligaric revolution in the country! If they don't, they'll pull us out of here by the skin, drive us to Lobanowski Street Stadium and shoot us there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u163	I've only got one. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u164	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, put your hand on your heart and say 99 percent care for women with disabilities. These are women who have no internships who have spent their entire lives saving their own child. And it's the other half if you haven't betrayed her. And for today, by paying them a penny, for which it is impossible to live a week, in deciding on a budget that the Fatherland faction has not voted on, and we have not voted on the pension taxes to cancel them now, we are talking about having a budget surplus, we have no right to adopt this law as of 1 January 2016. We should vote it right after signing and seriously increase it. I'm reminding you again of the numbers, listen. In fact, in the prices of April, the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs, i.e. those with disabilities, should be 1822.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u165	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u166	It has to be 1822 bracelets, and today it's 949. We are now violating 50 percent of the standard under the Constitution. This is a disgrace! And that's why we vote in the first reading, but with our rights to the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u167	Thank you. I'd like to answer the member of the Opposition Block about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bills that we voted on today, and we weren't included. Draft Law registration number 2966-1, National Deputy Martovicki. Is this yours? Well, the law was prepared by your faction, a member of your faction. So you said no law, well there's only two tens of them. Vote, colleagues? Please, we have discussed the bill's draft registration number 2026. The draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Children and Children on the establishment of a supplement for disabled persons in Group A of Sub-Group A with a proposal made by the Ministry and agreed with the committee, i.e. in effect from 1 January 2016, lays the groundwork. On the basis and in general, respected colleagues? Because there were different thoughts on this point. [[B in m in s a l in]] So look. There's an offer. Committee head, please, Alexander Trelyakow. Alexander Trelyakov, general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u168	The Committee's proposal: on the basis and in general. This has been supported by all members of the Committee who are members of various MP factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m0.u169	So let's not do improv. There's a proposal: with the committee's right on the ground and in general. Amendment of the Committee, January 1, 2016 Colleagues, I put it to a vote, we decide. Vote, please. Please support on the basis of 2026 as a whole. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote on the basis and as a whole with the amendment of the committee. [[13:53:46]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we are now scheduled to hold a meeting of the Committee. At 2 p.m., we finish the work and the morning session. I'd like to inform you that tonight's meeting will begin at 4:00. And now the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
