ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! People's deputies are requested to enter the Supreme Council Hall, prepare for the vote, before we begin our work. Please take your seats. Honorable colleagues, while national deputies are preparing for registration, have a few words about the question of the appointment of judges. I am extremely grateful to the public, who carefully analyzes those lists of judges that were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of judges. Today, we have a lot of information about people who actually stained their reputation and there are many questions. In particular, I would like to thank the Ukrainian Security Service for the reliable information regarding even some of the judges who, honourable colleagues, took the side of the enemy during the occupation and were still on those lists today. He once again became convinced that the proposal to involve the public in this matter and the openness of this process is absolutely effective. And more than that, I don't think we're going to allow any possibility with you to be assigned judges who have, like, a stained reputation. Everyone will know who it is, how it will be appointed, who will vote. I am convinced that we have enough information today to prevent the appointment of those who have discredited themselves. When we vote, we'll go through every candidate and it'll be completely public. We've got a rough week. We have to look at a number of issues and socialities, and the military plan, the energy sphere, the visa-free regime. The issue of amendments to legislation regarding antitrust issues, the issue of gas costing, the question of rent. So a complex of questions is extremely important. So I invite everyone to a quality job. Once again, I want to call on factions and groups to ensure that factions and groups are present at plenary meetings so that we can work effectively. Yesterday, I would like to inform you that the Board of Education Reforms has done well enough. I can say that reform is actually ready. It's nice that both the ministries and the committee of parliament and the expert environment are almost the only ones in the way of carrying out this reform. I said, I think you'll be able to help us in the first sessions in November determine a day or two, how long it will take to look at education in a comprehensive way, create a quality system where our children get quality education, and our teachers get a decent salary. This is absolutely possible. As we discussed this yesterday, there are a lot of issues that we can settle with you in legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please turn on the "Council" system for registration, please. Get ready for registration. Let's register. [[10:06:18]] 295 National Deputies in the Hall. I declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open this morning. Today, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions. Please get the factions ready to write the performance. I would also like to ask your esteemed colleagues to examine the issue agreed upon at the Conciliation Council on matters for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. There is a question of making changes to the Rules of Procedure for second reading electronically. In fact, everything remains, all the procedures are valid, the only thing we're introducing is the electronic documentation. And a number of other issues, including government bills, including those relating to the visa-free regime. Please, Your Honor, register with the factions. Honorable colleagues, factions and groups have been recorded. From Peter Prashenko's Block, please, Irina Heratchenko. Please. 30 minutes for performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In a few hours, a triangular contact group and four subgroups will begin their next round of work in Minsk. And it will take place after the very important bilateral talks of the President of Ukraine, which he made as part of his visit to New York, where the United Nations General Assembly held its anniversary session, and after the Paris meeting. And the theme of the Paris meeting remains the focus of all politicians, but unfortunately, very little is right and very much speculation. And that's why I'd like to stop what really happened in Paris. First, fellow Parisians, the Paris meeting is just one of many meetings that took place in Berlin or in Minsk in February 2015, aimed at one where world leaders have taken a very clear stand of pressure on the Russian Federation to implement the Minsk Accords and to carry out all their unconditional influence on the militants in order for them to implement the Minsk Accords. What became the main summary of the Paris meeting? In Moscow, of course, threats and pressures were calculated to raise bets and force Ukraine to go to its challenge. Because there are no fighting scenarios, it's an exclusively Moscow scenario. But thanks to the diplomatic forces of Ukraine, the Ukrainian delegation was able to say no to such issues. First. "No" is to review the changes to the Constitution in the question of decentralization; "no" is to adopt a new law on the special order of local self-government and to ensure that it is valid for the choice of the legitimate authority of the region; "no" to adopt a new special law on local elections in a temporarily occupied territory based on positions that conflict with Ukrainian legislation; "no" to adopt a new law on amnesty and "no" to end the conflict at Donbassa. "No" is to set up a direct dialogue with criminals, who for a year and a half, under the direction of the Kremlin, are blackmailing Donbas; "no" is to agree to a fair fight. I hope that today Parliament will finally accept the right statement, and we will hear an appropriate statement from Russian-controlled fighters about the inadmissibility of such elections. And "no" is to give up sanctions against the aggressor country. Instead, we have received the world's clear support for the fact that the OSCE will finally have access to all the territory controlled by the militants and thus to the territory of the border. The long - awaited withdrawal of foreign troops will begin. In turn, local elections will take place according to OSCE standards. And what's very important is that in these elections we really have to take Donbas's voice into account, and Donbas's voice is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u3	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u4	Donbasu's voice is not "gavi" and it's not "bike" and it's not the FSBs that captured Donbas today. These are hundreds of thousands of immigrants, real patriots of Ukraine who have the right to vote in the Donbas elections, to choose and to be elected, and that's exactly what you and I in the Supreme Council have to see through. What's very important, colleagues, is that the weapons of small calibre have already begun to be used as weapons of heavy calibre. And it is very important that the activities of international humanitarian organizations should return.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u5	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno. Irina Volodymyrna, there's the Rules, I understand. Thank you. Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen! The war will end only when the Ukrainian state is strong politically, economically, and socially. And then we will not listen to the Parisians, nor norms, nor other fours, nor fear the enemy. In order for this to happen, we have formed a coalition with you -- this coalition has failed, we have stayed as a faction in the coalition, setting you and yourself, honourable coalitions, a number of conditions. The first condition, and it's very important, is the Attorney General's Office. Without this institution, the country can't get out of corruption. The Attorney General's resignation is the most important thing today. It's not about the person again, it's about the system! The second thing is the court system. If the President and the Head of the Supreme Council want to change the Constitution, let's change one line, change over a period of 9.5,000 judges, and the first three hundred have to retire in February and after our vote. Are we looking for pension money? The money is at the customs office, to this day the DFS and Kabmin took no steps to take it from customs, not even a letter to the British ambassador and the Prime Minister. And, for the last time, the tariffs: we're pounding like a fish on the ice of the ground, and Kabmen hasn't shown us how he's counting the fares to this day. Because he doesn't know, he's counting them in the sky so that people's pockets can reduce money and owe Naftogazu to someone they don't know. And last for all of us: the parliamentary procedure is a guarantee of Ukraine's freedom and power. We made decisions today, more faithfully yesterday, we certainly will not vote in favour of any country's most needed decisions, I emphasize the most needed country of decisions if they do not go through the procedure in Parliament: committees, agreement and everything else. And don't blackmail, please, the country, the war, the Kremlin and others. The procedure in Parliament is a guarantee of the stability and development of this state. The solution is final and irreversible in Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u7	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable compatriots! Our country's main problem is that the authorities are constantly lying to society and to citizens. The government lies about reforms and the fight against corruption. Similarly, the authorities lie about war and peace negotiations. In the international arena, one is arranged, and the Ukrainians are told differently. Let's remember, just recently, President Poroshenko had convinced society that there was no special status for Donbas in the changes to the Constitution. Instead, we hear German Chancellor Merkel's statement on October 2nd in Paris that the negotiations agreed to grant special status to Donbas and to establish special status for Donbas in the Constitution. So where's the truth? What do people in Ukraine say, or what they say at the Paris talks? Next. President Prashenko has repeatedly assured them that murderers and fighters will never receive amnesty and will never be forgiven. The last time he spoke about it was at a parade on Independence Day in Ukraine. On Friday in France, François Alland, French president, says that all terrorists and militants have amnesty and immunity. President Porcelain, following Alland, repeats, underlining, literally, the quote of Dusty, "that all fighters will receive amnesty without exception." Including those who killed our fellow citizens, who shot the prisoners, who forced their pursuits, torn from their prisoners of war. That's why the Radical Party has been insisting every time over the past year that the Minsk Accords are a mine of slow action under Ukraine. And when we're told that there's no alternative to the Minsk Accords, we say there's an alternative. The alternative is the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, which guaranteed us integrity and integrity in exchange for nuclear weapons. So let the guarantors who signed the memorandum fulfill their commitments 20 years ago to Ukraine. In fact, today the implementation of the mine scenario, which was continued in Paris, is a cancer tumor that Putin implements into the body of Ukraine, which will then metastasize and destroy the entire living organism called the state of Ukraine. Therefore, the Radical Party demands the power of the issue of the future country does not have the right to decide commercial and cowardly policies, which is the sovereign right of the Ukrainian people. That's why we're asking the question of special status for Donbas, the issue of amnesty for militants to put on a national, all-Ukrainian referendum and let the people determine the future of the country and the place of this lying power in our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u9	Bondar Victor Vasilovich, team of Rebirths.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, my dear colleagues, many words have been well spoken in this room about European values, about how democratic elections are to take place, about how we love and respect voters and what we do to ensure that they have a full choice of political parties, opportunities and so on. We've seen how the pro-power coalition voted to amend the Elections Act, to ask about gender equality, to have 30 percent of the lists given to women, then not to make those decisions, then to cover themselves up with the courts, and so on. But it's a trifle of electoral legislation against what's actually going on today. In fact, the worst times are coming back when the decision of the government can be taken off the whole party, the whole faction, the non-registration of the lists, and so on. So where is democracy in this country? Where are European values? We're paying attention to the fact that the Dnipropetrov party is putting out candidates, not registering the entire list. At the same time, we are putting forward a candidate for the mayor of the city, a respected man, a deputy mayor of the city who, 20 years ago, gave his life to the city, Mr. Anatoly Krupsky, is not registered either. The decisions of the courts regarding the need to register are not carried out. At the same time, clones, doppelgangers are called, the Ukraine Rebirth Party is automatically registered without any restrictions. Mr. Krupsky, a doppelganger, registers in five minutes, and no one even asks what declarations he has and so on. They're looking for reasons not to register the most influential people in Dniproperty, the most influential party. At the same time, we're seeing "The Rebirth of Ukraine" put on the field the head of Mr. Kucin's district list, which has nothing to do with Dnipropetrovska, the boy of 1972, from Ternopolska, and he's never seen that area. And our nominee candidate, the head of the most powerful ferro-floating enterprise in the area, the most respected person in the area doesn't register, the lists of people don't register, the courts don't make decisions. So I turn to the faction of a dominant coalition: look at the work of the commission. The commission's chairman is from the Dust Block, the commission's secretary is from the Opposition Block. Is it a democracy not to register people even after the court's decision has been made?Oh, my God! The same situation in the Odessa region. No 27 candidates registered. The reason for this is that there is no data in the biography, there are no comas there, there is no declaration of a child born in 2015, and there is no declaration of 2014. That's democracy today. Give the commands, let your men vote on the committees. And the last. We have repeatedly said that one and a half million people -- Ukrainians, refugees, immigrants from the DNP/LNR -- do not have the right to vote. Let's put to the vote Law 2501, so that they have the right to vote and win.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u11	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u12	These are the people who confirmed their choice. They didn't run to Moscow, they didn't run to Russia, they didn't stay in DNR, they came back to Ukraine, they work here, they create jobs here, they make money and they pay taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u13	Please, Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Opposition Block welcomes the decision to leave weapons at 100 millimeters and to hold elections in Ukraine. in the territory of Donbas under Ukrainian law. This makes it possible to put an end to armed opposition and opens the way for political settlement. Parliament's task is to support international decisions and adopt laws within the framework of the Minsk Agreements in order to avoid the frozen conflict in these areas. The situation in areas bordering the conflict zone remains extremely difficult. People stayed on top of each other with their problems, without help and compensation for the ruined housing. This is a very painful issue that the authorities have to solve in the short term, and it is urgent to help people get compensation from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund for housing. However, reconstruction is needed by the whole country, unfortunately, in terms of economic development, job creation has never become a priority for the government, despite loud statements. Unemployment is rising, businesses are stopping. We believe that Parliament should focus on the economic recovery programme and move away from politics and empty political slogans. We need to focus on people’s concerns — unemployment, tariffs, social security index, and the abolition of the pension tax. The decision to continue the moratorium on land sales is needed. And the last. We have entered the electoral campaign, the authorities have lost confidence in the people, so they use administrative resources, bribes, provocations, pressure on MPs to hold on somehow. In addition to political raids, pressure on MPs, banning party registrations, there has been a shameful phenomenon, a raid on church temples. We believe that the people are wise, confident that they will give an assessment of this authority in the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u15	Please, People's Front, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u16	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I just got back from the county. And I can say that what we took with you in September of this year, which is a change to the budget, which provides for higher salaries for budget workers and about 80 more types of social pay, is already in effect. Payments increased from 13 percent to 19 percent. And I can tell you in a responsible way that people already get this money. Finally, the next question is, we're about to start the heating season. And the government has accumulated more than $1.3 billion to go through it. I want to assure our citizens that they will be warm in their homes. But we have to start reforming the gas market at last. I would like to remind you that since October 1st, a reform of the gas market started in Ukraine, namely: Ukraine's Gas Market Act has been in force, which strengthens the economically sound approaches established in the European Union to the organization of the gas market. And this should make the Ukrainian gas market more transparent and closer to consumers. Ukraine has already freed itself from its gas dependence on Russia. Up to 70 percent of the gas we buy in Europe by direct supply. Now gas is purchased through direct and transparent contracts. The next step is to increase energy efficiency and the economy of gas. Because for 20 years in the country, we haven't started reforming the gas market, we've spent over 20 billion dollars. Think about it: $20 billion went into the air. But in order for the reform of the gas market to work properly and, according to our needs, we need to make changes to a number of Ukrainian laws. Today is the day-to-day bill that we have to bring into line with legislation with the already in force Law on the Gas Market. These are Bills 3072, 3073, 3074. This is a change to the Tax Code, the Customs Code, to a series of legislative acts. The People's Front faction supports all these bills. We propose to vote for a reduced procedure and a package. I'm asking my colleagues to support this. Another major bill of today's agenda is Bill 2352, which is about reducing rent on gas, a government bill. We call on coalition members to support this bill. And I'm talking to some political parties, not to use it as a pianist before the local elections. The fact that this rostrum is already being used has been seen in today’s performances. Thank you to colleagues for their support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, Jaroslav Moskalenko, the "Will of the People" Group. I would like to inform you, in accordance with the decision of the group, that Jaroslav Moskalenko is the leader of the People's Will Group in Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u18	The noble Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The country remembers that a few days before the new year 2015, MPs at night adopted the budget for this year, making proposals and amending the law by writing them on their knees. It seems that Kabmin is preparing a similar scenario for Parliament this year. The government was to submit a government budget in early September. Formally he did, but immediately he called it off. That's the same scenario we went through last year. And as a result, we've been patching holes for a year. We're told there's no draft budget because tax reform is not ready. Dear colleagues, let's tell people the truth. With tax reform, we're already late. The Parliamentary Group "The Will of the People" is calling on the government to immediately submit the 2016 State Budget to Parliament for consideration so that MPs can work it out qualitatively and give all the answers to social challenges. "The will of the people" is mostly made up of major MPs. And we don't know all the problems of the community and the problems of the people. We see these problems directly. And this is happening at a time when there's almost 50 billion dollars left in a single treasury account. As a result, I have questions. Gas tariffs. Why do we all pretend that we don't notice that Naftogaz is getting profits by selling gas to the Ukrainian population. If there's a report from the task force on tariffs, report to Parliament, we'll react. If there's money in the state, let's lower the tariffs. In addition to this gas situation, another thing that people expect is a virtual power outage due to a lack of coal. And on the one hand, the Department of Fuel and Energy assures us that there will be no such disconnection. On the other hand, there are announcements in the districts, particularly in Kiev, where the number of the Ministry’s order number 456, refers to the suspension until October 1, 2016. And where there's a six-hour schedule per day, people are going to get this disconnection. With regard to wage raises and pensions, what has happened is not indexation, but there is a simple small allowance from the state to minimum pensions and salaries for individual budgeters. Because indexation is always at the inflation level. Inflation is 50 percent, and we've given the allowance 10 to 13 percent. The "will of the people" MP already demands that the government respond immediately and make appropriate proposals to Parliament for changes to the 2015 budget. We're talking to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u19	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u20	We address everyone without excluding the national MPs to deal with issues that really concern people is consolidated. This depends on the lives of the Ukrainians, who did not choose us to keep our seat belts on them without changing for the benefit of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u22	Good afternoon, everyone! I would like to begin with what is going on over a month of fighting for fair tariffs in Ukraine. I now have in my hands the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was in contravention of the Constitution, contrary to the Law on the Wholesale Market of Gas adopted by the Government, and in manual mode they are today trying to regulate prices, including for people, for the gas population, and for the heat. What's so interesting? That at a time when we're all fighting for Ukrainian gas to be given to people, at that time the government is issuing a decree that breaks all of this and says that in the internal market we have to sell gas at import gas prices. This violates all parameters and all the proportions that have been in Ukraine in all previous years. And now the question is, who's going to figure out what import price to compare the cost of gas inside Ukraine? I have a document in my hands right now, along with market quotations, that along with the coming of this government, I have a company called "Trail Stone," which is presented by Ukrainian citizen Paul Levin, who has a direct bearing on the leadership of NAC Naftogazu. And under strange circumstances, it is this company that sells imported gas in Ukraine that is more expensive than even catting the stock market. So the question is, what kind of corruption will these new government decrees cover and the price of gas for the population that is equal to imported gas? So we're initiating a few things. First and foremost. Today, a bill that has not been considered for five months will be considered in the Supreme Council Hall. It's a bill by the Fatherland on the reduction of the wage on gas production. This will, absolutely correctly, lead to the adoption of this law to increase the production of Ukrainian gas, to reduce dependence on Russia and, of course, to lower tariffs on gas for people and for tariffs on heat. But there is another document. Unfortunately, this decree destroyed both the tradition and the law that provided for the transfer of Ukrainian gas to the population. Therefore, we demand that this provision be renewed in the law. And the third. We demand the immediate establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into corruption in NAC Naftogazi, which lays on people's tariffs. And so if we have the will to deal with corruption, we act together, and the tariffs are normal for people. Corruption can be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. As you can see, there are a number of issues in the agenda to be included in the agenda of the day session and to take decisions during the current plenary week, namely: the draft Law on Amendments to the Rules (registration No. 3207). What does he give? It allows for a second reading to be done electronically. So it saves real money, paper and everything, so it's already part of an electronic parliament. But the standard procedure, if there's a MP's desire to get paper, will be saved. So there's absolutely no breach of procedure here. The next question is the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (for the immediate consideration by the courts of an action for forced discharge or detention for the purpose of identifying and ensuring the forced removal of aliens and persons without citizenship or ensuring the transfer of aliens and stateless persons in accordance with international readmission agreements). Then Bill (3155) on Amendments to the Refugee Act of Ukraine. Ukraine's Law (3171) Draft Act amending Ukraine's Civil Procedure Code to establish birth or death in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. Draft Act on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine (for the activities of military and civil administrations). And the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes. I would like to emphasize once again that these are the laws that are proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session and to consider them at this plenary week. The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for terms of pretrial investigation) (registration number 3197). Here's the deal. To adopt and include these bills, some of them are, by the way, and to implement a plan of action on the visa-free regime. To include in the agenda of the day session with a view to considering it, these issues, in this plenary week. So, dear fellows, this proposal will now be put to the vote. I ask that people's deputies prepare for the vote to be included in the agenda of the session and that they decide for the current plenary week on the issues listed above. Part: visa-free treatment, irreparability of punishment for serious crimes, introduction of electronic parliamentary elements to prepare for second reading of electronic materials. And please support this initiative. Please take your seats, dear fellows! Please prepare for the day-to-day vote and decision-making on the current scheduled week of issues that I have announced. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? There will be a signal vote now, please support this proposal. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We vote (signal vote) to include in the agenda of the day issues that I have announced, sessions for consideration in this plenary week. Please be supportive. Signal vote, please stand by. [[10:38:32]] For-167 We're not ready yet, I understand, to ask that question. This question doesn't need to be included in the agenda of the day session, we'll get back to it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First reading, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (to clarify the terms of military service by contract) (registration number 2356a). The author is Ukrainian national deputy Tetjana Czarovol. Or is it. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft Law by a reduced procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. The author's proposal for a reduced procedure. [[10:39:25]] For-138 The offer did not find its support. Please, 2356. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u24	This is the decision of the Supreme Council now most needed by the front. The thing is, in September, the demobilization started. But those who have had the most difficult year of war, many would like to continue in the ministry, would like to sign a contract. But today’s law provides an opportunity to sign a three - year contract. And there is a great need now to vote on changes that would allow for short-term contracts to be signed. So the people who are demobilizing now, they want to sign contracts for six months, and this bill gives them that opportunity. This is what the whole country needs right now. Because those who protected our country this year, the most difficult year, have gained invaluable experience. And we're extremely interested in some of them staying on the front and teaching recruits to mobilize. Therefore, I very much ask you to support this bill. He needs it very urgently. He was supported by both the Mini-Defense and the Genstab. I'll even say that this bill was born in the field. The military themselves asked for it. In August they asked them to accept these changes to the law so that they could sign short - term contracts for six months. I also ask that this law be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Because people are still waiting. Many have already demobilized, but he is not specifically looking for a job because he expects the Supreme Council to give him this opportunity, and he can continue to protect our state on the front. So I very much ask the Supreme Council to move away from all very important matters and to support this bill, which is most needed by the front. This is the small but very important thing that our session hall can do for the front right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u25	Thank you. Please write down the questions and answers for three minutes. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the law is extremely simple, and there is nothing to discuss. We're just allowing us to contract military service contracts today on a six-month contract. Because today the law provides for much longer terms and very large volumes of people who are demobilized today, it doesn't want to make, for example, a five-year contract, so we allow commanders today, we include such a legislative rule that allows us to make contracts for six months today. At least 15,000 demobilized people today can return to the front, return to our military forces, return to our borders. These are the people who have passed the ATO today, the people who have been through the war, they have experience, and we, as legislator, are obliged to do our utmost to bring these people back today to protect our borders, to protect our independence. All factions, please, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. It was a support speech, there was no question. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u28	Thank you to the authors for the bill. The only little detail, why 6 months? Which one? The motive, how did it count that this term would be acceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u29	The motive, first of all, is the desire of the military. It is also extremely important that we give the standard that from the 11th, or military officer who has served for 11 months, has the right to sign this short - term contract. So that's not how mobilisation is imposed, that is, those people who first go into mobilisation, they don't have the right to sign such a short-term contract, they go for a year. If you have served 11 months, you have the right to sign a six - month contract, this contract will continue automatically with the consent of the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, last question, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u31	Mrs. Tetjano, I think the session room is backing up, because today everyone understands that we need a professional army of those people who are consciously, ideologically and convincingly defending Ukraine. But I think, and do you support such a thesis that in ideologies, financing, strategies for the formation of a contractual professional army, we would have to move in a single complex: The Ministry of Defense, the RNB, the Supreme Council, because it seems that we're just putting a segment into the contractual army system. So far, I haven't heard the actual funding. They say, "Well, that's very expensive." And how expensive, how expensive, nobody knows. So, questions. Shouldn't we set up such a coordination or working group on the contractual army formation system in a triangle called the Parliamentary Committee, the Ministry of Defence, the LRA and all interested bodies?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u32	Thank you for the offer. Of course, it's very important for us to work on this key, but we can't delay or make this fragmented decision right now, it's extremely necessary. Once again, that's what it takes to defend the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u33	Thank you. Question-answer time's up. For the co-report, I invite the head of the profile committee, Sergei Pashinsky. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u34	Good afternoon, Your Honour, presiding lord, good afternoon, colleague. The law presented does not really cover the entire defence and security segment, but it is very important today. The author of the law, Tetjana Crnovol, pointed out that the demobilization of the last year is currently under way. Many are willing to stay for a short period of time. Why is it important to involve these people? First of all, these are people who have combat experience. Secondly, the people we are about to call are huge financial costs for material security, for their training, for their adaptation to service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. As for the situation of the contractual army, the situation in general regarding the reform of the Armed Forces. Thanks to our work, including ours, we have done tremendous work to strengthen our defenses. So many bills, so many important decisions we've made in the last year as our army, we haven't made in the last 24 years for our army. But, dear colleagues, the contractual army, it must be a professional nucleus. And in parallel, we need to understand that we need to have a mobilization resource, a mobilisation reserve. That's why we're about to start the call, and I'm paying attention to the fact that we've adopted a law that prohibits applicants from sending them to the ATO area, but that's what we're doing with this same mobilisation reserve. According to our calculations, we have a first-line mobilization reserve of at least half a million men. That's why we're not going to be doing another mobilization wave right now, but we have to understand that in the case of the Russian Federation's massive aggression, we're going to be one contractual army, one professional army, we're not going to hold this aggression, and that's all, by the way, that's all that's clear to everyone, and that's not more than that. The contract army is no more than the core of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Of course, we have to make a contractual army. And when we're talking about a real contractual army, we need to understand that the salary should be at least, for a regular warehouse, 8,000 dollars, for an average officer's warehouse: mouth commanders, brigade commanders, for professionals at least 15, with all the payments, with the allowances, it should be between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars. Today we can't afford the whole army, and that's over 200,000 people, to provide that kind of pay. But in that budget where you and I are going to be looking at this room for a while, there's definitely going to be answers to these questions, there's going to be this part of the contractor, because, no doubt, all the military personnel involved in the use of complex technology, for example, tank mechanics drivers, BMWs, BTRs, and the operation of PSPs and all that sort of thing. These should be professionals and contractors. I ask the factions to invite their deputies to the hall and vote in favour of this law on the basis and, I emphasize, in general. This is one phrase that, in fact, I would like to emphasize, allows people who have served at least 11 months to conclude a short-term contract. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u35	Thank you for the report. Please, three minutes of questions to the reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u36	Then they want to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u37	Andrew Antonishtak, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u38	Good afternoon. I don't really have any questions. The law is very right and very timely. Sadly, today’s realities force us, especially the laws of the military, to bring us from the scenes. Because this hybrid war launched by the Russian Federation makes us make all new and new adjustments. And it's true, when you talk to your colleagues at the National Guard, that most people aren't ready to sign contracts for a year or three years. So I think a six-year contract is the optimal one that can be signed. I'd like to invite a colleague from all factions here. This is not a political law. This is a law for people who protect our nation. Therefore, it is clear in this room that we should vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u39	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u40	Please, National Deputy Novak Natalia Vasilovna, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u41	Yes, I want to say that as soon as the military went into effect, I went to Turkinov in 2014 and asked to enter into short-term contracts for six months and a year. We're finally going to have this rule, and I welcome it. The only thing I'd like to ask is the terms of the contract. As far as the law is concerned, contractors are not protected. As soon as the military action stops, the contract can be terminated immediately. Because it's a contract. counts for six months, unsecured. That's the first one. Contract termination terms, you have a question. And the second question. Still, it's a payday. Today we have patrols, patrols get 8,000. A contractor or a soldier can't get less. That's why I think, along with the adoption of this law in the budget, we need to anticipate the funding for the worthy payment of contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. It's number one. The terms of the termination of the contract are what they were. We're in this, we're not changing legislation. We simply complement this standard with those who are mobilized or who serve in the name of the pageant. As for the increase in wages. I've already spoken in my speech, and I strongly support you, and I believe that the core of the Ukrainian Armed Forces must be professionals, contractors, military personnel who have a decent salary. That's why I'm asking your attention and asking for your support in advance for next year's budget review, we're going to report this issue and I'm hoping to find support in the hall. The next year is projected to be a significant increase and actually a comparison of those salaries with those you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dusty Block. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, one of the main elements of the formation of a strong army, everyone knows it's a transfer of experience. In particular, the fighting experience acquired by the people on their skin reportedly felt that it was Russian aggression. That's why the Petra Prashenko faction will unanimously support this bill. And I want to ask all my colleagues in the room to really support each other in one way or another. Because it's extremely important to our army today, especially from the point of handing it over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, from factions and groups is there a need to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! Let's focus and vote for the basis and for the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u47	There's been an offer, honourable colleagues, to vote in favour of this bill. Is there no objection? There is a proposal to stop the discussion and move to a vote in favour of this important draft law on defence. Please specify how to write a phrase from a faction. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I also support the need to adopt this bill. Once again, I stress the need for systematic and coordinated work on the formation of the new Ukrainian Armed Forces. I think each of you will receive very many letters and references regarding the various segments of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I don't know what personnel changes have been caused by the Ministry of Defense regarding the deputy who represented the Ministry of Defence here in Parliament. But I can tell you that by the level of contempt and cynicism in terms of the boys and officers who serve, I'm putting the Ministry of Defense at the top of my response. Because I'm addressing, let's say, the position that concerns the award of our heroes. For example, I used Hersonian helicopters. Two answers to me. The first answer, they said it wasn't a topic at all. In the end, thank God, the boy who died was rewarded with death. The rest of it, wounded there, hit something else there, doesn't interest the Ministry of Defense. I'm writing the second letter. The second letter comes to me and they say, "You know, we've analyzed six months, half of them don't serve anymore. Now it is necessary for the district executive authority to give. We can't pass. And those who serve, we'll think, maybe we'll give them." I was with the President's Administration. The noise was up, too. I say, how? This Ministry of Defense has given you heroes to reward. Picked up all the paperwork, the Ministry of Defense shows up for another six months, and it hasn't filed a single file. I have a question, so what do the generals at the Ministry of Defense do there? If you reward boys who protect the country, they can't serve a year. So I am absolutely convinced that soldiers and officers alone in the ATO cannot protect the Ukrainian state. If there's no reform in the Ministry of Defence, if there's no logic for making decisions, if there's no day and night, if they don't think about how to make money on arms and on the purchase of goods or property, then the normal system will come out. So I think maybe things are delicate. Maybe in a closed mode or another way, well, the key question is, listen to what the Ministry of Defense has done for a year as money is used. I'm tired of voting in the dark. They come to us: the army is dying, let's get another 5 billion. And that five billion is not enough again! So let's talk about where the billions, where the money that grandparents give up. So, I'm convinced that the biggest problem of the Ukrainian army so far is the leadership of the Ukrainian army. Without professionals and patriots showing up there, until there are people who will hurt for every soldier, we will have no army. So also, I think it's necessary to have a strategy and form a professional contractual army. That's our year's renouncing: and he said that's a lot, expensive and so on -- the second year's already coming. So what we're voting today is for two months it's going to solve the issue. So we vote on the bill and we think about how to form the Ukrainian army.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u49	Please, Deputy People's Republic of River Andriy Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Timoshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u51	Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u52	Guys, come on, without too much populism, let's just talk about the essence of the law. I hate war, but I went after it because I had to defend my country. I dreamed of the day when this war would end with our victory, in order to return to my beloved family as soon as possible. The possibility of signing a 3-year contract, waiting for the war to end in a month or two. She would certainly scare me away from signing such a contract. And there are a lot of people like me. So we're actually reducing the term from three years to six months. And whoever wants to sign for six months, and whoever loves, for example, the army and wants to serve in it, has to sign a three - year contract. But like me, let me sign for six months so that we can get home as soon as possible right after we win. That's it, it's very simple. Please support all this law and do not be intimidated by three - year contracts. There are so many like me. Not everyone likes the army service, and not everyone accepts to be in the army of some smug commander. I was fortunate to have had a commander whom we obeyed, especially out of love and respect for him. Not so lucky. And so, once again, I ask you to uphold all the laws in the first reading and in general. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Colleagues, there is a proposal to go to the vote for such an important bill. Is it accepted? Supported by Deputies? I can even see about the recording. Please prepare for the vote, take your seats, dear colleagues. Draft law (registration number 2356a) Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of Ukraine (to clarify the terms of military service by contract). Colleagues, an important law of defense that applies to military personnel. You have heard enough arguments about the need to uphold this law, including by military personnel. So please, colleagues, let's take our seats. Please. There is a proposal, my fellow Members, to vote on the draft law, according to the committee's decision, on the basis and in general. Please take your seats. We vote, colleagues, on the basis of and as a whole of the draft Act 2356a amending the Law on Military Duty and Military Service of Ukraine (to clarify the terms of military service by contract). We vote, Your Honor, I ask you to support this important bill as a whole. Vote, please. [[11:01:59]] For 253 The bill was passed, to be precise. Thank you, Your Honor. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for specific issues of improving the security of military prosecutors) (Registration No. 2967). On specific issues, improve the provision of services to the Military Prosecutor’s Office. reports Sergey Pashinski. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please note that the draft law is being reviewed by a reduced procedure, Pashinsky. As for consideration of the simplified procedure of the draft law, colleagues. [[11:02:51]] For 165 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we all see that, unfortunately, I emphasize the word, unfortunately, but in organs like the military prosecutor's office, it is now an extremely important system for the administration of our state. The number of issues faced by the military prosecutor's office can be traced back from the media, from the speech of the chief military prosecutor. We all understand that, unfortunately, even with the establishment of a truce, this fragile one, the problems faced by the military prosecutor’s office, they have never shared and more will increase. The military prosecutor's office is now dealing with a whole range of issues, beginning with desertion and ending with corruption in Obronprom, in the Ministry of Defence, by force. In recent times, I just want to draw your attention to the fact that the small number of military prosecutors in the number of resonant cases, in the number of cases investigated, in the number of hidden abuses, is one of the first places in our law enforcement agencies to deal with such issues. In close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, the Military Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office, we have developed amendments to the Prosecutor's Office Act, which foresees a whole block of changes and additions to existing legislation. Thus, an article of the Procurator’s Law harmonizes the states of the Military Prosecutor’s Office with the General Staff of the Armed Forces. What does that mean? Today, in fact, the Attorney General’s Office is the agency of the Attorney General’s Office. But in close cooperation with Henstab, she will be able to engage through mobilization, through an appeal, through the military system of experts, to provide them with the necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u56	and implement them in place. The other one. In fact, the functions and powers of the prosecutor’s office are expanded. Considering that the law is quite complex, we suggest that it be adopted today as a basis, processed, and adopted in a reduced manner within a week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, this was a report from both the author and the committee. You've heard the suggestions. Please sign two for two, two for the other. Please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u58	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill. Because it is this bill that specifies the rules for the appointment of a chief military prosecutor and clearly defines the conditions under which he will work and what he will use in his activities. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Sergey High, make a statement. Dear colleagues, there was no record of "against." "For" signed up, and here's "against," please sign up for "against." Two "against"-- sign up. Please, two against. Lensky. Please, People's Deputies of Lozova. And then he's the national deputy of Wesselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we see today that the military prosecutor's office is being used to a great extent to repress our volunteers, to combat patriots who, with guns in their hands, defend their people's right to unity, to freedom. We can clearly see that the authorities are simply using the military prosecutor's office as well as the civil prosecutor's office in order to destroy the volunteer movement, the greatest pride of our state, as they are now sitting: Ruslan Onishchenko, Constantine Kriwich, Alexander Shitikov and many of our other heroes. And at the same time, the authorities are using the military prosecutor's office and other power structures to destroy the volunteer movement, along with Poshenko going to Putin, and along with Merkel and Holland, they want to give amnesty to the Separatist bastards -- Giwii, Motorola, Gorkinim, who killed our soldiers who shot at the head, who tortured the prisoners. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to think about it, we all see today that the military prosecutor's office is one of the reprisals of the Poshenko regime, and by voting in favour, you share responsibility for repression against Ukrainian patriots. Thank you. Freedom for Prisoners!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u61	National deputy of Wesselova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u62	Please give the floor to Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u63	National MP Chumak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I understand very clearly that the issue of military discipline is very important in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I fully understand that the issue of military discipline is urgent in the ATO area. But we can't change the issue of political relevance every time by breaking the Constitution. There is a serious problem: the Chief Military Prosecutor is not a military official of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Military Prosecutor is not part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is the person who is the official of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. The Constitution states that all officials and authorities in Ukraine act only within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution. Let's look for other possibilities of increased military discipline, let's look for other ways to implement the powers of the Military Prosecutor's Office in the ATO area rather than violate the Constitution. We're going to get to the point where we're going to have to just-just make changes to the Constitution or write a new version of the Constitution, and we're going to make a very large number of constitutional errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Sergey Mishchenko from the non-fractional, a minute. And let's move on to the vote, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u66	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District. The bill that we are about to be put to the vote, I can say, consists of two parts. The first is half the money in this bill, which is in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. This is the agreement of the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, which is what the state of the military prosecutor and so on is confirmed. But please look at the Transitional Positions of this law. We will again have general oversight in Ukraine, and only on those objects that will be identified by the Attorney General of Ukraine. So for the Military Prosecutor's Office, there's going to be general supervision. So the whole country is going to be in Europe, and the part is going to be elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. In accordance with the committee’s decision, the draft law is proposed for adoption as a basis. Positions against, you've heard, and the report on this issue has also been heard. Please, Your Honor, put to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 2967) amending certain laws of Ukraine (with regard to individual issues of improving the provision of military prosecutors). According to the committee's decision, there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine whether this bill should be adopted on a basis, we vote on a basis. [[11:12:32]] For 186 I didn't get the right number of votes for this bill. There's an offer to send him out for preparation, processing and preparation for the re-first reading. Colleagues, the author, for work. Please, colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I propose that the draft Law 2967 be returned to the author for further processing, subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. Let's vote, colleagues. Back to pre-work, back to pre-work, respectable colleagues. [[11:13:22]] For 237 Decision taken. The law's back. Thank you. Next, colleagues, 284. Perhaps we will consider the inclusion in the order of the day of the questions that we discussed at the outset? To be included in the agenda for this week. There are both visa-free and electronic second readings. Please, colleagues, please, dear colleagues. There is a proposal to support the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the adoption of decisions on the current plenary weeks of draft laws relating to second reading in electronic form, as well as draft laws, including visa-free treatment. They were all given to you, and you all saw them. Please support this. Let's re-vote in support of this proposal. Colleagues, we're economics aside from the second reading alone, the economy is a few million dollars, my friends. That's a few million dollars. That's, let me tell you, there won't be any. the double, triple work being done today on preparing questions for second reading. We don't interfere with the procedure at all. It's only about giving us the right to send a second reading electronically, in the same procedures, in the same terms. Please, all of you, Your Honor. It's convenient when you get offers at your e - mail address. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily laws for consideration and adoption, and consider them for the current plenary week. Please vote, please support. Signal vote, please, colleagues. Please support the inclusion in the agenda and consideration at this plenary week, the current plenary week. Please vote, please support. [[11:15:25]] For 186 You don't have the will for second reading in electronic form yet. All right, all right, all right. It's a very progressive position. Let's move on, dear fellows. 2847, draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act (to establish a simplified system of admission to Ukrainian citizenship of foreigners and stateless persons serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces). People's MP Winnick. There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. Please be determined as to how the draft law is dealt with by a reduced procedure. [[11:16:16]] For-167 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The need for proposed legislative changes has arisen in the context of a situation where Ukrainian independence today protects many foreigners and non-citizens. We've already discussed a bill that was adopted in the first reading that allows foreigners to perform contractual service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And according to them, social protection is spreading, and they are given the right status in Ukraine. This law, it's kind of derivative. Because this law allows non-citizens and foreigners to obtain Ukrainian citizenship if they have served in the Ukrainian Armed Forces under contract. The proposed rule is that if such a person has received a national award, he may receive Ukrainian citizenship under an even more simplified procedure. Because there are a number of bureaucratic terms to be performed. To acquire Ukrainian citizenship, for example, you have to live continuously in Ukraine for five years. And if a person is on a contract with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, that term is reduced to 3 years, starting with the date of the contract accordingly. There is a rule that we have to prove that there is money for living in Ukraine. And this is the thesis needed to obtain Ukrainian citizenship. Instead, the bill proposes that if a person receives a national award, out of the six points that need to be implemented in order to obtain Ukrainian citizenship, actually four will be cancelled. And this will be the simplified procedure that our society today requires. In fact, the question today is quite acute. And President Prášenko commented that Ukraine and the Supreme Council, as the main body of legislative authority in Ukraine, would decide and resolve this issue, how foreigners would be able to serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and how they could obtain Ukrainian citizenship under simplified procedures. Because, in fact, those people, such as the Belarusians, who can no longer return to their home country because they were protecting them today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, from the Nemira Committee, Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the Human Rights Committee discussed this bill at its meeting on September 2. This is about making changes to one article, article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. According to the previous reporter, instead of the five years currently foreseen, it is suggested that this plan be reduced to three years. Nor is it required to obtain a permit to emigrate. There are other things that are regulated by this bill. During the committee meeting, it was pointed out that there was another bill that had already passed first reading and second reading, and stood in order today. This is Bill 2389. In order to avoid disagreement between the two bills, the sequence of consideration is essential. Bill 2389 is to be adopted in general today, allowing for consideration in the first reading and then in the second draft of Law 2847. Therefore, taking into account this principle of the requirement for a sequence of consideration and mandatory approval in the second reading of Bill 2389, the Human Rights Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 2847 in the first reading and to accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Please sign two for two, two against. Sergey High, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u72	I give Lapin my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u73	National MP Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u74	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to take these legislative initiatives seriously and to support them. First of all, let me give you a little example. I had people from different states in the Idar battalion, including the Russian Federation. There's Julia Tolopa, who the whole Internet is talking about, who gave birth to a child here in Ukraine, who fought for Ukraine, and there are criminal cases against her in Russia. And there are a great many people who have committed crimes in neighboring countries for the benefit of Ukraine. To this day after the war, these volunteers are returning, and in fact they have nowhere to go. In fact, they can be pulled out of the country at any time by Ukraine into their homeland, including Russia, and put in jail. So I'm very much asking you to support this bill, to support all these legislative initiatives that relate to the simplified procedure for giving citizenship to people who, at the risk of their lives, risked their lives, supported Ukraine's independence and fought for it. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, the next Yuri Chizmar Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u76	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, it is clear that it is time to resolve the issue of status and the granting of citizenship to individuals, foreigners, and stateless persons who have protected them, with weapons in their hands, Ukrainian independence and territorial integrity. But this law does not solve this problem in general, because it states that only foreigners and noncitizens who are under contract serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces can obtain citizenship. As you know, we granted this right only two months ago to foreigners to serve under a contract in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thus, those foreigners and stateless persons who, in the early days of Russian aggression, took up the defense of Ukrainian interests have no right under this law to obtain citizenship. The problem is largely theirs, those who then came and today have been unable to return to their Fatherland for almost a year now, because in the Russian Federation, in the countries of Central Asia, Belarus, they are facing criminal persecution. And today, without Ukrainian citizenship, they cannot be legally present in Ukraine because they have exceeded 90 days of legislation for their stay in Ukraine. So I think this law needs a lot of work. In addition, the Supreme Council has a bill that I was the initiator of, 1901, in which the issue has been settled, but it is not clear how the rules of the Rules have been duly rewritten on the committee without any deputy. And that's fake. Because it is no longer the author’s law, but the law of another person. And that law did not go to the Supreme Council today, even though it had been introduced earlier. I believe that such bill manipulation violates the Rules and Rights and the duties of deputies under the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u77	Please, from a non-fractional point of view, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u78	Dear friends, dear enemies, want to make peace. What Mr. Restless said, and I would like to emphasize it. Project 2847 is fully linked and solves the problem that is now being recalled by Yuri Chizmar, 2389. So I'm asking Mr. Chairman to take off the 2847 now, to go to 2389. We accept it in the second reading, and then we can vote 2747 as a basis and as a whole. In general, these are laws that must continue to be enforced by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you for Mr. Gussie's presence. The most important thing for the implementation of these laws must be the arrangement for the conduct of military service by persons without citizenship or foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u79	Please, from the non-faulty. Please take your seats as national deputies, Your Honor. Borislav Bereza, from a non-fractional point of view, and we move on to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u80	Borislav Bereza, non-factional, 213 district, city of Kyiv. Dear friends, I'd like to invite you all to your seats now. Because when Ukraine had to be protected, many foreigners, who were genuine patriots of Ukraine, who had Ukrainian roots (these are boys from Georgia, Belarus, Poland, Israel, and America), came to Ukraine and protected our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is respect for those who came and protected Ukraine in the early days of the first days. We must now accept what my colleague Mr. Kishkar proposes, and get that patriotic spirit that was, is, and now we see it among the soldiers of heroes who were protecting and protecting Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let us turn to the question, and more specifically, to the vote on the draft Law (register No. 2847). Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act (for a simplified system of admission to Ukrainian citizenship of foreigners and stateless persons serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces). Accordingly, the committee is invited to consider this one. adopt this bill as a basis. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. 2847 on a base, respected colleagues. Ready to vote? Attention, 2847 on the basis of the vote, colleagues. 2847 on a base. Based on the base. [[11:28:31]] For 246 The draft law was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, the registration number of the draft Law 2550a is on the amendment to section VI, paragraph 24, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the redistribution of the local budgets of the temporarily occupied territories). A draft law was prepared by the national deputy of Ukraine, Maxim. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft Law by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself, colleagues, as to the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:29:18]] For-161 Decision taken. Please report to the honourable author.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Beginning last July, in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, treasury services were suspended at the expense of the budgets of areas beyond the control of the Ukrainian authorities. So in the air today, nearly two and a half dollars were raised. And that's the kind of money you need right now to rebuild Donbas. Donbasu, who made his choice and wants to live in a free Ukraine. After a year of war and instability, the situation in the region worsens day after day. Some 700,000 people have moved to Ukraine’s controlled areas to date. The family lacks housing, children lack gardening, hospitals, and schools. At the same time, nearly 2.5 billion dollars a day eats up heavy inflation. The fall-winter period is approaching, and in both areas more than 6.5,000 housing projects are urgently needed: 35 boilers, 310 km of heat. People can not only be without heat and water but also without a roof over their heads. At the same time, uncontrolled budget accounts accumulate money, but neither the region nor the state can use it. That's our opinion. Once this money has been made by the region, it is to his advantage to spend it. For every citizen of the Ukrainian Donbas to have normal human conditions for life and to realize that this is much better than the DNR and the LNR. Today we have huge debts and huge loans to our foreign partners, including to rebuild the ruined part of Ukraine. While we can use our own resources, and most importantly, without taking any money from the government budget. I would like to point out that this bill was supported by a government and a pro-profile budget committee. So I very much hope that all the political forces will forget about populism today and vote on such an important initiative in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u83	Thank you. Please report to the head of the budget subcommittee, Ivanovič Kulichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u84	Good afternoon, Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Budget Committee of September 16th, reviewed the draft Law of 2550a, which establishes the specificities of managing the local budgets of the population areas in which the public authority temporarily fails to exercise its authority. These funds are accounted for by the Treasury authorities and can only be used by the appropriate local councils after the return of such areas to government control. According to Treasury, the cost of such local budgets on September 1, 2015 is over $2 billion in the Donetsk region and over a billion in the Lugansk region. Taking into account the requirements of budgetary legislation and the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, it is proposed that, in the government-defined order of such funds, they be allocated to the special State budget fund and then channeled in the form of subsidies to the district budgets of Donetsk and Luhansk for the stated purpose. The committee therefore supports the new drafting of the bill. Following a review of the bill, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council draft Law 2550a to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the proposals put forward by the committee, including technical and legal clarifications in the title and text of the bill. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u85	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Please sign up: two for, two against. Two for, two against, please sign in. John Wynnick, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u86	Colleagues, you know, the need to adopt this law is that we today need to develop territories that are now bordering the line of demarcation that are temporarily occupied by Russian troops. Why should we cultivate this? Because we really need to show the power of Ukrainian constitutional authority, the power of Kiev. And if there's really 2 and a half billion in treasury accounts, you have to put that money in the border area today to show that Ukraine is protecting its citizens, that Ukraine is a thriving country that we have developing hospitals, kindergartens and roads, and we don't need any more war. Because, really, Russia can only be destroyed from the inside. We will only be able to break it with the success of Ukraine. Let's show these progresses in the border areas, let's vote unanimously, let's support Donbas, because in this room the word "Donbas" or not every 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, people's deputy Wozniak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, indeed, this law is needed by Ukraine and is most needed by Ukrainian Donbas. I would now like to draw your attention to where are the political forces that are constantly trying to put the interests of the Donetsk region at the top of the list. They're not in the hall right now. The law that returns 2 and a half billion dollars to Ukrainian Donbas is completely ignored by them. I believe that this law should now be adopted not only in the first reading but also in general in this room. Because if we take it in general right now, it's absolutely realistic that we can use this money by the end of this year to restore the infrastructure of Ukrainian Donbas, and immediately the inhabitants of the Lugansk and Donetsk region will feel how the Ukrainian authorities are treating them. The People's Front faction will support this law. The Budget Committee, together with the government and the authors of the law, agreed on all points of contention. And I believe that this law must be adopted here on the basis of today and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction supports all the patriots of Donetsk and Lugansk, who are now in unoccupied territories, and will support this bill. Also on behalf of the Fatherland faction, I would like to make a proposal to the heads of the military and civilian administrations to support the higher education institutions that are now located in Slaviansk, Kramatarsk, Starobelsk, Krasnoarmian. And these costs should also be aimed at supporting them. What's the situation? They moved, they don't have their own libraries, they don't have their own equipment, they don't have their own equipment, and most of all, they don't have hostels. We can't take our young people, who are now under occupation, which is now under this propaganda, just because we don't have dormitories. I suggest, there's a socio-economic target, and I propose that we allocate the funds to make sure that those patriots who exported their seniors, who are now in very difficult situations, who are actually getting paid and living in dormitories and/or renting apartments, are supported and our authorities have shown that we're not fighting for territory, but we're fighting for the hearts and minds of people, and we're helping them. I propose to support this bill. And I'm also calling on the government to cancel action 65 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which prevents this VUZ from using its own funds for these needs. It is nonsense when this decree, which was designed to ensure that corrupt taxpayers and prosecutors do not spend money on their own repairs, does not allow higher educational institutions that have moved to spend their own money on these needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u92	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, as a result of Russian aggression against Ukraine, one and a half million Ukrainian citizens are displaced refugees on their homeland. They're older people, they're babies, they're schoolchildren. I ask the government, I ask the Ukrainian authorities, I ask the parliamentary majority. Do you know how these people live? Do they have a job, or do they have a place to live? Do they have wages, or do they have livelihoods to feed their families? I'm sure you don't know the answer to these questions because people are thrown away on their own. We have thousands of abandoned houses in Ukraine, abandoned buildings that could have been schools, hospitals, and more. I've been talking to both the government and the government on a number of occasions: let's start some credit programs. Place windows in those abandoned buildings, doors, and give people who are displaced on their home land the opportunity to winter over. So that they do not sit in the basements cold, hungry, but have at least a minimum attention to the state. Unfortunately, these programs are not implemented. Today, immigrants have to pay thousands of dollars to rent their homes so that they can winter anywhere. And the state could introduce tax credit lines to enable people to have at least temporary housing. I demand the government, I demand the President, I demand that the parliamentary majority mention the Ukrainian citizens who today because the authorities did not protect them, because their authorities left them on their own, they were forced to get rid of their home. I demand that you protect the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I think. And please, according to the Rules: factions that did not participate in the discussion for a minute. People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to speak a little bit more simply in a simpler language to say what this bill is all about. The bill, which is registered by the representatives of the current coalition, proposes all these surpluses of two and a half billion dollars of local budgets, I reiterate, the local budgets, the territorial communities that are now in uncontrollable territory, to use the Cabinet of Ministers for other purposes. Especially for the restoration of social infrastructure. Everyone here is talking about taking care of Ukrainian citizens, and they're dividing Ukrainian citizens who are in control and citizens who are out of control. Once you have reached an agreement in Paris on the reintegration of the areas in question, these costs will be essential for restoring the social infrastructure of the areas where conflict is now taking place. I understand that the situation is very difficult from a financial point of view. But it's just not right to manage it without control, I think. More than that, if.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. We finished the discussion. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Let's go to the vote. The draft Law (Registration No. 2550a), the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 24, of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the redistribution of the local budgets of the temporarily occupied territories), has been prepared by the National Deputy of Ukraine Maksim Jefimov, "Block of Petra Prashenko". The report, the committee report, you've heard, Your Honor. There is a proposal to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole in line with the committee's conclusion. On the basis and in general. Please, colleagues, vote for the base and base of 2550a. Vote. On the basis and in general. [[11:43:20]] For 265 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 2022a), draft amendment to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on the Strengthening of Social Protection for Families, Honorary Colleagues, Heavenly Hundreds. There's an offer by the author of the report by Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please determine whether the draft law is being reviewed by a reduced procedure, please vote. Short-term procedure. For consideration of the simplified procedure of the draft law. [[11:44:05]] For 181 Decision taken. Please report, Alexander Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u97	Dear People's Deputies, you have before you a bill to amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, to strengthen the protection of the families of the Celestial Sotny. I would like to say that Bill 2022a has been drafted by a fully proactive group of Majdan and with the participation of representatives of social organizations and activists. The bill proposes to amend article 10 of the War Veterans'Status Act, guarantees of their social protection, and to extend the Act to members of families who have died or died as a result of injuries, injuries or other health violations sustained during the Dignity Revolution. That is, during the massive protests against the Yanuković regime and for European integration on 21 November 2013 until 21 November 2014. Such status would provide an adequate level of protection for parents, women and children of the victims of the Dignity Revolution. It will allow for sanitation, hospitalization and priority housing, housing and other benefits provided under the law of our country. The bill also provides that the law does not apply to families of militias, soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military units who have died or died as a result of injury, injury or other health violations resulting from the performance of official duties in events during the Dignity Revolution. I propose that the bill be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please report from the Committee and the author. Vote? Or two for, two for against. There is a proposal for the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote on the bill and to stop the discussion. Is there no objection? None. Please, Your Honor, 2022a Draft Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection on the Strengthening of Social Protection for the Family of Heavenly Hundreds. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, an important law of great importance. There is a proposal, according to the committee's conclusion, to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general. [[11:47:11]] For 239. The law is passed, your honors. Let's move on. Draft Act (Registration No. 2389) (second reading), draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine by foreigners and stateless persons. Second reading. Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Pashinsky. The committee is Ivan Vinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, indeed, this number has already been heard in this room today because we have adopted a bill that allows non-citizens and foreigners to obtain Ukrainian citizenship under simplified procedure. Instead, there were many references to the service under contract in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Bill 2389, it actually regulates this issue, allows non-citizens as well as foreigners to perform contractual service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and to obtain appropriate military status. And this bill establishes social guarantees in the event of death, disability, and it extends to members of their families, a one-time aid that will be paid in the event of death. Also very important, the novelty in this bill is that we have clarified the position of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in relation to, indeed, mercenaries. Because the current edition does not clearly regulate who, indeed, is a mercenary against Ukraine, and who is a person without citizenship, who is actually a mercenary for the protection of the Ukrainian state, to help protect our independence. So these questions are settled. The bill was discussed on the committee. He is prepared for his second reading. He's been introduced mostly of a technical legal nature. Therefore, the committee unanimously supports its adoption in the second reading and in general. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Let's go through the amendments, if there's a vision, a desire. If not, let's go over the simplified procedure to the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, we're going after the amendments, there aren't so many amendments that are rejected. Please, 5 revisions. Is the author insisting? Don't insist. 23th Amendment, Melniczuk. Don't insist. Ivanovich. Please, 26 revisions. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. All of it. In fact, everything else, dear colleagues, all of the committee's corrections are taken into account. Please, we can vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please. Draft Law (Registration No. 2389), Colleagues, Attention. Draft Act (Registration No. 2389) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces by foreigners and stateless persons (second reading). The committee's report, the information from the committee we got, and the amendments, in fact, almost all of them are accounted for, those who have been rejected, the authors don't insist. Please take your seats. Second reading and a total of 2389, please vote 2389, second reading. Please, colleagues, we're voting. 2389, second reading as a whole. [[11:51:59]] For 229 The law is passed, your honors. We have a number of questions that have already been discussed. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the partner states (democratic states of the world) (3123). We can vote. Maria Ionova, from the committee. So then we're going to take it as a base and generally as a committee. Do you remember that statement? Does Everyone Remember? Please, 3123 – Statement Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the partner states (democratic states of the world) and international organizations for the purposes of holding legal elections in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Prepared by the committee headed by Irina Heratchenko, worked by all our internationals. Please, I'm asking you to support this motion for a ruling, are you ready? Please vote on the draft decree as a whole. On the basis and in general, please vote. [[11:53:24]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, I didn't stop the vote, was Boris Ivanovich's proposal. And in the committee's version, I told you, he's in agreement with the committee, with the paperwork. Maria Ionova, there are regulations that need to be announced before the application, so why are you. Dear colleagues, then there's an offer, let's say that this is a decision of appeal, it doesn't need to be included, we're going to go back to its consideration. Please report to Maria Ionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We've discussed this with you. But there are some remedies in view of the fact that the work of the 70th session of the UN General Assembly has been completed, and we have changed the Minsk Agreements into a peace settlement process. That is, in the third, fifth, and seventh paragraphs, we are changing into a process of peaceful settlement. And in the 8th paragraph, we're changing "to settle the situation in the East of Ukraine" to "the consequences of Russian aggression." And instead of "in the light of the opening of the 70th session," it's just "summation." And that's how it stays. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, now with these amendments, I'm putting draft Decree 3123 to the vote for the return. Please, colleagues, return to consideration of the decision of appeal. Concentrate, colleagues, as soon as we have received the report on the rights to return to the vote, to consider this appeal. Please support your return to consideration, colleagues. Please vote back. Colleagues, we vote. [[11:55:17]] For 214 We didn't make it. Colleagues, I put to the vote a draft statement, a decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the question of the return to consideration of this claim. Please, colleagues, concentrate. Please vote return. Vote for return, colleagues, for return. Vote please, colleagues. Please support me. [[11:55:56]] For 237 We're back, 237. And now, in general, with the rights that Mary Ionova had heard from the rostrum. Please, Your Honor, we're voting on this draft of the appeal order as a whole, with the rights that have been issued. Colleagues, please support, vote, colleagues. [[11:56:22]] For 237 The decision has been made. Honorary colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 2228), draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on parking, parking, parking. This bill was discussed earlier. Let's do it then. That's the basis, right? The committee's decision is correct. Project 2228, colleagues, please concentrate. It was previously discussed in Parliament's Hall – a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on parking, parking, parking. Prepare to vote on the basis of the draft law. Ready? Please, colleagues, 2228 is based, 2228 is based. Please vote. A draft law was discussed earlier. Please vote 2228. [[11:57:35]] For-164 The decision is not taken. There is a proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Is such an offer accepted? Okay. The law, the bill is considered to be rejected. It's from the authors of the bill: it's considered rejected, it didn't get the required number of votes. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, one minute, please. Before I announce my break in accordance with the Rules, there are two factions declaring a recess. But three minutes for the show. Please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you two minutes of attention, I think the buffet will wait. There are several rallies under the walls of the Supreme Council. They're under flags, under different political slogans, but under the Supreme Council stands now literally 15-20 women, standing several people in shape. And they're asking us today to back up on the guys who have been in the middle of this for over a six-month period. And in their opinion, unfortunately, due attention may not be given to other institutions of our state. So upon their request, at their request, allow me to read out a request to the national deputies. "Dear National Deputies, we, the mother of the hostages, ask you to support the address of the President of Ukraine from the mothers, relatives, brothers of the boys who are in captivity. Mr. President, if you'd like to have confirmation of the presence of Russian mercenaries in eastern Ukraine, help free our boys. They'll tell you how on February 9, 2015, near the village of Logwinov, between Debalts and Artemis, they captured the Cossacks of the Donetsk army under the leadership of Otam Saffronek, as they were kept in a pit for three months without raising God's world, tortured, beaten, smoked, stabbed. Then, after fighting with each other, they were taken by the militias, and for about five months they've been in the premises of the former security service in Donetsk, working every day from morning to late evening. Yes, they are not beaten here, but they are not free. If you have holidays and weekends, our boys are still trapped. We have repeatedly appealed to the President's Administration, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Defense, to the hostage freeing officers, to the volunteers of the Red Cross Committee, the International Committee on Human Rights. There's only one letter coming from everywhere: "Wait, your children are trapped in illegal armed formations. We're doing everything we can to get them out. Wait." But you, understand, have been our family in captivity for more than 230 days. Imagine for a moment that our boys are your family — father, brother, son. How will you feel? With them also came the mothers of soldiers who disappeared after the "Ilovay Cauldron". Many of them saw on Life News videos that they were taken prisoner, that's all. Then be quiet. No one can now give them the answer to where their children are. We want to ask when their search will begin. We would like to draw Mr. President's attention to the request that we make every effort to speed up the liberation and search for our family. You, as a constitutional guarantor, have also come to power because of these boys who are now in captivity. Under the Minsk Accords, the prisoner exchange was to end at the beginning of March. It's October. A lot of our guys out there, wounded, in a lot of bullets in their hands, their legs, they're still intact. They suffer from intolerance, fatigue, and the inability to embrace their families and children. We urge you to support our appeal to the President to speed up the prisoner exchange. We urge all concerned to support our mother's action to free the captives." I know two mothers personally. This is the mother of Peter Jaroshevich, the mother of Sashi Oliynik. On February 9, five hours after my brothers and I left Debaltsev, they drove by the village of Logwinovo, and from this day forward they are also in captivity. I'm also from our faction, and I think we're all talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u104	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u105	First, to the President. We insist that all negotiations, all questions be put in the second order of the day. The first question is the exchange issue, our guys have to come back, and then we can negotiate on all the rest of the questions. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Heroim Slava! Please, Your Honor, in accordance with the Rules, I hereby declare a 30-minute recess. Please return in time and in full storage to continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u107	I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the start of work. And the heads of factions, please also mobilize factions to work in the session room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, while national deputies take their seats, perhaps we will consider some organizational issues: committee issues, the inclusion of new deputies in several committees, perhaps a calendar plan. Is there no objection? They don't need to be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues. Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our work. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft Act (Registration No. 2835) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cost of Gas for the Population. The authors of the law, Julius Timoshenko. As well as the bill’s draft registration number (alternative) 2352. Dear colleagues, we begin our consideration of these issues. Dear colleagues, two important bills, we begin our consideration. Please report to the National Deputy Julia Timoshenko. There is a proposal for the deputies to consider these two bills in a simplified manner. Please identify your esteemed colleagues for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[12:54:46]] For the 120th. The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Please. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u109	Thank you very much. Bill 2835 on the amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Gas Cost Loss for the Population is currently under consideration due to a reduction in rent on own gas. At the end of last year, the Supreme Council voted for the first time in independence for a new 70 percent rent on its own gas. Why Wrong? Because one of the strategic tasks of Ukraine is to expand its own production of Ukrainian natural gas to such an extent that it is possible to store purchases of Russian natural gas. Our production of Ukrainian gas is our energy independence, this is our political freedom. And if the government of Ukraine thinks about our freedom, about our independence, about our sovereignty, which includes our component, energy independence, we were obliged to release the production of Ukrainian gas at all, from any taxes, to create a system of State aid that could be given to Ukraine as much gas as we need for all of our needs over the years. But politics is carried out in a diametrically opposite way, and the rent that detracts from all world standards virtually destroys the area of Ukrainian gas production. I'm asking, if it's possible, I don't know, please show slide number one about the size of the rent paid in other countries of the world. Please pay attention, this is a very eloquent slide. And you'll see that if we take Denmark, which has the highest interest rate of 39 percent, in Ukraine it's 70 percent. And Turkey, which now contributes to its own gas production, has a salary of 12.5 percent. Imagine when, on our national production, all investors who have invested their money in Ukraine are set up 70 percent of the rent, then the sector dies, and we lose our own Ukrainian gas. Therefore, this strategic error needs to be corrected immediately. We would also like to draw your attention to the fact that not only is the production of Ukrainian gas being reduced by such foolish tax policy as is actually nothing to the budget. And there's another ingredient. The point is that 70 percent of the circulation of Ukrainian gas, rent, was put into gas tariffs and heat for the population. And in fact, the tariffs that the Ukrainian authorities have set out for the Ukrainians at 7,000, 188 dollars per thousand cubic meters of gas, this is actually a hidden system of extra taxation for people. It does not compensate for the cost of production. I want you to look at the second slide right now, and you'll see what's the point of raising tariffs. Look at the left column, this is the old population gas price -- 1 thousand 309.6 dollars per thousand cubic meters of gas. And there are some ingredients. The first ingredient is how much gas is produced with revenue, the second is transportation, the third is NAC Naftogazu and the fourth is taxes. Right column, this is the new population gas price of 7,000 188. The total price has been increased by 5.5 times. But look at the result: 8 times the increase in taxes. This means that it's not gas, we support gas production when we place these tariffs, but we actually increase taxes on people who can't pay anything anymore. But that radical figure that's actually a killer, that in the new tariff on gas for humans, 11.4 times the increase in NAC Naftogaz's income. Where the biggest corruption, where NAC Naftogaz doesn't transport anything, it doesn't extract anything, it's a wasteland that actually collects half the tariff from people, and then it starts there. But at the same time, for our manufacturing state-owned company, incomes are only 1.7 times higher. And as you know, 477 dollars per thousand cubic meters is the cost without taxes paid to scrape. Then with taxes, that's 1 thousand 590 dollars. And plus VAT, that's 1 thousand 980 dollars. And they sell people for 7,000 188. And so if we're lowering the rent on domestic natural gas today, we're not only allowing ourselves to develop gas, we're allowing investment to come, and we're also able to reduce the tariff on gas and heat for people who are the key today. Because people stopped buying everything today: clothes, shoes -- they don't buy enough food, they don't buy medicine. And in just the last year, we've only had a split sales rate that used to be 60 percent in gross domestic product, and now it's down to 40 in surplus. So we have GDP falling due to the decline in retail trade and the fact that people have no opportunity to buy anything. That's the problem with our economic downturn. And it's not about tariffs, it's about the insolvency of Ukrainian families, it's because of this stupid policy. And that's why our job today is to fix it. There are two bills. One bill that was tabled with me, and thank you for that. And there's a second bill, the government. Our bill foresees 70 percent of the rent rate for everyone without excluding mining enterprises to set up for deep wells — 29 percent for over-deep wells — 14 percent. That's the average of the world's rents. And that's how we're going to open up the possibility of investing in the industry. There this tax is taxed on our bill equally without exception: state enterprises, joint activities, including private companies that extract gas. It's because we have in article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine that we have a level playing field in the development of all forms of property. And if we give one tax to one parent and the other tax to another, it creates completely uncompetitive conditions in the market. That's absurd. It's like putting 20 percent of the VAT on the company, and it's not like the company's "Romashka" to put 10 percent -- the value added tax, and then release it on the market, let them compete. The government offers foreign investment companies to lower their rent, and for state companies that today have their main gas production on their shoulders to keep 70 percent of their rent. In addition, additional income taxes are introduced. I tell you that government policy and strategy is a real destruction of the state's gas sector. You can't put 29 percent of the rent on foreign investment companies, and you can't leave 70 for state-owned enterprises. It's just stupidity and it's not an economic profession. But at the same time, when this bill was being considered by the Committee on Tax and Tariff Policy, the entire committee asked us as the authors of the law: to leave 70 percent of the rent for businesses and to give to everyone else 29 percent and 14. We've taken it under pressure, and we're willing to agree to that in order to get people tariff cuts, and in order to lower the rent for our oil and gas industry. So for joint activity, 70, for everyone else, 29 and 14. I ask you to support this bill and not support the government which it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u110	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u111	I'm asking you to support the parliamentary bill, which contains consolidation, including committee support, and not support the government as one that leaves tariffs at the old level and that destroys the state's gas sector. Please vote in public.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u112	Question-answer, please, three minutes. Sign up for questions and answers. Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u113	Julia Volodymyrna! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Julia Volodymyrical, I thank you for this bill, because it really does take a state position, because today, during the war, during the Russian aggression, Ukraine has increased its dependence on Russia to buy Russian gas. This is practically a national betrayal. We raised this question repeatedly and addressed Arsenius Yatsenuk, but unfortunately he did not hear it. I would like to ask you to similarly support our initiative that the gas of our own production should go to the needs of the population. This bill, 2804a, was drafted by the Freedom Union. So I'd also like to be in a set of those bills that we've considered, because our cheap gas has to go primarily to the needs of the population, to the needs of the HKG, not to the private factories, the metallurgical combinations and the chemical enterprises of the oligarchs, and that's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u114	I want to support the Freedom Party right now in order to actually do what is a matter of our honor to you. It's like all 24 years of independence before, the gas of Ukrainian production was given to people. By October 1, this year, this order worked, and no government had broken it, and the government had taken Ukrainian gas from the Ukrainians and left it to its corruption structures. At the same time, he gave imported gas to the people and placed the price of 7,000 188 instead of 2,000,880 with transportation. This is a crime, and the prosecution has to investigate it and bring the guilty to justice. We're willing to vote in favour of your law, and I think that this week all the bills that are going to give the Ukrainian gas to the people need to be voted in general and given their lives to stop corruption, including corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u115	Please, one last question. Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u116	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. You know, there's a very large housing fund in Ukraine that was put into operation 60 years ago, even though the capital repairs are supposed to be 25 years ago. We realize that's where the calories are going to run. But the question is the following. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, please tell everyone, across the country, what will be really reduced for the population after we vote on this bill in this room today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u117	First of all, I'd like to make it very clear that our gas-price team for a total population that doesn't pay any fines for the Crushing, nor for the State budget. And I can tell you the key figure is that in 2014, when the price of gas was 1,300 dollars for people, the income already taxed, the net revenue of the Crushing Corporation was a billion 400 million. Now the price has been raised. So in other words, if we lower the rent now, it will increase gas production and lower gas prices for the population. And it's going to make Ukraine independent, because it's going to have to invest in its own gas production, and it's going to be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor. Question time's up. Since we have two drafts of Laws 2835 that have been reported, and an alternative 2352a, introduced by the government, I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Maceev Olen Leonidovna. And then there'll be the committee's report, and the question-answers. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Natural Gas Subjects has several objectives. First of all, it's important to lower interest rates. And here we have to say that the average wage rate is not 29 percent in the world, but 20 percent in the world. But improve the system of taxation of operators operating gas production for commercial purposes. Secondly, to create effective incentives for attracting new investments, which will contribute both to increasing the volume of self-sustainment and to strengthening our country's energy independence. Thirdly, to secure gas prices below international parity during the transition period by 2017. And the main thing. Grant the most vulnerable groups of consumers, namely the population. In particular, the bill provides for a reduction in the rate of rent for companies producing gas for commercial purposes, from 1 October to 55 percent and 28 percent to 29 percent and 14 percent respectively, depending on the depth of the production. Starting on January 1, 2018, the government bill provides for a reduction of rent rates to 20 percent and 10 percent, depending on the depth of production. That's even lower. At the same time, we propose the introduction of a new tax tool in the form of a 15 percent tax benefit to an active income tax. The bill provides for accounting for all capital costs incurred by companies, for development, for development, and for new wells. This bill is fully in the interests of citizens of Ukraine, the state and business. But he was working in a working group that represented the interests of all interested parties. In addition, world-renowned experts, including experts from the International Monetary Fund, were involved in the work on this bill. In order to be transparent in determining the object of income tax since 2018, when rent rates have been reduced to 20 percent and 10 percent respectively, it is proposed to introduce tax fences for enterprises in development and natural gas production. However, all of the capital investments involved in the development and arrangement of the new wells are taken into account. This approach will stimulate further investment in the development and development of new gas crops. This refers directly to national security and the strengthening of our country’s energy independence. In addition, the government bill provides for the conservation of 70 percent of the rate for joint activities contracts. I would like to remind you that the rent rate of 70 percent was introduced on the initiative of the people's deputies and in order to stop the practice of selling gas to enterprises with a public share for commercial purposes, and to channel the derived gas solely to generate resources for the needs of the population. In the future, this will allow gas prices below international parity during the transition period until 2017 and grant subsidies to the most vulnerable groups of consumers of the population. By March 2, this year, the total amount of subsidies had been increased by the government from 12.5 billion dollars to 24.4 billion dollars. The following year, an increase in the above subsidies is planned. Starting on April 1, 2017, a complete transition to the free gas market is planned to allow for a single tax approach regardless of the direction of further implementation of the gas. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Come back, please. Questions and answers, three minutes. Please sign up. Sign up for questions and answers. Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u121	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u122	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have one question, but it has to do with the key decisions of the government. Please tell me, how was it possible to approve regulation 758, on 1 October 2015, by which you compared the price of own gas to the price imported from abroad? And secondly, how can you leave 70 percent of the rent for Ukrainian state enterprises in your bill? So where's the competition? So you're supporting foreign companies, and the state-owned gas industry has decided to submit this bill? That's the key difference between your bill and your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. As you know, today, there is a gradual liberalisation of tariffs in line with changes in natural gas pricing policies, while ensuring direct budget support to the most vulnerable populations, reducing cross-subsidisation. [[B in m in s a l in]] At the same time, through the application of existing wage rates for the use of nadrama, additional incomes to support low-income households are being added to the public budget for the natural gas that is being produced for the needs of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u124	Thank you. Please Vojciekhovska Svetlana Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u125	Katzer-Buchovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u126	Katzer-Buchovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u127	I have the next question. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky, People's Front. Say, please, since 2017, you're saying that interest rates will be reduced to 10-20 percent respectively, and a new tax will be introduced, an additional income tax, plus 15 percent. What logic and how does this promote more investment in the gas industry and actually promote the increase in natural gas in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u128	Thank you very much for asking. Yes, indeed, since January 1, 2018, we propose to lower even more interest rates to 20 percent and 10 percent, depending on the depth of the production. In doing so, we offer a new tool, which is used in most countries of the world, is an additional income tax. We don't introduce any new taxes. We're offering an allowance. To calculate the tax base of this allowance, companies involved in gas production will be able to account for the total of the capital costs associated with exploration, intelligence, and new wells. This will stimulate the exploration of new wells that will strengthen our country’s energy independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Question and answer time is complete. Please take your place in the government’s bed. Dear colleagues, the report of the Main Committee, please, under these two laws. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please. Head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u130	On September 16, 2015, the Honourable Head of Nationals, at his meeting of the Committee on Customs and Tax Policy, reviewed Bills No. 2835 on amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cost of Gas for the Population. The rapporteur has in fact already set out the standards laid down in the bill. The members of the committee have indeed, almost unanimously, supported proposals for a reduction in the wage rate for natural gas and the establishment of a zero collection rate in the form of a target supplement to an existing natural gas tariff that is provided to the population. The adoption of the bill will really make it possible to compensate for the tax burden on the companies that are extracting it. In addition, a kind of compromise has been reached and it is proposed not to change the rent rate of 70 per cent for natural gas produced during the implementation of joint activities contracts, but to provide for the application of this rate only to contracts where one of the parties is a state-owned enterprise and/or a State-owned enterprise. I'd like to emphasize for the transcript. The wage rate for natural gas produced during the implementation of joint activities contracts remains valid, that is, 70 percent. And it's complemented by the following words: "one of the participants is a state-owned enterprise and/or an enterprise that has a share of shares and pies of the state." In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a basis and as a whole the bill. Taking into account the comments made by the committee and the technical legal rights. With regard to the following bill, 2352a, which amends the Ukrainian Tax Code for the taxation of natural gas operators. Indeed, the bill is far deeper than 2835. He also paid attention to the future of mining companies. But when the committee considered the following points, such innovations were introduced by the new law. This is a proposal for the introduction of an income tax allowance, which is paid by the owners of special permits for the use of the geological study or extraction of hydrocarbon raw material, in particular natural gas of any origin, which, by 1 January 2018, has not been prepared or approved by a schedule approved by the central executive authority that provides for reform and implements public policy in the oil and gas complex in accordance with the law-defined investment projects for economic activity, and this is a questionable one. In addition, attention was paid to the introduction of advance taxes on corporate income, which have a negative impact on the financial situation of taxpayers, by washing the company’s circulation costs now and in other areas. So when we consider this bill, we've suggested that, in fact, the ideas, the healthy ideas that are set out in this bill, we have to take into account the tax reform project that we are both preparing, and the government. In order for these best standards to be implemented in the form of a basic bill, this is about amending the Tax Code. Therefore, during the vote, members of the committee were divided, and the committee decided not to support the adoption of the draft Law amending the Tax Code (2352a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u131	Nina Petrovna, please ask questions and answers for three minutes. Please sign up. Yuri Derevyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u132	Dear reporter! The next question. If we adopt Bill 2835, it will allow us to reduce the rent on gas production. And please tell me, what absolute figures will this give the economy to reduce the tariff on gas consumers for our population?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u133	So if we're talking about the price of gas for the population, which is 70 percent of the rent, which is, in the view of the Cabinet of Ministers, appropriate today, I would like the Minister to join the debate right now. Because as far as this is concerned, whether it provides an absolute opportunity to reduce the price of gas by 70 percent can be explained by the minister. One thousand 590 — it has 70 percent of the rent. So it's going to be about 1,000, 100 dollars. So I don't understand if you subtract a total of 1,000 100 dollars from 70 percent, can you set that price for gas? Please, only the minister can explain this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Please ask Anna Mikolayevna Hopko. He'll be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u135	I give the word to Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u136	Taras Kutov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u137	Nina Petrovna, if you can, please specify, in Bill 2835 there for all kinds of joint activity, what will be the rent rate? According to Crushing, it is clear, and by joint activity, what will be the rate?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u138	In a joint venture, only if one of the sides is a state or an enterprise owned by a state in the form of a share, a pie or a share, will such enterprises be taxed by a 70 percent rate. All the others, if there are contracts where there are only commercial institutions of the parties to the treaty, the rate is 29 and 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u141	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u142	Sobolje, Fatherland. We are very grateful for the principle of the position expressed by the committee and you are the chairman of the committee. And for us, to be honest, it's not even a question, it's a wish. We are surprised by the position of the government. I understand the position of the Ministry of Finance, which wants to be collected as much as possible, putting even the gas sector in place. But the position of minister, we would also like to hear the position of a profile minister who in the government did not stand for state-owned enterprises to have the same stake that foreign businesses have. Because otherwise, we get into a situation where we stimulate the business of specific oligarchs, and we can call them by the names behind so-called foreign investments, but we're going to put our branch, the Crushing and other state companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Please take your place, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, the second committee is the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. From the committee, please, Olga Belkova, from the committee. Please, three minutes, according to the Rules. Then I will give the minister the opportunity to express his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, let me inform you of this. In fact, on September 16th, both bills were discussed at the tax committee -- and Mrs. Timoshenko, who was initiated, and the one initiated by the Cabinet. Bill 2352 was considered on the PEC Committee and found support. This bill is designed to improve the taxation system of operators involved in the production of gas for commercial purposes. This is his main distinction from Bill 2835. For the period from 01.10.2015 to 31.12.2017, for active investment projects, the total income tax remains 18 per cent and interest rates for the use of nadrama from 55 to 29 respectively and from 28 to 14 per cent respectively. But this bill introduces a new, more attractive investment programme, which provides for a new system from 01.01.2018, which introduces an additional income tax of 15 percent and reduces rent rates to 20 percent and 10 percent respectively. This bill was drafted, including in consultation with representatives of gas companies, and they supported it. The only thing is, all the members of the committee, in their conclusions, were calling on Kabmin to somehow reflect the application of these rates to state companies. These are the fundamental differences between the two bills. Please support Bill 2352. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u145	Please state your profile minister's position, three minutes, please. To the profile committee, three minutes. Olga! Olga! Three minutes to question. Excuse me, colleagues. Please, Minister, 3 minutes, Minister. Minister Demchisin, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for any trouble. I want to answer Mr. Sobolev's questions. In fact, as a minister, from your point of view, I should be in favour of lowering the rent rate. But I want to remind you that this bill was drafted by Minfin, and it's supported by Minenergo after a long discussion. And it wasn't just because we had some internal disputes, we were involved in defining these rates by external experts. There is an American analytic club that has spent more than two months in Ukraine. And these bets, 29 and 14, were affected by a long job. With regard to Crushing. So I fully support Bill 2352. With regard to Crushing. You remember that the rate of 70 percent was calculated solely to generate sufficient resources for the payment of subsidies. And this rate is calculated including investment programs that are agreed upon by the NCRE. Hence, there is no reason for us to say at this time that there is not enough money for the Crushing process to come out of today’s situation. So to the extreme of 15 years, this rate has to stay because it not only provides the budget for the funds, but it's enough to implement those investment programs that are currently being set up and implemented. So there is no reason to humiliate her. By mutual activity and by private enterprises, I have already said that we fully support humiliation. And once again I want to say that the law's written by Minfin, it's more complex, it's more strategic, it's supported not only by local market entities, but also by IMF and other donors. So I want to ask you to support the bill proposed by the government, 2352a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor. Please speak from the factions. Please sign up for the factions, a group of parliaments. Please, Fatherland, Alexandra. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, the moment of truth has come when we now see clearly in the hall who supports foreign investors, who now control about 4 billion cubic metres of gas production, and who supports state companies that produce about 13.5 billion cubic metres of gas. What did the government propose in its "genius" bill? They decided to finally get the Ukrainian gas branch. On October 1st, the government, and for some reason, the minister of energy kept silent, decided that the gas of its own production would now be purchased at the price of the imported gas. You'll think about it: the gas that's taxed, profited, with the payments of all the allowances, is going to be worth about 2,000 dollars, and now it's going to be redeemed by 7 with an extra thousand dollars. The second question. Where, then, can this gas of Ukrainian extraction be released to the left? The answer is this. If you open an appropriate decision, it turns out that if you are a private enterprise with a compressed gas, you have the right to use the gas of your own production for your commercial needs. But, people, after such a government decision, we have to go to the Attorney General of Ukraine! And to call the name Ahmtova, which today turns out to be a foreign investor for which it is decided today to lower the stake for foreign investors called so-called investors. Nobody's forgotten since the Black Sea Coast was captured with gas deposits under what's called an American company? Didn't anybody forget that? Now, after that, they're still allowing them to earn by the schemes of Kurchenk on what's called a creaked gas. Let's name who in this room owns the companies of Kurchenka and the gas! It's direct corruption! I demand the performance of my one - family member, Jehor Sobolev. Their committee is obliged to review such bills in accordance with legislation on corruption. And that's what's important. You have heard the clear position of the profile committee. If the rate remains for joint ventures 70, the national rate is reduced at the general rate. The committee actively supported this. And we, the drafters of the bill, support the position of the profile committee, and we believe that the rate should be made first of all for state companies. Which will allow you to buy Ukrainian gas, not Russian gas. Insert it into Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u149	Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Andrew Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u150	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to point out that people are not interested in our arguments and in the company’s extraction. The gas that enters the population is not written on it by the company that extracts it, nor is it written on it by the country. Today, unfortunately, there is the tariff, the inhumane tariff, which is set for people and the restrictions on the tax rate, which can also be called the word inhumane. People are not interested in what number the bill is, but in what tariffs will be in winter and whether they will be able to winter properly. So the hopers I've spent the last week in meetings asked me to tell her that she's indifferent to state, stateless, not interested in whether the rent will affect the tariff or any other means. They asked the government to submit that after the adoption of the bill, the government was obliged to provide people with affordable gas. I urge you, Your Honor, to vote in 2835. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u151	Please, Opposition Block, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u152	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Unfortunately, this is an economic issue. But there is a great deal of emotion in the presentation of the reporters as well as in the author of the bill. Indeed, these two bills were considered on the profiling committee. But I would like to point out that the 2835 bill, which is now being proposed to vote on the basis, and in the Committee as a whole, in particular, I have commented that taxation of joint activity cannot be carried out on the same terms as taxation of other operators who are producing natural gas for both the population and industry. Why? Because capital investment and investment, which was invested by the State in the development of natural gas extraction crops and which were the result of the abuse of a certain service position that is close to the authority of individuals, is obtained under different conditions. So they just took it, they bought it, they built an enterprise, they created a joint venture, they shared it, and they shared it with their respective gas crops, which were developed by the state. And they suggest that they be taxed at the same level as other organizations. Therefore, I note that Bill 2835 cannot vote in general because it is uncorrected and the drafters do not vote on the bill's amendment to avoid distributing the tax regime, the tax regime for those business operators. For the sake of justice, I would like to point out that the bill proposed by the government is not negative. In any case, in the first case with Bill 2835, in the second case with Bill 2352a, in fact, as rightly pointed out by the report from the faction of Peter Prashenko that, indeed, the population is concerned not at the number of the bill that we are about to vote for, but at the reduction in the level of tax pay for the extraction of natural gas at the end of the consumer, at the tariffs set for the use of natural gas. The government bill, which was proposed by the government, also creates favourable investment conditions for domestic gas companies. In particular, a transitional period of 2 years is established: a reduction, a double reduction of the rent, in accordance with January 1, 2018, is introduced. Yes, it's a universal practice, and it's established. But with the introduction of an additional tax, there is also a doubling of the interest rate. So I propose to vote on these bills as a basis, to redraft them. But in any case, don't vote on any bill in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Igor Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Yuri Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u155	Yuri Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, flag of local elections of majors over the walls of the Supreme Council. At a time when the country is on the path of independence, of gas independence from the Russian aggressor, we register Law 2835. First of all, it's called wrong, this law. It's called "changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Cost of Gas for the Population." In fact, it's supposed to be called tariff cuts and rents for gas companies. And it's not about the population here. What is involved in this law? That the price of gas for the population is actually going to be reduced, but only by 10-15 percent. That's about 1,000 or 1,200 dollars. So the population is going to pay for a cubic meter of gas 5.50-5. 70 bucks for a cube. But we can forget about the 3.60 tax on gas, which is 200 cubes for the population, and we can forget about subsidies. Because today the budget has a figure of 24 billion dollars, which is filled with rents. So the law is populist. Someone is taking responsibility for the country today, someone is involved in politics and criticism. I call on all the factions of Parliament, whether they join the coalition or not, not to support the bill, but to support the government. Which is consistent, constructive and lowers the cost of rent over three years. I'm asking everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to go to a colleague from the People's Front and to government representatives, especially those who have been heard in these walls, about the fact that raising the rent to 70 percent on Crushing would be like forming the necessary financial resources to make payments. So let us be guided by the language of numbers and facts, not by political slogans. That is, today Naftogaz owed the Crushing for the gas he buys in Crushing, 8 billion dollars. And Crushing owed the budget an order of 6 billion dollars, respectively. That's not the end of the story. Crushing was forced along with the DFS to contract debt restructuring of 36 percent of the year-olds. So, please tell me, who are you misleading by telling us that 70 percent is the source of the budget for social pay? Maybe it's the source of the budget for the money that Crushing doesn't get from Naftogaz? This is the first thesis. The second is that there will be no effect on the population. Once again, I think we all have enough education, including math, if we make basic calculations with you and take the right price, which is set to "Smalling" 70 percent and proposed 29. So you and I have a price going down actually twice, and it has to have a direct impact on the price that the population is going to pay. Because the government told us that the price for the population is medium. So let's just count and see what this is going to do to people. Let's not forget that we have to think and care primarily about people and that they have to pay a fair price for gas. So we, the Self-Help faction, unreservedly support the one-amendment MP's bill, ask the chairman accordingly to announce that there will be 70 percent of the rent for joint ventures where there are state-owned enterprises with a share of more than 50 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u159	Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u160	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Clearly, the law that is appropriate needs to be considered and made today's decision, because the whole country is waiting, we have a heated season on our noses, and the accounts that are coming to citizens today are not commensurate with their income. And in order for us to be a Parliament for the people, not for Parliament, we have to review it. There are two alternative bills. Obviously, today's rent cut needs to be supported, because that's going to lower the tariff, whatever we're told, 10 percent or 15 percent. People sometimes lack 10 bracelets to buy food, and we're talking about a thousand and a half that you can or can't give -- you have to give, if that's what we're doing today. Unfortunately, I can tell you today that the Cabinet of Ministers, which counted and last year's rent, was not driven by any figures, they were calculating from some ceiling and today they're asking questions about their recalculation, because they've collapsed the industry itself, and we've started to reduce the production of gas. And this is also very dangerous for the country, because we're becoming more import-dependent on the currency component than the gas. So today this law is on time, and the Radical faction will definitely support the MPs' bill as one that reflects more of the interests of the Ukrainian community. But I would like to point out one more question. We're talking about rent, but we have a big corruption mechanism in the person of Naftogazu Ukraine, who is today scraping off a 45 percent man in the gas wager. And for today, we have to say that this structure doesn't produce gas, it doesn't transport gas, it doesn't sell gas, but it collects the largest part of the tariff, and it's always a waste. I mean, it's time for Naftegaza. I believe and our faction supports that today we must move to European market forms of gas sales through the gas exchange, and there should be no oil-gas flooring. The free market for selling and buying at market prices in the free market is the only way to save the Ukrainian people from the corruption component that was created in the country today. And unfortunately, in 25 years, no Cabinet of Ministers would want to break it because it's their food. So you have to take responsibility, figure it out, and then, really, we're going to make the tariffs that the Ukrainian people deserve, and it's going to support every MP who's going to stand up for that. Thank you for understanding. We're for the MP's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u161	National MP Kulinic, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u162	Oleg Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Party, Poltavščina. Honorable colleagues, extremely important bills. But all we're talking about is the size of the rent that's going to go to the state budget and which ultimately has to cost the population gas. And it is certainly an important question and needs to be maintained. But there's another aspect to this question -- the local budgets. Today, all wages from oil and gas production go to the state budget. Local budgets don't get a penny. At the same time, gas production in areas such as Poltavščina breaks roads, destroys infrastructure, and worsens ecology. 90 percent of roads are in such a state that they need to be repaired. In fact, in the last session of the Poltava District Council, the issue of the transfer of oil - gas areas for industrial development was blocked in the queue. And people can be understood because there are storm surpluses in their villages, and there is no compensation for this, let alone, for any income. These local problems are now not being addressed by the state at all. And now there are 3038 Bills in the Supreme Council and 3038-1. I'm an alternate author. Both bills suggest that part of the rent be left in local budgets. They too need to be considered and accepted immediately. So the MP's Rebirth Party Group will demand a fair redistribution of rent to local budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, "Will of the People" Group, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u164	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, judging with the attitude of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and parts of the House of Deputies, this vital law awaits the veto in the event of its positive decision. I think that's the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of this, I have a question for the Cabinet of Ministers. Does the minister know, and does he feel that municipal tariffs account for more than 60 percent of the population’s income? And does the minister know that people just survive? And does the Cabinet of Ministers suggest anything in this regard? Absolutely not. They only talk about reforms that make people worse. Apparently, the Cabinet of Ministers is an operator of the International Monetary Fund. And they keep trying to convince me that international audiences have said that these tariffs are fair. There is no absolute objection. Obviously, they are because they are much higher in the West. And you please hire international audiences, and let them figure out if you can live on a thousand, a thousand, 200 dollars. And as long as we're in the districts, I'm talking to major MPs when we're talking directly to people when we get letters, and the woman says, "I'm bedridden, I'm a first group invalid. I can't live, I don't want to live, let me have a drink so I can sleep and not wake up in the morning." So let us consider together what decisions we must make to support people, taking into account the difficult situation. So to my deep conviction, we're obviously going to make this decision today, but it's not going to work, because the commission that sets the tariffs stands as advocates of the Brest Fortress, they think they're absolutely carrying the truth. I think the Supreme Council should probably still listen to this commission and make decisions that would allow people to survive, given the difficult situation. Our group will support the first bill, I mean the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to proceed to the vote. Please, from the non-faulty. Let's make three speeches from the deputies. Two minutes, please sign in. Three speeches from the deputies for two minutes. Then the closing word, two narrators after the closing word. Please, Yuri Bublik, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u166	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u167	Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u168	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well how much this issue concerns Ukrainian society and ordinary Ukrainians today. Wherever you go, people ask one question: How can they survive a thousand dollars of retirement or a minimum wage, pay for such utilities, and especially such tariffs on gas that are now seven times higher than in the previous year. People are horrifyingly waiting for autumn, they're horrifyingly waiting for winter, they don't know how they're going to pay the fares. So, of course, our task with you is to do everything we can to protect our people. We think that these prices, these tariffs are economically unwarranted. And it was very well represented here on the table that this kind of income would practically take away its own production of Ukrainian gas, because our state companies, they're just being cost-effective, and they're not extracting, they're not increasing the number of crops, and they're not reducing their own gas production, and in turn, Ukraine is becoming increasingly dependent on the Russian Federation. It seems that the government is deliberately doing so, especially in order to make Ukraine dependent on Russia once again. So our task today is to support the MP's bill, which Julia Volodymyrna has demonstrated here, believing that this law will make it possible to lower the price for the population, because it's what people are asking us to do today. We must, as deputies, protect the production of our own gas companies, including state companies, rather than just foreign companies, as the government bill stipulates. So our political power, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will vote on this bill and we will support it. And I'm also asking you to finally consider in the walls of Parliament our bill, which we've been initiating to make the gas of our own production, cheap Ukrainian gas go first to the needs of the Ukrainian people, not to the oligarchs. So I urge you to support me. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u169	Please, Maxim Burbak. Sergey Droeuk, People's Front, he's about to pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a statement on the position of members of the People's Front. We've seen today how the economic issue is starting to become political as the parties that are going to the elections are starting to use it in political rhetoric to win cheap political dividends, as they forget about what the government is doing to jump out of the gas needle, the lock we've been carrying out since 2009, and we've already heard a week ago when we were told that the losses of signing gas contracts are over $26 billion, and now we're starting again to open up the gas theme before the election. Enough with the populism. These bills should be considered, adopted in the first reading. I propose to support the government, then to reconcile all positions, after the election. Not in elections to raise your rating, which is constantly falling. That's why. And by the way, they said there was nothing to pay people. So the subsidy, if people get it, The payment for the HKG is more than 10 percent, and there is a state subsidy, which is supplemented by a rent on gas. So I propose to go to today's vote with a sober head, to support the government bill and to put a fat dot back on the impact of "gas" oligarchs on Ukraine's gas market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u171	People's Deputy River, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u173	Please, Katzer-Buchkowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we actually understand. And there is a deep and systematic reform of the natural gas market. And we understand that self-sustainment gas is one of the solutions that can provide energy security for the state. So everyone understands that we have to somehow stimulate our own gas production. In particular, Bill 2352, which was supported by the Fuel, Energy Committee, provides such a systematic approach to solving the fiscal problems of the sector and investing. First of all, this is a reduction in the rate of interest for the transitional period from 55 percent to 29 percent before, From 28 percent to 14 percent for gas production. And what's more important, over the long term, is that it allows gas companies, first of all, to pay more taxes to the State budget. Because it's a one-sided solution, we also have to put in place a long-term mechanism so that the budget will receive income from gas companies in the form of an allowance of 15 percent in two years. So this is one of the priorities and one of the benefits of a government bill, including. I would also like to point out that in the process of reforming the natural gas market, we cannot apply non-market mechanisms and allow ourselves to stop this reform. Therefore, it is vital that we approach this matter in a systematic and correct way. A government-supported project supported by the Association of Ukrainian Gas Workers is primarily supported by the International Monetary Fund. And fiscal regime research has been conducted for 4-5 months by international experts who have world experience in what way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please conclude, Julia Timoshenko, three minutes. And then from the Cabinet of Ministers, there's also a three-minute reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! Now you have two bills. One bill is government law, where for foreign investors in paws, and for their own oligarchs, who I believe are in favour of government law and will vote, are created to pay. The government is given the right to regulate the income tax manually. At the same time, the entire state sector of gas production is being destroyed, leaving 70 percent of the wage. In addition, government law leaves tariffs at the same level for people on gas and heat as they are today. And there's an MP's bill, and there's Parliament's consolidation around it. Which raises the state's gas sector. And what's being done on Moscow's agenda -- completely destroying our Crushing -- is something we can't miss! Because it is the Kremlin’s convenience that we do not get a thousand cubic feet [1,000 m] of our own gas! And so the MP's law gives exactly the tax system for foreign investors, as well as for Ukrainian manufacturing companies, is equal! At the same time, the parliamentary bill leaves 70 percent for joint ventures under the insistence of the committee. At the same time, the MP bill reduces tariffs for people to gas and heat. And that's why you're making a worldview choice now, not just voting. And by the name of whoever votes, I'm sure they'll be in the media for years and every person who's elected you to Parliament. If government law is upheld today, you support the oligarchy and destroy the state branch. Think about it. This is the most important choice we can make right now. Our sovereignty rests on our energy independence, including our own. Protect Ukraine, not by means of languages, but by voting. And I think that then Ukraine can, in fact, have a national parliament, not a comprador who is voting for the need for an oligarchy. I thank all the deputies for supporting the bill. We are now asking him to put it to a vote as defined by the committee as a basis and as a whole, and I ask everyone to support it. Thank you. 2835.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u177	Please, from the government, Deputy Minister Helen MacKeev. Final word, please, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u178	Dear National MPs, in fact these two bills are very similar to those aimed at lowering interest rates and caring for the population. But I want to point out that the government has gone far beyond that. Because the government is proposing to lower even higher rent rates, thus strengthening our country’s energy independence. So I'm asking you to support a comprehensive bill that is supported today by business and professional associations and government, number 2352a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. We have two draft laws. During the discussion, I think that everyone has formed a position on voting for these important bills. Also, two warnings were made regarding the voting of these draft laws on the basis of the National Deputy of Debenkov and the National Deputy of Burbak. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I will now put to the vote the draft Law registration number, in the order of coming, 2835 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cost of Gas for the Population (2835). Taking into account the amendment announced by Victoria Vojcitsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, the committee head announced, Eugene. Announced the amendment of Eugene. With Jujanina's amendment, yes, she announced it from the rostrum. So I'm putting this bill on the ground. There are already three comments on the vote. Victor Pinzenic, too. Based on the base. Please vote 2835 as a basis. [[14:06:40]] For 217 This bill is not accepted. 2352a, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Taxation of Natural Gas Subjects (Registration No. 2352a, Government). Also, colleagues, there were warnings. Let's put it on the base. Please prepare for the vote. We're voting on the basis. Based on the base. Based on the base. Based on the base. [[14:07:28]] For-166 No bill has obtained the required number of votes. Dear fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, in accordance with the Rules, we have the opportunity to return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, come on, be careful. Please be careful. We just voted with you two draft laws: one 2835. [[B in m in s a l in]] 2352a and 2835a. 2835 and 2352. None of these draft laws have obtained the necessary number of votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm making an offer, colleagues, for bringing these bills back to the developer. If he doesn't get this position in the number of votes, then we'll consult. I'm in line with the Rules, don't go anywhere. Please return 2835 to the developer for processing. 2835, please, colleagues. Back to the developer, please vote. 2835 for the developer's return to processing. He doesn't get the number of votes. [[14:09:28]] Z-87 They didn't. The next 2352a for getting back to the developer for processing, please. [[14:09:50]] For-142 And now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal of the people's deputies to return to the consideration of these two bills: 2835 and 2352a. Please identify yourself. We'll hold consultations now, and then we'll vote if we come back. [[14:10:22]] For 241 There were 241, respected colleagues. Please. And now, dear fellows, we're with you now. Please draft Law 2835 as a basis. Based on the base. [[14:11:00]] For 228 228 – Decision adopted. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, before I declare this morning's meeting closed, please remain in your seats. We have a few organizational issues. Fellow national deputies, please come back, we have some organizational issues. I invite you to the words of Paul Pinzenik, please head of the regulatory committee. Calm down, take your seats, please. Please, Your Honor, Paul Pinzenik, please. Colleagues, I ask the deputies to remain seated. Committee-gathering issues and everything. Please. Let's start with the calendar plan. We've already discussed it, colleagues, it's about doing one week of 12 to 18 committee work. We have two thousand laws that we need to look at on committees and identify at least a dozen of them as priorities on each committee, or we'll never get out of this. I'm betting on the voting calendar as a whole. A calendar plan. Colleagues, take your seats! We've already discussed it, the calendar plan as a whole, colleagues, calm down, the calendar plan, we're voting in general, please, the calendar plan, changes to the calendar plan [[14:12:52]] For the 220. One more time, 220, colleagues. We're voting on the calendar plan. Please vote changes to the calendar. Please vote. Calendar plan, we vote. [[14:13:14]] For 234 Decision taken. One minute, fellow believers, we still have three positions related to committee members, our colleagues, and they cannot start working on the committees: the Health Committee. We voted on the calendar as a whole, 234 votes. Please, Paul Pinzenik. Listen carefully, this applies. The organizational issue is the work of committees, such as the Health Committee, other committees that are important. We still have two deputies, Lucenko, a national deputy and Nemirowski, I think. Let's go from March, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, this is the draft Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 3116) on the application of Berezenka, a national MP, to elect him as a member of the Ukrainian Health Committee. The committee proposes to support the draft of the above-mentioned decision (No. 3116), which provides for the election of the national MP Berezenka as a member of the Health Committee, taking into account that the calculated quota for the MP's "Peter Prashenko Block" in the committee is not fully used. Please determine how to vote and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m0.u181	Colleagues, please remain seated, we vote in favour of the amendments to the committees that have been announced, 3116. Vote. National deputies have the right to constitutional work on committees, please support this initiative. [[14:15:00]] For 176 I see. Dear colleagues, we will return to this matter at the evening meeting. And now I'm calling this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you for your attention.
