ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the start of work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Yesterday was a very busy day, distinguished deputies, distinguished colleagues, in the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm asking for your attention! There was an incident in the towers. I would like to emphasize once again that it is absolutely unacceptable when any misunderstanding is resolved by the physical influence between the members of the Supreme Council, and more so when it comes to a man and a woman. I categorically condemn any form of violence, any form of violence against a person, especially when it comes to a woman. I think everyone in this room is following this approach. I therefore urge that what happened yesterday be fully investigated, and the Ukrainian Parliament has drawn the right conclusions from the conclusion to be drawn. Once again, let's not assume any physical influence between the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and society as a whole. And another position, now I'm going to give the women's representatives the floor to speak out of this rostrum. But I would like to go back to yesterday's issue of order of the day, honourable colleagues, regarding visa-free treatment. We moved yesterday so that we wouldn't lose important decisions for Tuesday -- five laws on visa-free regimes, gas rents and a moratorium on land sales. I have made this decision because I have seen no results in voting, but I ask you not to lose Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday for the joint position of MPs and factions and for a consolidated vote on Tuesday so that we can give all the opportunities for Ukraine and for Ukrainians to move freely to the territory of the European Union without a visa and this is the responsibility of every Ukrainian national deputy, anyone who votes in favour or against. There are clear directives of the European Union. There are draft laws, please work on them. I would like to stress that for almost a fourth week these laws have been in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. The same thing, I ask in a consolidated fashion to move to a gas rent vote, to lower this rent and to continue the moratorium on agricultural land, is our duty with you. So I'm talking to the faction leaders, to all the people's deputies: secure the presence of the deputies on Tuesday, and by Tuesday, ensure the participation of the people's deputies in committee meetings, if that's what it takes, or thematic working groups to take a joint position. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Let's log in, please turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:15:10]] 294 people currently registered. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Before we start "an hour of questions to the government," I want to give women the opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian Parliament, namely: Olga Cervakova. May I have your attention, Your Honor? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u3	Good morning, dear fellows! I regret to say that this morning is not good. Yesterday there was a covert, disgraceful incident when the representative of Teteruk hit our colleague, Alexander Kugel, with a bottle in his head, a woman 62 years old. We, the women of Parliament, and all those who are outraged by this incident, ask you to come out here now and support the position that we consider unacceptable. Yesterday after this incident, Alexander Cugel was taken to the hospital, she had a concussion, she had a bump on her forehead, she felt very bad, she had a BP of 220. We are now gathered to question the witnesses of this incident. Stepan of Cuba -- a person who is not one of the factions that are members of the MPs who took part in this conflict -- confirmed to us that yesterday, really, no one made it to the bottle, no one jumped on the throat, but there was a blow to the head with this bottle. So it's a special cynicism that's all the speculation that someone there, somehow it just happened that someone put pressure on a bottle, that sort of thing. And so 40 times, and so on to the concussion. Dear colleagues, I urge you to refrain from such conversations at all. We are a political elite, we are setting an example for all society. Society looks at us and acts as we do. If we show examples of violence, and if we even assume that this is possible in our society, nothing will happen in this country. A year and a half ago, the Dignity Revolution took place. This applies, yes, to both women and men, regardless of sex and age. A year and a half ago, the Dignity Revolution took place. People stood up to violence. What is happening now in Parliament has nothing to do with dignity. We, the national deputies, who are outraged by this, have registered two decrees of the Supreme Council. First, we call on the Teteruk MP, who has taken such action, to voluntarily impose parliamentary powers for acts that are incompatible with the status of the national MP, for gross violation of the MP's ethics. By our second determination, we are talking about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u4	Finish up, please. Keep going. Please, Olga, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u5	The second decision is to remove the MP's in touch with the representative of Teteruk. In order for a comprehensive investigation to take place completely without emotion and for law enforcement authorities to give their assessment of what took place. I want to apologize to the Ukrainian voters who, unfortunately, have witnessed such disgraceful and unfortunate behaviour of Ukrainian parliamentarians. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Our colleagues demand that it be said that all the participants in this conflict have behaved improperly, and that is indeed the case. No MP, none! - has no right to aggressive behavior. Anyone who calls himself a national deputy should hold himself in his arms, regardless of whether he's a man or a woman. But once again, my personal position: to talk about what someone provoked, a woman provoked a man to hit her in the head with a bottle, is like justifying a rapist who says he was provoked by a girl who was wearing a short skirt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! There's another performance. Please, Yuri, who, I can't see. There's Andrew Theteruk in the hall, asking for his word. Please, out of the way. Please. Please, Teteruk Andry, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u7	Honourable Head of the Ukrainian Parliament, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainian people! This incident, which occurred yesterday, will certainly come to my conclusions. But the important thing is that we today need to know, personally, the political elite present in this Parliament, that in all our actions, we must maintain our inner dignity and speak the truth in all our words. More than anything else, over emotion, over the events that are taking place. I'm extremely sorry that the incident itself has become possible independently of which party has taken part. Yesterday, according to Paternity's statement, the prosecution of the Attorney-General's Office began. I explained completely and honestly everything that happened before and after the events began. I am absolutely open and honest to cooperate with the investigating authorities so that Ukrainian society understands the circumstances under which this incident took place. I very much ask all the MPs, first of all, to remain calm, second of all, not to take personal offenses, third of all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Third, third.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u8	Friends! Friends! Colleagues! Dear colleagues, calm down. The power is not to scream, but to listen. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u9	Thank you. Thirdly, we all need to understand that in order for whatever goals are being pursued, we have one goal: to build our Ukraine in a way that we have a European future. The investigation, the investigation, will show who is to blame. And I'm willing to suffer punishment if I'm guilty. To date, we need to ensure the adoption of the entire package of bills that were broken yesterday. Once again, I offer my official apologies to society for witnessing this incident. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, we have an hour of questions to the government. Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I think it would be right now to give the word of Alexandra Volodymyrni Kugel the answer to what is now being said. But she's just not in the hall, she was taken by "Quick Help" yesterday, and she's been diagnosed with a concussion. And this person who's twice the age of a man who hit her with a bottle is like hitting his own. And so if we have moral doubts as to who is to blame in Parliament, I'm going to ask Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel to withdraw all her claims to the police, because, if you can still, morally investigate, figure out what direction the angle is. I think we should ask her to give up any of her claims. And I want to say that if, yes, that's the situation, maybe she'll apologize to Mr. Teteruck for causing him to do something. And I can say that if that's allowed, that means that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u12	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u13	That we allow it to our mothers, in relation to our wives. Put yourself in her place, Alexander Volodymyr's husband or two sons. How would you react if your wife, sister, or mother were hit with a bottle on the head? And thank you. Glass bottle. And I thank Stepan Kubi, who the dignity of his inner man and man simply allowed him to give true evidence, and he said that he beat not by chance, but by accident, but by beating the bottom of the bottle. And so if there are moral doubts in Parliament, Alexander Volodymyrna will call off all claims at the request of our faction, there's no need for the police to investigate, there's simply to be people in this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u14	Thank you. We've concluded this discussion, colleagues. I'm asking you, we've got an hour of questions for the government. I invite you to speak, brief information, Gennadia Zubka, Vice Prime Minister. You know that the Prime Minister is on his way. Gennady Zubko, please provide information on events in eastern Ukraine. Please, 10 minutes. And then, and then 10 minutes later, there's going to be two speeches by the ministers, Zhdanov Igor and Yuri Stetz. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable chairman, the head of Parliament, the honourable presidency, the honourable colleagues, I would like to calm down a little bit, first of all. Secondly, to remind ourselves that we live together not only in the Supreme Council, but we live together in a country where today there is military aggression, which today has issues that need to be addressed both in the Supreme Council and in government and in all our district councils. I would like to remind you that today is not a simple situation after a diversion in the city of Luhansk Region and today it is the people in eastern Ukraine who are expecting support in the bill, in your decisions to stabilize the situation. The town of Svatovo. After a diversion at military warehouses, a commission, an expert study, helped to establish the number of damaged buildings, social facilities, individual objects, and multiple floors. It was the expert commission that did those defective acts and those surveys that helped to set the level and extent of the damage, as well as those damages that needed to be sent from the contingency fund and sent help to the local budget from the government. Today the situation is stable and I thank all of the services that have joined, first of all, the emergency rescue work on the restoration of housing systems and literally the next day the water supply, water supply, gas supply, electricity, and heat supply were restored. And I'd also like to thank all the people in Svatovo who have shown, and I'll say that the civil position on the grounds that they understand that there are diversions is misery, but they didn't allow the facts of the robbery, they didn't allow any increase in protest sentiments, and together, as a team, with law enforcement agencies, with the State Emergency Service, they worked to overcome the first consequences of the disaster. Today, the situation is under control, the city of Svatov already has construction companies that have joined the reconstruction of 20 social sites, 59 multistory floors, and over 540 individual dwellings that have suffered during this diversion. But the work being done today by construction brigades is practically broken down into graphs, each object being taken into account is the involvement of the Railroad with those workers, by their employees, to help rebuild them. The run-in movement is already in progress after the Crucifixion and the resupply of almost all the products and all the questions that apply to fuel-oil materials. Every day the train goes to the city of Kupiyansk, from the city of Svatova, and therefore, in principle, the normal activity of the city is restored. There are problems today with kids who go to school who have to go in two changes in terms of what's going on at 8th and 1st schools, but there's already work going on there. And I think in literally two weeks we'll be able to restore a lifetime full of schools. What I'd like to do and ask in general is today there are national MPs who are directly elected majority of Eastern Ukraine, from Donetsk and Lugansk. There are Kharkiv National Deputies today, the days of the propellers, and I thank, by the way, Kharkiv for actively joining in the rescue and rescue work, and in addition to providing their experts, they've practically recruited gas recovery brigades to Swatovo City. I would like to simply unite and work with our international partners, who are providing humanitarian assistance so that they and the aid can be concentrated and targeted in Swatovo and Swatovo. Today, there are no urgent problems that prevent the city from functioning or that are critical in the city. But the question of how the city's viability will be restored, how the infrastructure will be restored depends on working together, and on government, on national MPs, and on other government agencies. So I would like to thank the people of Swatova once again, thank all the rescue workers for their active work together, and say that today the government, along with the Supreme Council and the inhabitants, citizens, Ukrainians living in the Lugansk region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u16	Thank you. I invite you to the word Igor Zhdanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u17	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian Citizens! Let me tell you what's going on in the Ministry of Youth and Sports that are being reformed there. First of all, despite a rather difficult financial and economic situation, the state has kept a great sport. This is confirmed by Ukraine’s successful performance at the first European games in Baku. The Ukrainians won 46 prizes: 8 gold, 14 silver, and 24 bronze medals. This is the fifth place for the number of medals won among the 50 countries of Europe. Over the course of the year, our athletes won over 1,900 medals and more than 650 gold awards at international competitions, and received 101 licences to participate in the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. The government and the President are doing their best to support our leading athletes. Under the Prime Minister and President Minmolodsport's mandate, he doubled the premiums for European Games. Now our athletes get 50,000 dollars for gold, 40,000 dollars for silver and 25,000 dollars for bronze. The government has established 75 scholarships for outstanding Olympic and Paralympic trainers. The president issued decrees to support 250 prominent Olympics and the Paralympics. The other one. Much attention has been paid to upgrading sports inventory and form that has not been carried out in the last four years. Focused offers on sports inventory for. 14 million bracelets, including sports gymnastics, water jumping, fighting, field shooting, and other sports. A tender has been announced for the purchase of sports form almost on. It's worth 5 million dollars. Third. We're working on preserving mass and child sports in Ukraine. You know, in DUSH there are 500,000 young Ukrainians, these are the basic centers of leisure, physical culture and healthy lifestyles, now a step further on the road to higher achievement sport. In 2015, 534 PRSPs were transferred from the Social Insurance Fund to local budgets. It was a very difficult process, but we managed to avoid systemic errors in its conduct, save schools and secure funding, including with your help, when a subsidy of 100 million dollars was allocated through Ukraine's government budget to support these children's sports schools. I would like to report that, as a result of the ministry’s efforts, for the first time in recent years, the Kyiv Palace of Sports has returned to the ice, the Ukraine Championship has begun, and a youth championship of Ukraine has begun. Is this the first time he's ever been on a big ice in years of independence? Children's sports schools are being trained at Sokol, Ukraine and others. It began and began, and a basketball championship was held in Ukraine. We're planning to host the Ukrainian Championship on a figure-kicking basis, not on a doorway, but at the central sports palace in Kiev. Four. The Ministry has developed and is actively implementing a road map of reforms in the field of physical culture and sports. The key objective of sport reform is to build a European model of state and sport relations. In particular, the Ministry has waived excessive functions that are not available to the Ministry in other countries. The relevant bills have been drafted and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. Ask the people’s deputies to consider and approve them. Fifth. The sport was as transparent as possible. We switched exclusively to electronic purchases if these volumes amount to 200,000 dollars. We publish on the website information on all budget expenditures of the Ministry, budget programs, orders to conduct competitions and assemblies that have financial burdens, we also publish all the reporting, the financial and economic reporting of state-owned enterprises. An automatic and transparent formula for financing Olympic sports has been introduced. I mean, it's not like a minister who allocates money between different kinds of sports. This is done automatically, taking into account the achievements of athletes and the number of participants and supporters of any kind of sport. The National Anti - Doping Rules, already approved by the World Anti - Doping Agency, have been developed and approved. Six. We're going to increase the autonomy of national sports federations. We are now conducting a pilot project with the following federations: basketball, heavy athletics, easy athletics, water jumping. These public organizations have been given more authority but also greater responsibility for spending public funds and for the results they achieve. Seven. The Ministry has developed a road map for youth reform. This is the result of working together with the Reanimation Package of Reforms, the Reform Centre of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and youth social organizations. The government also approved the concept of a state-of-the-art social programme "The Young Ukraine" for the years 2015-2020. For the first time in six years, a thorough sociological study of "The Young Ukraine: 2015" has been conducted with the support of the United Nations, which has given us more insight into young people's problems. Eight. The Ministry of Support for the United Nations Development Programme has launched innovative projects in the youth field. Sportifai is information about sports infrastructure around you. Youth worker program, joint training for government officials and levels. And young leaders. The "My Career" portal, which allows you to pass pro-information tests and young people will be able to get information about their inclinations and careers. The "My Career" portal is running this informational test. Nine. For the first time in recent years, we have conducted a totally transparent competition to support youth projects. But we're going to change the support system of youth organizations, and we've already made appropriate proposals for changing the Cabinet of Ministers' scholarship and the Cabinet of Ministers' youth bonus, as well as the President's grant system to support the gifted youth. We also asked the Prime Minister to consider such a proposal as financing youth organisations through endowments. So there's some funding from a youth organization, and it puts it on a deposit with a government bank, and it's getting interest on funding its projects. The Ministry is also working to increase the mobility of Ukrainian youth. The recent Youth Exchange Agreement between Ukraine and Poland and Lithuania, which will allow our young people to travel more freely in Europe, to carry out joint projects with the youth organizations of Lithuania and Poland. We are also working on other agreements with European countries. And the last. The Ministry plays an active role in national and patriotic education for young people along with the Ministry of Education. It's a matter of national security today. We have created a specialized department of national patriotic education. In addition to the Ministry of Defence, Spartacus was reborn among attractive youths. Along with the Ministry of Education, there's a military-patriot child-to-child game called Sokol. And the last. The following year should be the year of the restoration of Ukraine’s sports infrastructure. If these things didn't sound utopian, but I'm constantly in the regions of Ukraine, I'm dealing with one thing: stadium collapse, pool collapse, and constant requests to help rebuild these sports facilities. We managed this year through the Regional Development and Activity Fund and the Ministry of Regional Development, and Vice-Prime Minister Gennady Zubka, and the activities of the Hmelny District Administration to allocate five million dollars for reconstruction, the reconstruction of the District Division Stadium. The Ministry also allocated 2.5 million dollars to rebuild the Avantgard Stadium in Montenegro. And that was where the athletic tracks were laid. My dream, I think. Which we will implement with you so that there will be a full stadium in every district center, wherever there is. And you could also play football, and you had an athletic core. This is the first step towards restoring sports infrastructure. Thank you for your attention, and I hope for fruitful cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u18	Thank you very much. The questions will be for you later, but please prepare for them. And now I give the floor to Minister Yuri Stecz. Are you going to speak out of place, Mr. Yuri?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u19	No, it's not. I want to speak to the chairman and the national deputies. Today's questions are about social television, we have this question raised by Deputy Minister Artem Bidenko, I would ask him to make a report, and then I'm ready to answer these questions and other questions about the Ministry's work, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u20	Parliament does not object to your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u22	Please, Deputy Minister, please make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Good afternoon! Questions that have been sent by the Ministry of Information Policy and that relate to the beginning of the work of the social language. "Have calculations been made as to what funding is needed to start and work a social language?" In order to determine the real need for budget funding for the social language spending next year, the National Television Company of Ukraine made calculations and connections with all the organizations to enter the social language, and in preparing a budget request for the 2016 State Budget project, it provided this information to the main cost manager, the State Telecomeradio. These figures came from the Ministry of Information Policy. The real need for funding under the State budget of Ukraine for a successful start-up and start-up of the social language at the right level should be at least two and a half billion dollars. At the same time, article 14, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Social Television and Broadcasting Act states that the provision of Ukrainian national social television is made at the expense of Ukraine's state budget for four years from the date of its entry into force. The state ensures the proper existence of NHRIs, which represents at least 0.2 percent of the expenditure of the general fund of the state budget of Ukraine in the previous year. Appropriately for 2016, this amount should amount to 1 billion 75 million dollars, a little less, 50 percent less than the national social television company. As for the second question, what funding is actually provided for the social language for the following year. The figures were also made available by the National Television Company of Ukraine and Derzkomteleradio and worked along with our ministry. During the preparation of the budget request for the 2016 State Budget project, MINFIN has been led by the State Committee to produce a marginal amount of budgetary funding for a programme called "Produration and Broadcasting of Radio Programmes for Public Needs". Under this programme, funding is planned for the social language for the creation and operation of Ukraine’s National Social Television Company, 661 million dollars. This is much less than the amount that was listed and prescribed in the relevant law. And if you're right, it's 3.7 times. But one and a half times less than the defined amount of funding provided for in article 3, paragraph 3, of the Social Television and Broadcasting Act. So the marginal amount of the unaccounted for in accordance with this law is 381 million dollars. This provision of start-up funding for the work of the social language in 2016 was considered at the Conciliation Councils of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, with the participation of the representatives of Minfin, Derzkomteladio, NTKU, other radio organizations to enter the social language. Our ministry also offered its suggestions, its comments on the planned expenditure. It was decided to take measures to achieve funding in 2016 up to the level set, i.e. 0.2 from the expenditure of the consolidated budget fund for the previous year. In addition, additional meetings were held in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance, where understanding and support were addressed. Currently, the National Television of Ukraine expects that, during the 2016 review of the State Budget, the amount of budget funding for the successful start-up and start-up of NSOs will be approved in the amount of the statutory rule, namely, 0.2 per cent of the expenditure of the general budget of the State budget of Ukraine in the previous year. Our ministry fully supports these expectations and does everything possible to get the social language started and started with these budget expenditures provided for by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u24	Thank you, dear fellows. Please sit down. We now have 30 minutes of questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please prepare for the recording. And I want to remind you, colleagues, it's not a matter of factions, it's a question of MPs. I will act according to the Rules and according to the record that if there are questions that are not from us, they will be irrelevant. Prepared to record? Prepared to record. I'm asking you to record a question to the government. Please log in. Thank you. Fir's Yegor Pavlovich, Peter Prashenko's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Government, I have some questions about the Donetsk region. More than a year ago, the Donbass Recovery Agency, it didn't make any money, it did. More than four months ago, the head of the agency was appointed, but not by the staffing table, not by the employees, nor by the fact that the agency had not received the premises. Well, what I'm saying is, in fact, the head of the agency doesn't even have his own motivation, man doesn't have a salary. I have a question for the Government: when does the Donbass Recovery Agency plan to make some money, and we can look at the results fully? And the second question. What is the socio-economic situation in Swatov? And what's particularly interesting is the question of information breakups, let's say, well, information policy? What are people looking at? And do the Ukrainian channels in this territory show?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. First of all, I can tell. Yeah, the agency's really made. He's the designated head of this agency. Now there are suggestions from him on his two substitutes. The building he's working in is now working in the premises of the Ministry of Development and Construction. You know, it's a procedural problem for the creation of any central executive authority, it's not just about the Donbas Agency, but it's about other of our newly created central authorities as a State-of-the-art consumer. Yes, it's about three months to create an agency and approve a budget receipt, to transfer funds from the Ministry of Finance and to pay wages, and to execute mandates. But I'm going to say that the agency is working today, and they have a budget statement. And most importantly, Vadim Olegovich Chernish is taking a very active part in the work of preparing papers in general and working with those agencies that are working today after the restoration of Donbas. He is taking an active part in the negotiations on Minsk today and in those practically groups that have been created in different directions -- social, economic. He is taking a very active part in negotiations today with our international partners, who are helping not only humanitarian but also technical assistance. You know, it's because of his work today that the Swiss government is providing responses to the Donbas utility. And almost 300 tons of reagents have already been placed there. In addition, he is practically in charge of all projects related to both KfV and the European Investment Bank on the basis of an extraordinary Donbas programme. And so the active participation of this agency began. As far as the town of Svatov is concerned. The situation is socially stable because of the joint work of the inhabitants of Svatova, the Ukrainians who take an active patriotic position there, and of all the authorities and executive authorities. Yesterday, I spoke directly to Eugene Viktorovich Rybalko, the city’s head of Svatovo and the head of the district council, as well as to our head of the regime, Mr. Azernov, who works in the Swatian regime. The situation is absolutely stable today, it's practically enough food and fuel-oil materials, today's businesses, kids go to school, to preschool schools. So everything is absolutely, from a social point of view, normal. The only thing I'd like to ask is that, practically today, our international partners, who are also willing to join the humanitarian aid community, have a little bit of their help diverted from the occupied territory and from the territory that is now in the Lugansk region under Ukrainian control. As far as information policy is concerned, I think I can give you my word. Is there an Artem Bidenko? There is Yuri Jaroslavovich Stec, Minister of Information Policy, I think he will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hennadia. When we created the Ministry, I had a commission set up by the Commission to ensure the stable functioning of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting System. I'll say a few words, what did we come with, and what did we see? We saw a sabotage of the RTT concert that involved the restoration of radio broadcasting of Ukrainian television channels and radio stations on the perimeter of the collision and in temporarily occupied areas. The first thing we did was throw him out. Having created this commission, led by my deputy Tetjana Popov, we have done a number of work to restore speech and, including, to stop speaking on TV channels called LNR, DNR. There's a lot of information going under the phrase "DSK," under the phrase "for the service use," which I can't speak publicly right now, but I'm willing to come to a faction meeting and make a full report, including on all the issues related to both language restoration and the problems that exist. But, nevertheless, there is information that we could now report. I'd like to give the floor to a deputy minister who's in charge of restoring the Ukrainian speakers' language on Donbas, Tetjan Popovy. It's from what you can, the information, the sound, it's going to sound. If you don't mind, Mr. Chairman, she's here. Give her your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u28	Please, although in principle you need less, you need to give more detailed answers. But let's give the deputy minister another shot, and how do we turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u29	It has to be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u30	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u31	Your Honor, madame MPs! Regarding the Donetsk region, I understand, there was a question from the deputy, so I'll answer it in the Donetsk region. In Mariupola, Krasnoarmian and Kramator’s Donetsk branch of RRT, a television transmitter for the broadcast of Donetsk ODTRK was introduced. Kramator 61 Channel, Mariupol 54 Channel, Krasnoarmian 27 Channel In Kramator’s Donetsk branch, a temporary 20 - foot [34 m] stand is installed and broadcasts of 12 televisions and 5 radio programs are restored. The Donetsk branch has been installed and put into operation and is called Donetsk 5 Channel, Studio 1+1, Ukraine, Espresso, Donetsk ODTRK, UT-1 and Radio 24 and Tavrmedia. In the Artemis of the Donetsk branch, RRT increased the power of UT-1, 1+1, and 5 channel transmitters. In Svetlodarsk instead of TET, now it's "Donrtk" and in Constantine, it's called the FM transmitter of "Lux" Radio, which is about the Donetsk Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u32	Thank you. So, the Logan George Volodymyrovich, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u33	Please give the floor to Deputy Guziu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u34	Igor Gus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u35	Good afternoon! I have a question for Mr. Zubko, Mr. Hennaday, Mr. Hennaday, please listen, thank you. According to government subsidies to my constituency for a village of Main City (Ljucomal Region), 1 million 200 were given to repair the house of culture. Unfortunately, today's job didn't start, three weeks ago, three weeks ago, I warned the district administration, the culture department, that they would do something to keep this money from going back to Kabmin. So I'm asking you very much to take this on a pencil, to warn the head of the district administration, the deputy, that if they don't use this 1 million 200 in my constituency, at my suggestion of this Kabmin subsidy, let the heads fly, let the people get out of work. Please take control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to go to all of you and say that our work together is focused on what we first found in the 2015 budget, and then you and the district competition boards worked to take away these investment projects, then the government, together with you, with the budget committee, allocated these funds to the district where they were supposed to go. The Ministry of Regional Development is now in control of each such facility. But let me put it this way: 785 projects, in practice, under the State Regional Development Fund, about 400 more objects are related to capital expenditure that went directly from the Ministry of Finance. So I'm asking for joint work to monitor these projects. The fact that the head of the district administration who signed, sent these projects and asked for these funds will be responsible for this process – this is definitely the case. But we need to either punish someone or execute a project. So I'm asking for these two months left over by the end of the year, when an active phase of construction, restoration and assembly work can be carried out, to join in all together and to help, perhaps in the place of heads of administration, the management to actually use these funds. But then we'll start with what we've helped, how we've worked together, how we've dealt with some sort of personnel issue. So thank you for your cooperation, and I expect that we will bring this cooperation to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister of Ukraine. So to Mr. Zubko. In fact, I want to support Mr. Farsov that the newly created Donbass Agency is badly needed and led by a professional person, has no ability to work properly. Just like the Crimea Recovery Agency doesn't work. And is it not ashamed of the government not to take a public stand on the issue of Crimea, where today the Crimean Tatars are being raped and abused? Similarly, the European Integration Agency does not work, because it does not do Euro-legislative expertise. And the mess that we've actually seen in the session room all this week, and because the government doesn't have a normal body to do an expertise on our legislation to Europeans. Please tell me, do you realize that you do not need to change the philosophy of government work itself? When will this be done? And now, two more specific questions, Mr. Vice Prime Minister: the Dairy Hospital, the doctors' strike, because they don't get paid for 10 months, 4 million debts because they belong to the Debalts City Council. When will it be paid? First question. And two, to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u39	Please wait for the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u40	This is a question from Mrs. Ptachnik's colleague to the Minister of Education: what happens to Boychuk's Institute, his students ask. He was joined by the Greenwich Institute. Will the rights of students be taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that you have a proposal, in principle, to prepare a candidate for the Deputy Prime Minister of Euro-integration, who will deal with these issues in order to coordinate all the central executive bodies, as well as the ministries, who will work together to address the changes to the laws that relate to Euro-integration, which relate to the implementation of the European Union directives, as well as those that will in principle allow for a stronger interaction between both the government and the Supreme Council. As for the work of the central executive bodies in general, which should deal with matters of direction: Donbas recovery agencies, an agency that should work with Crimea. You know, there's been practically a person assigned who's from a Crimean Tatar minority, yes, and today he's working and dealing with these issues. So what I'd like to do about work and cooperation is not to look for common differences at all, but rather to find a common point where we can join in and help each other. Unfortunately, there's no Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, is there? I think maybe. Sandro, there's information, will you? It's a light-headed hospital. I will now give the Minister of Health another word for information. But I would like us to understand clearly, yes, that today there is practical cooperation with the Donbas Recovery Agency, which, along with you, Mrs. Irina, also works in the Minsk working groups, which is working on two projects, very important, social ones, is the Donbas water utility, to restore supplies to our territory. There's also a carbonite issue -- it's a question of water supply in the Luhansk region. So I think if we build normal cooperation, we're going to find the points that we're going to prioritize that are going to allow us to move faster. And thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u42	Thank you. The Lystic Lion. Yeah, I'm sorry. Please complete your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u43	We do an audit of the budget every month, we get information from the ATO area, which is borderline. I don't know why this hospital didn't get the money, I'll find out. Every month we make, add money to make. I'll find out. We'll make it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u44	Mrs. Irina was still asking the Minister of Education? Thank you. So, Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u45	Please pass on the word to Andrey Zhurziya.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u46	Please, George. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u47	Good afternoon, colleagues. I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Jaresko. Mrs. Natala, two questions. First. Two months ago, we heard about Minfin’s tax reform and budget. When will Parliament see Minfin's proposal for tax reform? When will Parliament see the budget? We have too little time to get together and work together. So we ask you to move in as quickly as possible. The second question. We subordinated the State Fiscal Service to the Ministry of Finance. Please tell me how many more scandals have to take place in order for us to see the release of the head of the fiscal service? This is your responsibility for today. Robots are zero. Crush oil -- 10 billion doesn't come in. The IRS makes it look like it's working, every day shows us how many criminal cases it's breaking, but it can't show any proven criminal case at the conversion centers, where people are drawn to responsibility, that is, there's propaganda going on as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u48	Thank you very much. On the first question. We're preparing the final budget, which is going to show a reduction in the cost of the tax reform that we've been preparing. So far, there's no final option in the government that we can make so far. Plus, I'm in the process of getting in touch with the International Monetary Fund, so I can only pass it once I agree with it. I hope that this process will end as soon as possible, and we work on it every day. I'm not going to give you a specific date, unfortunately, but as soon as possible. I agree with you as soon as possible. The other one. About the State Fiscal Service. I think it's in there. Because it's a very difficult situation, you'll see a lot of scandals every day. Starting with the fact that, according to the illustration, all 42 percent of the highest officials would have taken off, and this is a scandal that it wasn't done a year and a half ago. So it starts with the way things are going after the reorganization. Some of the bills you need, you have, and we're waiting. But without the bills, we work extra every day. The decline in the number of people in the Deerfiscal Service is 30 percent, which will be about 18,000 by the end of this year. Shortening of persons, numbers requires changes in business processes and requires. changes in the business process in the reorganization that we've chosen and which we have chosen. The ones we're working on with our international partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Makarian David Borisovich, "Block of Petra Dustenka".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Solovius Igorevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u51	Solovay, 89 constituency. Questions to the Minister of Social Policy. Dear Mr. Paul, when I met people within my constituency, I was approached extensively by people about the problems of subsidies and, in particular, on two issues. First. This is what people turned to in May, June, July, and to this day they have not received an answer as to whether they can get a grant or not? And the second serious problem is, people come into social protection management in some sort of re-establishment, or local self-government, and they're being chased around by different water ducts, archergics, delusions that virtually make it impossible to issue these subsidies. Please comment on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u52	Thank you very much. I'll probably start from the beginning, from the general information about the Ukrainian subsidy system that we're in right now. Today, more than 4 million Ukrainian families have received subsidies under the new system. So what we're saying today is that compared to the previous year, the effectiveness of the subsidy system has increased by about 10 times. Last year, only 450,000 Ukrainian families received subsidies. Today, one third of Ukrainian families are receiving subsidies. I would like to point out that the start of the grant reform began five months ago. Over the past five months, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has changed or improved the subsidy system four times because we are tracking down problems. We see, from minister to chief specialist, we drive through regions, we study people's issues, and social services, and we try to improve this mechanism, let's say, the assignment of subsidies. But I want to say again and again, we can write a lot of normative acts, we can make very beautiful announcements of reforms. But they will be effective only if local authorities, local self - government, treat reforms as we treat you, that is, responsible and effective. It is the responsibility of the local authorities to allocate subsidies. And so, you know, there's probably an area in your district where there's a job where there's no claim and there's areas where there's just massive complaints. So I warn again and again and never once said that indulgence would be for anyone. I have warned not once that, with the result of the grant assignment in 2015, it will be either December or January of the month, I will bring the matter of the personal responsibility of the heads of district and district public administrations to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the suspension of the grant. I don't have any authority. So I stress the personal responsibility of the officials for this process. So obviously the process isn't perfect, we're following it. But at the normative level, we're doing everything we can to make the subsidy really simple. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Oksana Korczynska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u54	Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Questions to the Minister of Health Ladies and gentlemen, please state the critical situation in the country right now with medicines for hemophiliacs, immunodeficiencies, which are not available in hospitals for adult patients with cancer. And 50 percent of the drugs are no longer available under the protocol for cancer patients. What is the MOH doing right now to overcome this crisis? Why are tenders not yet announced? And have international organizations already been selected and a contract is concluded with them to buy drugs for the country’s oncological people? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u55	Thank you for asking, although you know the answer very well, I'll say it again. Two weeks ago, the ILO signed a treaty with the United Nations Development Programme. Today we are signing a contract with Crown Agents, and three weeks ago we signed a treaty with UNICEF. Money, 620 million grevens have already been credited to UNDP accounts. Following the signing of the Crown Agents agreement, 750 million grevens will be credited to Crown Agents and 850 million grevens to UNICEF. This is a total of 2 billion 197 million bracelets that will be transferred to international organizations that will purchase. About hemophilia, which has somehow become a very interesting topic in the last week, two weeks, because every day different groups come to the MOH and advertise their goods, to say the least. The tender was held. As far as I know, on 19 October, all procedures have been completed, and an acceptance procedure is under way. So according to our information, which I hope is much more accurate, we are checking every day, every week, what the country's drug situation is, and will not yet be, such a crisis. Because the fact that we have already conducted the tender completely on local procurement is that there is a process of treaty with them, acceptance of the contract and procurement. And I've already told international organizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Timish Grigory Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u57	Good afternoon, everyone. 203th District, Gregory Timish, Cherniewec Region. I have a complex question for Minfin, the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Health. Mr. Secretary, please tell me. The 2016 budget presented figures according to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. As far as I know, and there's accurate information that you've rejected these proposals and offered to cut by 15 billion according to the Ministry of Education, Education, and Health. billions. Please tell me, what field is this going to touch? Are we going to shorten the beds or are we going to underfinance the programs Mrs. Corchinska was talking about, my colleague, just for the purchase of drugs? And by education, if we don't cut rural schools, there's a lot of people just going to be out of a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. We haven't accepted anything on Kabmin yet. I mean, so far we're not talking about any concrete results that I can prove to you. We're actually going to try to cut our expenses not by 15 billion, but by 60 billion. As you know, our budget is made up of several spheres. The first sphere is national defence and law enforcement organizations. From there, I have no right at all, and we don't even intend to cut expenses. The other one. It's about social costs, which obviously no one is prepared to reduce, the socialists in this country, and the budget project, which was given to you on September 15 and called off, shows that there's a double increase in socionomy: both May 1st and December 1st. Up to 12 percent in total, which equals inflation next year. Let's move on. For future sources of funding. There are, for example, even in the social sphere possibilities of efficiency of our work, not duplication of programs, reduction and verification of all payments. There's some money we can save. So far, we haven't found an answer in the Cabinet of Ministers in this area. Regarding education, health care, and others who are most important in the budget. Obviously, we're expecting some change, but these are changes in sub-structure reforms, not just the closure of some, there, of schools or the release of any people, but the improvement is not discussed at all in terms of the reduction in the number of drugs that are being bought. Thank you. But I'm just going to add a little bit. If we want to see any tax cuts, we need to cut costs. There's no other way out, it's math. Where we'll find them, that's the fight that's going on in all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left. And he's handing his time to Kupryenko Oleg Lazka. And Kirichenko gives up, and we have three minutes left. You'll try to fit in at the time. Mr. Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u60	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a few questions for government officials. The first is about the cost of residential services. Mr. Zubko, you're being approached by a faction leader for residential services. I'll have your attention on the phone later. As far as the cost of housing services is concerned. The Radical Party faction insists that the government increase the rate of consumption of gas from 200 cubes, as it is now, to 400 cubes. Therefore, we demand that the government make appropriate decisions. Obviously, you can see that a third week in a row, next to the Cabinet of Ministers, is the "Trafficking Course", which requires Parliament, the government and the President to make decisions that will make it possible to lower the cost of residential services. In particular, it's the government's decision to increase the amount of gas at the premium price from 200 to 400 cubes. I have a second question for you. Please tell me, what is our heating season? Because one interview by the Prime Minister says that the heating season is six months, and according to the Cabinet of Ministers decree number 74 of March 2, 2015, the heating season is seven months. Would you please explain to the citizens of Ukraine six months or seven months of heating season? First question. Second question to the Minister of Energy. For many months, I have been here, speaking in Parliament, warning of a catastrophic dependence on Russian energy carriers when you're making corruption deals, and Russia will be raising our price the day before winter. Now Ukraine has restored electricity supply from Russia at a price higher than it was before. We're on the verge of massive power cuts. What I'm asking is what does the Ministry of Energy do to keep people with light during the winter period? And to the Minister of Finance. When you stop breaking the law and put into Parliament the budget that was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u61	Please answer and then we'll finish "the hour of questions to the government." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u62	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! You know, I'll tell you that it's not only the Kabdin who sees tents standing on Gruszewski, they're also seen in Svatovo. Yesterday, people asked me: Can they not move these tents with trees, along with food and water, and help people to warm up to those in need today? What's happening with the cooperation of the Supreme Council and the government on the issues at large is to make fair and transparent tariff policies in the state of Ukraine, you know that today is proposed by the government to take a decision, change to 630, in order for people to pay specifically not to heat-supply companies, for the heat energy they give, and for the calculation of the temperature regime that took place last month, changes in the calculation and reduced pay should be made if it was a warm month and the weather allowed less heat. The second question, and I look forward here to the support of the Supreme Council on the issue that the Ukrainian President's Law on Transparency of Accounting for All Tariffs Concerning Central Heating, Water Supply and Central Hot Water Supply will be passed. Now, on the question you asked, the consumption rate is going up from 200 to more. You know, this is a question that can really be discussed, but in the 2015 budget there are specific amounts that can be earmarked for the tax price and how much the State can afford for the budget deficit of Naftogaz Ukraine to give itself that opportunity. We can also discuss it in committees, we can discuss it, but today people who have to pay for utilities and who can't be paid for their income, protected from the point of view of the subsidy program. The Minister of Social Policy can show you the payments that are already coming to people, where you can clearly see the amount that the state is closing at its expense, in order to secure payment of subsidies. Those norms that are now set by Naftogaz for 200 cubes that have been declared and signed in the memorandum with the AMF, they remain exactly the same today. As far as electricity is concerned, I will now give the Minister of Fuel and Energy a word, but I would like us all to understand today that there is a Coalition Agreement, which has been declared, signed, which has been practically formed by the Supreme Council. And under this coalition agreement, the government is operating, and also in the direction of tariff policy, also in the direction of the subsidy programme. So I would like us to look for a way out of the difficult situation of tariff policy formation, to make it transparent, to make it fair, to make it possible for those people who today need help with housing services to get that kind of help. And here we simply need to move on to constructive conversation, not to do things that today do not allow or create artificial barriers to decision making. Now, what's going on in general is the number after the heating season. There's a very simple mechanism today, which is the 630th Government Regulation, which clearly regulates when the heating season begins. And it depends primarily on the temperature that's on the street. We can't say that this heating season starts on October 15, because if 1 October is already three days below 8 degrees below the temperature, utilities have to turn on the heat. When will the heating season end? It may be over and it may be April 1st if there's a very warm temperature on the street, but I'll tell you from my experience, only Herson and Odessa finished the heating season on April 5th, and virtually by April 15th to 20th the heating season was going according to the temperature regime. So six months or seven months is primarily defined by the temperature on the street. And it's the changes to the 630th decree that will allow us today to run a recalculation of the utility bill for the street temperature, and I think it will allow us not only to reduce the consumption of natural gas, but also to allow us, in the cold season of Naftogaz, which today's deficit has practically put Ukraine's budget in a critical situation and, in view of what we're actually looking for today, we're looking for constant gas payments and overcoming this deficit, that will allow Naftogazu to raise more money. I can also report that as of September 1, 2015, 100 percent of the population had been paid for residential services. The discipline of ordinary Ukrainians today is much better than all the other things that are happening, and at the same time, both in government and in the Supreme Council. So I would like us to find a constructive conversation right now, yes, these are the moments that are taking place in the east, which are the first priorities for us as Ukrainians and also for Parliament and for the government. Mr. Demchisin, I'm asking you to provide information on the power grid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u63	Mr. Easy, I want to answer two of your questions. The first question is preparation for the heating season and your rhetoric, which will literally start to shut down electricity. I want to calm you down, at this point, there's coal, at least 900 thousand tons more, than last year, after last year, it was 1.6 million, at this point it's 2.5 million tons. This is enough to start the heating season to enter it with a calm soul and confidence that there will be no disconnects. The second question is: Is there enough money in this market to support these stocks and make it through the heating season? I want to remind you that 2 billion dollars were involved from the savings that were spent on coal, of which 500 million are still in the process of getting involved and spending. So the money's still going for extra coal for the energy supply. Moreover, the level of payment of consumer accounts and industry and the population at this point are at 100 percent. So all the money that's needed to buy coal, nuclear fuel, gas is available. I mean, he's using it to the full. The costs are used to maintain a sufficient level of stock to ensure that the season is safe. Of course, there are two risk factors: the possibility of force majeure in the supply of gas from the Russian Federation, which we are also preparing and preparing to the full, so we have now purchased more than one billion cubic metres of gas than in the previous heating season. With that kind of volume, I'm sure we're going to go through this hot season without any unexpected situations. In the coal case, I already told you. Nuclear fuel purchased for the entire heating season to a full extent. Hence, there is no risk in either the gas or the heat or the electricity market. Of course, there is a problem with conducting an anti-terror operation. As this situation develops, it is difficult to say at the moment. But under today’s conditions, at the time of the truce or perhaps the peace that was achieved in Minsk, there is no threat from that territory. To the extreme, under the given conditions. So I'm sure from the point of view of the heating season, we're well prepared. Now, about your comment on the supply of electricity from the Russian Federation. I want to inform you that there are currently work on connecting the high-voltage line of the Plain Station-Kyiv in order to increase the power supply from the Plain Atomic Station, which has not been done in the last 20 years. This line will allow an additional 1,000 megawatts of power, which were closed, not used on the Plain-Hmelnicki line, two atomic stations operating in the western region, to be released into the central region, which is a deficient one. Deficit in connection with the closure of the Chernobyl station. So this job is going to be done on November 12. So far, in order to even up the consumption schedule, we're getting imported. But only to replace this one block of equinox. At this point, the power that can be used is too much. We have excess power that's not being used. What's more, I want to mention that the actual consumption of electricity is now declining by about 12 percent in comparison to the previous year. Thus, imports are a technological process. It's a process of transferring power between synchronized systems, and there's nothing wrong with that. Cost. Another brief cost comment, during this year the cost has not changed from January to today to this electricity we are getting from Russia. While domestic inflation is more than 20 percent. So to say that we're causing damage, that we're destroying the power segment of the Ukrainian economy, or that there's no reason for any other abuse. I want to assure you that enough of the forces that are tracking this process daily: that's the DFS, that's both the BSS and the DFS. Everyone knows what's going on at the energy level. None. If there are any facts of abuse, they are all investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u64	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. We thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for the thorough answers and, yes, thank you, Mr. Hennaday, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers, for your success and for your best. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day now, the announcement of parliamentary enquiries. And I would also like to do a few announcements first that the MPs insisted on doing yesterday. First announcement: according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenk Alexander Leonidovich, from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". According to the application and according to part three, 63, of the articles. Article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announces the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laño Mikhail Ivanovich, from the House of Deputies "The Will of the People". According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Ribczynski Evgen Juriovich from the deputy faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko". According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich from the deputy faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko". And I'm going to read the MP's questions. Dear colleagues, I will begin with general questions first, because votes to vote for the President in the Hall are obviously not available. So Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Zitomir district government for the restoration of street lighting in the village of Lipne Lubar district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir ODA for the free replacement of the left-wing joint Melniczuk Vasil Mikolaiovich, resident of the village of Jasnogorod in the region of Žitomir. Bogdan Onfrik to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the unlawful actions of Ukraine's employees in the Odessa Region and the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region. Stanislava Berezkin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admissible collection of funds from the children's homes of the family type of the province of Kirovograd. Andrija Biletsky, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for the prevention of entry into Ukrainian territory of cars with registration numbers of self - proclaimed state entities and the movement of goods from self - proclaimed state entities across Ukraine’s customs borders. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNB, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to take urgent measures to help prevent the illegal confiscation of the ownership of the ZAO “Slovyanskolya”. Victor Pinzenik is acting as head of the Ukrainian State Statistics Service for reporting on Ukraine’s external trade. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure of officials of the State to exercise authority over matters of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. Igor Shurma to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the provision of false information by officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Fedor Negoya to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the Herson District, in carrying out checks on the illegal activities of the Head of the Hersonian ODA Putilov. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the proper financing of the coal sector in the formation of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016, taking into account the proposals made by the Ministry of Energy. Andrija Pomazanova to the head of Dnipropetrov’s ODA on the need for an official review of the management of the Apostolic District State Administration. Andrija Pomazanova to the Head of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrov region on the need for an official inspection of officials of the Apostolic District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region, to organize an effective criminal investigation as part of criminal conduct. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a criminal investigation investigation by the military prosecutor in the ATO area, which was found at the request of the former deputy prosecutor of the Kyiv district of Korniac. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the grant of a solid fuel subsidy to the population of Kirovograd. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on the increase in the cost of Minneergowil under the budget programme "State Support for Industrial Enterprises for Partial Coverage of Costs of Prepared Commodity Coal Production". Andrija Vadaturski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the assignment of military status to a former military officer. Kiral's Sergei to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for Customs Reform. Boris Tarasyuk to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the mysterious death of Ukrainian citizen Michael Stokal in the Republic of Cuba. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide compensation for the costs of employers to pay the average wage to mobilized workers. Irina Lucenko to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Odessa Region, on the illegal financial and economic activity of an enterprise engaged in the realisation of the stateless property and property that has become the property of the State, as well as the illegal activity of fiscal officials. Irina Lucenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of officials to execute court decisions. Irina Freez to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for illegal searches of ATR's homes in Crimea. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a higher military educational institution in Suma. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of fair housing, electricity and water tariffs for residents of the Suma region. Leonidas Hamza to the head of the High Council of Justice, Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding The head of the qualified commission of judges of Ukraine for the court order. Andrija Nemirowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of homeless citizens and homeless children in connection with the establishment of the autumn-winter period. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the work and implementation of the targeted financial assistance system for socially vulnerable categories of people. Alexander Suprunka to the minister of justice of Ukraine for the clarification of the arrangements for the transfer of buildings and buildings that conform to government building standards to housing. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the mandatory inclusion of the cost of operating and maintaining the hemodialysis unit in the State Budget. Vasila Petěvka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to the Zacarpathian machine building technology for repair. Groups of National Deputies (Solda, Ribaka) to the Chief of the Chernobyl Customs, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the experiment in the Chernobyl region from the financial provision of the current repair of the road to the general use of the state value of Stries-Yvano-Frankivski-Chernivci-Mamaliga (in Chisinau) (N-10). Alexia Dustenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the medical and psychological rehabilitation of persons demobilized from military service. Michael Golka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of corruption. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the payment of salary indexes for workers in the medical sector of Ukraine. John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Vinnick district government, on the issue of the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of a high-pressure pipeline in the village of Sapizenko and its surrounding villages in the Chargord region of the Winniecki region. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the natural person who is the entrepreneur of Peter Wheschnych. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Predicting in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 the cost of purchasing school buses to provide a lift to the school institutions of students living in the rural areas of the region. Andrija Kota to the head of the Lviv District Public Administration for the failure to respond to the MP's request for the activities of the "Strijski ATP". Andrija Kota to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region for the verification of the activities of the "Strijska ATP". Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on ignoring the growing problems of government officials at the state-owned company Krivorizska Mining and Enriching the combination of oxidized ores in connection with underfunding and the lack of qualified crisis management by the state. John Melniczuk to the head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastr in the Vinnitsk Region for the control of the land distribution process and for the official publication of lists of persons who have acquired ownership of land as participants in hostilities. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the issue of conducting an auction on the implementation of the compressed gas for the needs of the population of the Winnitsk region. Alexander Sugonjako to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the non-unification of the offices of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in Suma and the Suma region. Vitalia Kuril to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of the immovable and movable property of the Daughter Company of the State Shareholder's Bread of Ukraine, the Novoidar Elevator, and the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the DAC "The Bread of Ukraine" temporary to these actions. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the status of a participant in hostilities. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on measures to limit Russia’s propaganda activities in Ukraine. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the formulation of railway tickets in the national language. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the formulation of railway tickets in the state language by Alexander Marchenk. Ruslan Demczak to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Vinnitsky region for violations of local environmental security and public health. Ruslana Demczak to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the retransmission of Ukrainian television in the media area of Kazakhstan. Alexander Villkull to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the unification of citizens who have been deceived by the construction of the New Victory housing complex of the city of Dnipropetrovska, declared by the victims of criminal conduct No. 1202040650000508. Alexander Vilkula to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the restoration of the violated housing rights of residents of House No. 1 on Fatty Street, the city of Dnipropetrovska, and for the protection of their rights in court. Victor Krivenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, for the lengthening of the pretrial investigation into the accident that resulted in the death of a person. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for failing to comply with animal legislation against cruel acts in a animal shelter in death. The Borodians. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on insufficient access to information on the status of implementation of the project "Modernization of the social support system of the Ukrainian population". Jury Pavlenko to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the long-term non-compliance by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial communities of the Žitomir district of the village of the town type of Ozerne. John Rybak, temporarily acting Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Kievstar Private Shareholders Association, Head of the Cherniewsky District Public Administration for the transfer of the top of the Kievstar Capital Link. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the State Environmental Inspectorate in the Kyiv region on environmental and environmental checks in the city of Uzin Kyiv region. Alexander Kodola to the head of the Czernigian ODA for not allowing the closure of the groups of the Nosov district high school in Chernigiv district. Alexander Kodola to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of effective legislation during searches at IT companies in Kiev and Kharkiv. Dmitry Golubov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of reliable information, the use of urgent measures to verify the deterioration of the criminal situation and the resulting social tension before the local elections in Odessa. Mr. Holubov to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, the Head of the Committee on Science and Education, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the deterioration of the education and science sphere, the destruction of higher education institutions in Ukraine, the review of the results of the Rector's election of the Kharkiv National University of Radioelectronics, the likely suffocation of officials of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the restoration of violated labour rights, the inability of social conflict, the withdrawal of administrative and administrative crisis and in the event of confirmation, the prosecution of those responsible. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the recalculation of pensions to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the increase in social standards. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admissibility of a change in the frequency of medical examinations of machine technicians and machine assistants from 1 to 3 years each year. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine to resolve the issue of payment of money to ATO soldiers. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the Construction of a New School Building in the Rokitna District of the Rivna region. Vasil Janickýk to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, head of the Plains ODA on solving the question of the restoration of the gas station in the brain. The yearbook of the Plains region. Bogdan Matkovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the RNB on the elimination of the consequences of long-term hydrocarbon production in Borislava. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Chief of General Staff, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the reform of the military force in the military aviation brigade and the handover of the flag of war. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the blocking of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine's consent to the creation of a state-owned historical and cultural reserve in the village of Stilska Mikolaiiv district of Lviv region. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the maintenance of the budget, located in the areas of the city of Svetlodarsk and the city-type station of the Mironov Region of the Donetsk Region. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Modernization of Pension Payments. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the extension of criminal investigation on the suspicion of Postola and Togobecki. Ivan Krulk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the involvement of the public in the development of the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Approval of the Register of Non-profit Institutions and Organizations, the inclusion of non-profit enterprises, institutions and organizations in the Register. Mr. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Czernovetske ODA on the use of comprehensive measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the state-owned enterprise, Cherniewskie Oblavtodor. Olega Kulinić to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the absence of vaccines in hospitals for the planned vaccination of newborns and infants by the year. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the Standard Land Rental Contract into line with legislative acts. Ruslan Solvar to the Head of State Sanitary Epidemiological Service in the Kyiv Region, Spiteckov Rural Council of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev, Kiev-Svetoshinsk region of Kiev, on the need to take action to ensure environmentally sound conditions for the livelihood of residents of the village of Spitka Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kiev in connection with violations of sanitary standards by a limited liability company "Agroland". Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Kyiv ODA, on the need for a thorough study of the proposals of the Fastev District Council of the Kyiv Region on a forward-looking plan for the formation of the territories of the Kyiv region. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the granting of the right to utilities to send some of the non-needed housing subsidies to the population to fill an electronic account in the VAT electronic administration system. Valery Paccan to the head of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev regarding the possible bribery of voters in Kiev. Gennady of Krivoshei to Minister of the Ministry of State of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the laws of law in force by the head of the Boguslav City Council of Djachenk. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal inaction of the employees of the Pechre District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Kiev in the course of investigations into the criminal conduct of the commission of crimes committed by citizen Borodin Vadim Vasilovich, with the aim of taking possession of the property of the National Association for Tribal Affairs in the "Criminal Association". Group of People’s Deputies (Jaroslav Dubnević, Pakkan.) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the social standard of gas consumption for the population during the heating season from 1 October 2015 to 30 April 2016. Andrea Illenka, under the temporary responsibilities of head of the Righteous District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City Public Administration for inclusion in the Kiev Economic and Social Development Programme 2016 of the capital renovation of the residential building on Milutenka Street, 23. Andrija Illenka to the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev, temporarily acting as head of the right-wing district office in Kiev, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for information on the reconstruction of Kyoto Park in the right-wing district of Kiev. Gregory of Times to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the possible reduction of expenditure from the State budget for education, health care and social policy in the preparation of the 2016 State Budget. Gregory Times to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to approve the Government of the State Program "Preparation of Individual Rural Builders for 2016-2020". Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of free medicines to citizens who have suffered from an accident at CHAES. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on speeding up the procedure for granting medical subsidies to the Corstodian Region of Žitomir, under the programme Medical Subvention from the State Budget for Local Budgets. Oleg Osuhovski to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the legal evaluation of the activities of law enforcement authorities during the peaceful protest of citizens under the Supreme Council on 31 August 2015. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Law on the Cleaning of Power. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of Hmelnické ODA on the crisis in the Hmelnicke district labour market and the requirement for Hmelnicke ODA to inform the local authorities. Andrija Šinkovič to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Board of Directors, Henprocuror for the Protection of the Rights of Peoples of the House on Zarichanska Street, 9 in Hmelnicky. Jaroslava Markevich to Deputy Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor, for the prosecution of possible illegal activities of the BSS employees in the interests of Chernishenko. Sergey Kaplin to the prosecutor of the Poltava region for the verification of bribe claims by the Poltav city council of entrepreneurs in the markets of Poltava. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the non-compliance of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules of the Ukraine in the previous review of Bill No.1517 amending certain Ukrainian laws on State financial support for credit unions with a view to returning deposits. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to approve new standards of quality and physical chemical indicators of natural gas provided to consumers in order to ensure their compliance with the requirements of the European Union. Jury of Derivyanka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the illegal inaction of Kabmin, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine as part of the delay in the transfer of quality standards for natural gas to consumers. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to provide adequate funding for current and capital repairs and maintenance of road traffic in the Lviv region. Michael Dobkin to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the conduct of a pretrial investigation into criminal offences committed by the Kharkiv District Electoral Commission. Michael Dobkin to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the introduction of information into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the obstacles to the legitimate activities of the Regional Organisation of the Political Party "The Opposition Block" in the Kharkiv region. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Vinnitsk District Council, Head of the Vinnitské ODA for funding to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of the opening of the Winnitsk district clinic called Pyrogov. Alexander Dombrovski, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian General Pension Fund in the Vinicki Region, Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in Vinnici, Head of the Vinnicki District State Administration for the establishment of a special pension before the Ukraine Grušové W.O., which raised eight children. Alexia Rybkin to the Ministry of State for the violation of Ukrainian law by the head of the City Election Commission of the Donetsk Region of L. Ganji. Alexia Rybkin to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on violations of law in the course of executive conduct. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, and the Office of the Attorney-General for the possible misconduct of the financial institution. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa State Administration on the need for an objective review of the Odessa Professional List of Technology and Design of the South Ukrainian National Teachers' University of Ushinsky on the need for immediate comprehensive repair of thermal networks and for the provision of air heating. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, Odessa ODA on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of residents of the buildings 19, 21, 23, 31, 41, 43 "A" and the district "B" of Kyiv district of Odessa on the complex arrangement of the inter-quartered passage along the line of the 13th tram between the streets of Akademic Králov and the avenue of Marshall Žukov. Jaroslava Markevich, under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Geology and Natural Resources Service of Ukraine, acting as the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of landowners located on the territory of the Torian Rural Council of the Constantine Region of the Donetsk Region. Sergey Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of adequate housing for participants in an anti-terror operation and families of deceased military personnel. Sergey Rudika, Sergio Rudika to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission for the immediate publication of the results of the election of the city’s head, Smil. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the assignment of the title "Hero of Ukraine" (death) to the volunteer battalion "Cravbas" Georgi Toropowski for performing outstanding heroic acts in the struggle for sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Vladimir Parasuka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the contempt of Ukrainian military personnel by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, namely, the failure to pay the prizes earned to the soldiers of the military sector is the field mail of B4680. Aunty Donz to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for information on tax revenues. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the determination of the legal status of the Barresian mineral waters resort in the Kharkiv region. Yurya Bereza is under the responsibility of the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine for ineffective use of the budget for the purchase of car cranes for the National Guard of Ukraine at high prices in the Republic of Belarus. Jury Berezi to the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk Region for numerous complaints about the actions of the head of the Vasilkow District Department of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Dnipropetrovsk, Colonel Luspai Igor Mihajlovich. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for an objective and impartial investigation into a fire that caused damage to a member of the Montenegrin City Council’s car. Jury Bublika to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on ignoring the rights of Poltavia's right-holders, the fact that voters were bribed by candidates for the position of Poltavian City Head Alexander Mamay and Andriy Matkovski, and other violations during the local elections. Mikoli Skorak to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to review gas tariffs, heating and hot water for the population. Sergija Vlasenka, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to provide information on the conditions for reverse gas supply to Ukraine and to refuse to provide the requested information to the management of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Roman Semenha and Victoria Vojcitsky to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the report on the use of budgetary funds and funds provided on a charitable basis by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Dmitry Lubinz to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the critical situation that has been established on the "Bilicka" mine of the State-owned company Dobropilavugilla in the Donetsk region, which has been leased in the "DTEC" since 2010. Irina Efraemov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful closure of the criminal case concerning Welbovac, head of the Lissian RDA, Cherkas region. Irina Efraemova to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for violating the rules of effective law by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Tarasyuk, and for drawing her to disciplinary responsibility. Jury Lewchenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on illegal acts, the inaction of internal affairs officials and the failure to submit to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations of Criminal Offences, which consists of bribery of voters in 116-118 districts from the election of members of the Kiev City Council by candidates from the Unity Party. Andrija Antonishtak to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the criminal liability of those responsible for environmental pollution in Uzin and surrounding areas that pose a threat to the lives and health of local residents. Olga Cervaková to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and public services, on the non-compliance with the requirements laid down in the MP's address to the head of the National Commission, which implements state regulation in the fields of energy and municipal services of the Wolf. Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine for the provision of official explanations on the use of applications and reports on the bribery of voters in 116-118 districts from the election of members of the Kyiv City Council by candidates of the Unity Party, as well as the urgent use of measures for the registration and investigation of the crime. And another message. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Groisman, of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laño Mikhail Ivanovich. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my withdrawal from the MP's "will of the people" faction and in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy" and article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, I report my membership of the MP's Rebirth Party. On that occasion, I announced all the announcements and requests that were made. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12: 35 a.m., we will start by speaking with the deputies, so all those who intend to speak will meet in the session hall at 12:35 p.m. and we will sign up for the performance. Break to 12.35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I'd like to ask the delegates to come into the hall and take up their jobs. And we continue our uneasy but important activity. Now we have time for the national MPs to speak on various issues. I ask my colleagues to prepare for the recording, focus, focus. Please record the performance. Please. Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party. Passes the word to Oleg Laszko. Please. Oleg Lazko will use the time of two Corchinskys and Lincs. I mean, six minutes for the show. And please remove the fourth Linc from the list. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues of the national MPs, unfortunately, did not happen yesterday in the Ukrainian Parliament as one that could become historic. Yesterday morning, the Supreme Council voted to consider bills on the cancellation of rent for the production of Ukrainian gas, to review laws yesterday to ensure that Ukrainian gas goes to the needs of housing and utilities, the Law on the Moratorium for the sale of agricultural land. Unfortunately, however, the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Groissman, arbitrarily, in spite of Parliament's decision, closed yesterday's session and postponed the consideration of these very important laws to the following week. Why is the Radical Party faction paying attention to this? For almost three weeks in the government’s district, Maidan is a tax collector, where thousands of citizens from all over Ukraine gather to defend their rights, their right to live in a warm home, their right to pay for the community, to feed their families, and to support their children. Regrettably, today’s plundering policy, run by today’s president, government, has led millions of Ukrainians to fail to pay for the community, millions of Ukrainians are unable to feed their families, millions of Ukrainians have become beggars. And that's why the Radical Party and other democratic forces, Ukrainian citizens from all over the country have come here to the government district to demand power from parliament, from the government, from the President to make decisions that will make it possible to radically reduce the cost of housing services. The Ukrainian Parliament could have made that decision, but unfortunately it did not. Because apparently those who do not want to make decisions do not realize their responsibility to the millions of voters who have delegated us here. What is the most important problem facing people today? Payments. They're afraid to wait for this paper, and with this number that's going to be drawn there. Today, 4 million Ukrainian pensioners receive a thousand. At least, 1 thousand 200 bucks. A million pensioners receive less than a thousand dollars, and for a utility station, an average of 2.5 - 3 thousand dollars is to be paid for gas. I have a simple question: Where do people get money? And how can they pay for the last one when worldwide incomes, at most, are paid by 15 percent of the family, and everything else — we have to feed the children, we have to send them to school, eventually, to the pensioners of the pills we need to buy, which they are now deprived of the ability to buy. That is, we demand that this policy be stopped immediately. And that's why in the Tariffian Show, in the Radical Party, there's a clear plan of action that needs to be done to radically reduce the cost of housing and utilities. Of course, Parliament must immediately decide to cancel the rent on domestic gas production. Today, up to 70 percent of the money is spent, resulting in an increase in tariffs. That is why we demand that the parliamentary majority adopt a law on the cancellation of the rent for gas production. We must demand that a law be adopted to ensure that Ukrainian gas is needed for non-importable housing, since imported gas is much more expensive than Ukrainian gas and, as a result, has an impact on the increase in tariffs. We demand the adoption in Parliament of our bills that we have registered for the elimination of Naftogazu, this corrupt office that washes hundreds of billions of dollars every year. And as a result, consumers have their own pockets to pay for the corruption that is today in Naftogaz. We're asking President Dustenk to cancel his appointment order, the so-called National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market, which is headed by a former Russian company manager named Wolf today. And today these "prashenko wolves" are setting dragon tariffs, along with the government, robbing millions of Ukrainian citizens. Because everyone understands that high tariffs are derived from corruption, from energy abuse, when they sit close to the authority of the oligarch, such as the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, they wash away, through equipment, corruption billions of dollars, and they have Ukrainian citizens who take the last of their pockets to pay for this corruption. We're asking the parliamentary majority to pass the tariff disclosure bill, because today we don't know what we're paying for, the people on the ceiling are writing those payments and they're forced to give the last money. We demand that the government, immediately at the expense of the state budget, install gas and energy accounting counters in each apartment building. Because where the counters are, it's at least twice the cost of residential services. Similarly, the government is obliged, and for this is the "Trafficking Course" and it is expected by all Ukrainians that the government raises from 200 to 400 cubes the standard of gas supplied at a premium price, for 200 cubes of a dog's box you don't heat. So at least 400 cubes a month has gas at a tax price. These are the key requirements that, in the case of their adoption and implementation, will make it possible to radically reduce the cost of residential services. I want to warn the President, the government and the criminal parliamentary majority, if you don't meet our requirements, if you don't meet the tariff requirements, we'll be asking questions about the presidential, parliamentary elections and the resignation of today's government. We're going to stop this looting policy of today's government, we're not going to let you rob Ukrainian citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, now. Ma'am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, instead of the deputy Keith, the Jurassic, and then the Curvy. Mrs. Oksana's already out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u68	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Deputies! At the end of the year, dedicated to the great Ukrainian, the tutor of many generations, the Metropolitan Andrea Sheptick. During the last ten months, there have been many events all over Ukraine, which have taken place 150 years since the birth of the Metropolitan. We look forward to proclaiming it to the holy ones. The final outcome of this year's event was an international symposium, which took place at the end of last week at the National University of Lviv Politechnics. It was attended by representatives of many churches, religious communities, and nationalities. I'd like to remind one of them, "Be a role model, take the Holy Communion every day, work honestly in your calling and nothing else." Why is it that these words are Metropolitan because there is an event that last week is a model of good work -- a return from captivity to the home of a Levian named Oreste Petrisin? He spent nine months in captivity, many people were working on his deliverance, and we were able to do so only because each one of us was working honestly in his calling and nothing else. From myself, from the Orestes family of Petriskin, thank you, to all those who have joined, especially Irina Heratschenko. It's a very hard and long-term job. There are 139 of our boys left in the hostages, each waiting at home. Our job is to bring them all home, nothing more important to us today. And I want to add one thing that concerns tariffs today. Our MPs were asked about 400 cubes, which we also demand from the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Quoting the remnant of Sheptic: "In unity power, prosperity and victory, in unity of the state, in unity of the Church and unity of the nation." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, "The People's Front." From the rostrum, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u70	Thank you. Good day, reverend Ukraine, good day, honourable lord presiding, distinguished national deputies! Bennady, the People's Front faction. Dear friends, we talk a lot about the activities of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the individual deputies, the state institutions. But we don't pay much attention to what's happening in our places, in our circuits, in our local executives, in our city. Why am I focusing on this? I take the example of my hometown, Boguslav, in the Kyiv region. In this town over the last five years, the mayor of the city, the so-called "city head", is Mr. Djachenko, who in five years made a city like this in paws, a confetti, according to which most of the places in the city spit. Why? Let me give you an example. On the street of the city of Mikolaiiv, 25, Mr. Djachenko, based on illegal decisions, set up a number of temporary buildings, blocking the passage of residents to the house. The other one. In the central square of the city, Mr. Djachenko, the city’s head, made a sort of one - person decision and allowed parking in the city in the central square. Dear friends, the city of Boguslav is not the city of Kyiv, in Boguslav a number of free cities where parking can be arranged and suitable cars can be placed. Third. The city’s head does not explicitly comply with the decree of the President of Ukraine. Tens to tens to this day! – ATO participants who have returned from hostilities cannot obtain only apartments, not even land in this town of Boguslav. To date, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Boguslav district, along with the district attorney’s office, has even imposed a fine on the city’s head of the city of Boguslav for failing to pay or enforce the relevant decisions and decisions of the relevant law enforcement authorities. Mr. Djachenko's city chief, I ask you to consider my comments and suggestions and start working for the city of Boguslav. Dear friends, reverend Ukraine, respected citizens of the city of Boguslav, I am today. Today, two of my questions were read in the Chamber regarding possible violations and inaction. and the possible inaction of the city's head Boguslav for the purpose of examining the General Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the relevant observations I have made, which have been announced in accordance with the addresses of the Godslavs who have arrived.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u71	Thirty seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u72	Who came to my address. And once again, I would like to point out that as no major MP, I will continue to work in the Boguslav region, to support the initiative and to help all the people who care about our Ukraine, and who are willing to fight against all the local criminal authorities. We need to understand that if we are going to have a perspective and that we are going to have a territorial union of communities, we need to understand that officials are in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u73	Who was interrupting? I didn't interrupt anyone. Let's not give it three seconds, let's give it 15 seconds, and it's going to be a victory. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u74	Thank you. I would like to point out that only those not only in front of themselves but in front of every citizen will be able to bear the honor of an official in the city and of a representative of the territorial community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u75	Thank you. So, Dekhtyarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u76	Alexander Dekhtyarchuk, 154th constituency. Dear Society, I am addressing you with a situation that has arisen in the province of Ravenna with the transfer to the educational institutions of the students who live in a remote area. Buses were mobilized to implement the President's decree of 14 January 2015 "Partial Mobilization" during the mobilization and technical measures in the Plain area in the area of anti-terrorist operations to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard and other formations active in the ATO. Of the three districts of the 154th Dubensk constituency, seven school buses were installed. In particular, from the Dubensk Region – 2, Mlinovsky District – 2, Radivilovsky District – 3. As a result, it has made it very difficult to drive students to the schools of the populace, which has a negative impact on the educational process, to create some social tension among parents and pedagogical workers. At the same time, the Ukrainian Ministry of Education’s proposal to purchase needed school buses under cofinancing conditions of 50 by 50 cannot be implemented in connection with the lack of funds in local budgets. One new school bus costs over 1 million dollars. I find such a position unacceptable, since the State, after removing buses for the defence of the country, would return buses to schools. Taking into account the above, in implementing part three of article 53 of the Constitution, with a view to ensuring equal access to quality education through the creation of an adequate environment for the seamless and regular free transport of pupils, children and teachers to educational institutions, I request that, in the development of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016, the funds for the acquisition of school buses be provided to train students who live in, inter alia, the rural areas of the Rhine region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko. From the ground or from the rostrum? From the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u78	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to take this opportunity right now to make some summaries of the elections, the local elections that took place throughout the country. First of all, I would like to make a small apology publicly before the inhabitants of the village of Novoarchangelsk Kirovograd. Because I had a campaign tour in Ukraine, especially in the Kirovograd region. I usually try not to be late for my meetings, but then there's a technical overlap, and I'm one hour late for a meeting, and so now I'm apologizing to the people of Novorchangelsk and to the people of Novgorodkov district because they were waiting for me and unfortunately I'm late. Well, that's what happens. Excuse me. And as for the election summary, when I was traveling all over Ukraine, I was trying to explain to people that it wasn't really an election to the local council. local authorities are not really elected local deputies, not elected mayors, not elected district deputies, and this is all the Ukrainian referendum on trust or mistrust in the current regime, because that is already. I'm already forced to call this power a regime, not an authority, but a regime, because when the authorities start shutting their political opponents in jail for no reason, it's already a regime. As the Janukovitsch-Azarov regime was, today it is the Dusty-Jacinuk regime, which, by the way, in terms of socio-economic policy and in terms of voting or not voting in the Supreme Council, do not differ. So, unfortunately, even though people have expressed some mistrust in this regime, mistrust in the form of non-election, because we all know that the phenomenon was catastrophically low -- about 40 percent across the country -- but unfortunately, it was because of this low appearance of this regime that we managed to reach those who paid, unfortunately, those who sell their votes. To stretch a certain result at the expense of benches, playgrounds, painted driveways, to kick some part of our Ukrainian people over and over again, and thus to get some but some result in these local elections. Though thanks to God, it is much smaller than the parliamentary elections. Where am I going with this? In addition, I know that the people of the good people of Ukraine, understand, at last, that until you and I have chosen normal authority, nothing will change in the country. As long as the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have 226 normal people's deputies who are willing to vote in favour of cancelling the Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus, through which hundreds of millions of dollars are being withdrawn every month from Ukraine, who will be in charge of eliminating private monopolies that vote for nationalizing energy-generating companies and so on, until there are 226 people's deputies in the Supreme Council, nothing will change in Ukraine. I'm asking you to add 30 seconds, as you added. As long as there are no such deputies, nothing will change in Ukraine. And for such deputies, we only have two options. It's either revolutionary.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u80	It's either a revolutionary path, or an evolutionary path. If we don't want a revolutionary path, as people have been telling me all over the country right now, that's enough revolution, we're tired, no questions asked. You don't want a revolutionary path, then I call you, people good! – go to elections, choose normal authority. Because no one will let us out of the sky, neither the devil nor the angel, nor the normal prime minister, nor the normal MPs, until we choose them ourselves. So, God forbid, this Supreme Council will soon go into oblivion, God forbid, there will be the election of the Supreme Council and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u81	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u82	And I urge you not to be 40 percent, but to be 90 percent. And people have chosen normal authority! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u83	Captain Olena, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u84	Dear people of Ukraine, today I am on this rostrum with a simple mission. In three minutes, explain what really happened yesterday with such an important bill for visa-free liberalisation. We now see a lot of different formulations and interpretations of what happened yesterday. Like, "Parliament failed," "it's all gone." I want to explain. Today, there are 17 bills in Parliament that relate to the implementation of the technical requirements of the visa-free regime. In addition, these technical conditions make a number of demands to the President, to the Attorney General's Office, for the government that they have to meet before the actual November of the month. That's a change of commission for the election of an anti-corruption prosecutor. This is the appropriate effective work of the Office to Fight Money Laundering. This is the direct choice of an anti-corruption prosecutor. And the replacement, the resignation of today's Attorney General. And replace it with a person who trusts society. So, I now have in my hands the government's work plan for the bill. This does not mention any draft legislation that went to Parliament three weeks ago regarding visa-free liberalisation. This means that the government was unprofessional at the last moment actually preparing these documents, giving them to the deputies in very low quality, and we had to work on them for three weeks. We worked them out, prepared the necessary adjustments. I'm asking you not to manipulate me. There are MPs who read and work on laws. But instead of having these laws passed yesterday, the government actually put them in danger and started through the People's Front MPs to make amendments for confirmation, thereby completely undermining the work of committees and the work of deputies. That was the result of the situation that took place yesterday in Parliament. I call on the government to work professionally, to consensus and to put people's well-being and the achievement of visa-free liberalisation first, and not their ambitions to draft legislation, and to carry out, under the terms of visa-free liberalisation, the private interests that they were trying to pursue yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u85	Kirichenko conveys the word Yuri Suhevich. Yuri Suhevich. Maybe he's not in the hall yet. Is Yuri Suhevich in the hall? Oh, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u86	Honorable Ukrainian People, on January 14, 1915, Law 1086 was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What was that all about? It was about women who have reached the age of 55, but have 30 years of age, lost their jobs, have the right to retire early. That rule after the Tehypian Reform was maintained until last year. But since the right to retirement had ended, the Supreme Council had passed the law. The president vetoed this law. In half a month after the veto was imposed, he was to be introduced into the Parliamentary Hall to overcome the veto. It's not in yet. And, you know, women who can't find jobs today at the age of 30 who spend 10 percent of their pension each year. So they're going to retire with so much damage, because no one's going to count them off, no one's going to make it up to them. They can't either, because the veto is not over, they can't stop retirement and they have to wait up to 60 years. The other one. There is another norm in this law. By December 31, 1915, those who worked could have paid their salary by the year 2000. They'll be deprived of that right after December 31st, 15th. And once again, imagine, it's already millions of people who are going to retire, who are going to spend some of them after the 31st of December getting a pension for a whole 3, 2.5-3 or more times less. Hence, in view of the fact that this law is not yet being passed in violation of the law to overcome the veto on an appropriate day for them to be deputies. I call upon all men, all pensioners, first and foremost, all those concerned, to address letters to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to appeal to their deputies, especially to the major MPs, so that they can be duly pressured so that the leadership of the Supreme Council can finally contribute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u87	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u88	The bill was introduced into the veto room. Let's think about it and, deputy, when this is done, support these unhappy women, support these pensioners who have worked and who are worthy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u89	Heroic glory! Deputy Osuhovski will pass on the word to Golovk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u90	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in our Parliament, MPs simply don't see and ignore the problem of people who have been standing by the walls of the Supreme Council for months, supporting Bill 1558/1. As it were, the financial platform that we voted on in the first, in the second, and in the third reading. But somehow the Head of the Supreme Council still does not sign it, breaking the regulations, the Constitution, and all the rules of law. So once again, I would like to hear the position of the Head of the Supreme Council, why he does not sign this law and respond to the conversion of thousands of people who are suffering, who are now being thrown out of their homes. I would also like to highlight a problem that concerns many Ukrainians. And how do you, MPs, know who come to the village that know the problems of the village, and people ask first, and what about the 2089 bill that we voted in the first reading on raising the purchase price, the minimum purchase price for milk? Because for the village it's a very loud and painful question, and people keep addressing it, after all, when will the MPs pay attention to the problems of the village? Why is milk cheaper than water? Why do they have to work hard and work hard when prices go up and everything goes up now and so forth? But I see what? Like the government, as well as the deputies, does the prime minister care, for he does not know what the village’s problems are and when was the last time our prime minister was in the village? Did he see from the window of his own plane flying over Ukraine, the same villages, to visit people and talk about how they are living today, what are their problems? This does not belong to today’s authorities. So, of course, we still urge attention to the Ukrainian village. And this painful problem is the subject of gas. Remember, before the elections, how Yatsenuk promised that the gas of his own production would be returned to the Ukrainian people. Regrettably, two years later, his prime minister had never seen it before, seen it as a lie, another lie before the elections of ordinary Ukrainians. Because there's our bill, which is 2804a, which predicts that the gas of its own production must go first for the needs of the Ukrainian people, the common Ukrainian people, at the JRC and so on. That's why we're asking for a set of these bills to reduce rent on natural gas production, and we're also looking at our freedom bill to send gas of our own production to the people first. Because today, tariffs that have raised the price of gas by seven times, where 285 percent have increased tariffs, where every Ukrainian has fallen by six or eight times, where the national bracelet has been devalued four times, where the total government debt is growing by astronomical figures, and now it is equal to 95 percent of GDP -- this is practically leading our country to poverty. And that's why it's enough to tolerate the Prime Minister's abuse of the Ukrainian people, after all, when he writes a statement and puts himself in charge and stops torturing ordinary Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine! Retirement of this government! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u91	Antonistak, pass the word to Musia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u92	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dear voters! I would like to refer to you with the following question about the situation surrounding the so - called reform of the health system that is enshrined in the coalition agreement and that is not stubbornly carried out by the government. We witnessed yesterday our colleague Kožemiakin's appeal to Minister Petrenko, who severely criticised the position taken by the government and not the professionalism with which the laws on visa-free status are being prepared, so that we can go abroad without hindrance. I want to support my colleague and say that the same situation has arisen in health care. The Minister of Health for the year promises us a reform of the health system, the bill he passed: The change to the six articles of one law does not withstand any criticism at all. He was not trained so professionally that during a meeting on the Health Committee, the minister himself admitted that his reform and autonomy were not in line with the expectations of the Ukrainian people, he said that he was taking the criticism out of everyone there. It will be found that, over a six-year period, there has been systematic discrediting of the Ukrainian Health Committee by the Minister, Prime Minister and other members of the Cabinet of Ministers, who have been attached to them by so-called "grantoids", which are in the form of a "Reanimation Package of Reforms", taking foreign funds and instead of proposing real health reforms and writing at least one bill a year, unable to write anything at all. It is a disgrace to such a composition of the Cabinet of Ministers and such a minister of health who has been taken as a reformer and has proved to be a medical and political impotence that is neither capable of basic health reform for the Ukrainian people. That is why the Health Committee has taken responsibility for the long - awaited reform. I ask you to support the decision taken by the chairman of the committee to the Supreme Council to hold in November. In December, 16th, parliamentary hearings on "Health reform." Today I invite the rest of the people's deputies, unfortunately, you will be very few, there will be a conceptual action -- a round table at the Health Committee, which will listen to questions about the principles of public policy. This is the fifth and conceptual bill of all the principles of government activity in general. I would like to speak to the Committee on Budgets separately, considering that the time is limited, on a different subject. Registered with the participation of our MPs, the interfractional bill, the "Protect the Coal Branch", Bill 3301, on the release this year of 1 billion 800 million to support the coal sector so it will not be destroyed. The PEC committee has unanimously supported 11 numbers on Wednesday's budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u93	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u94	I call upon all, honourable deputies, to ensure that the coal sector is not destroyed, support this bill, it is urgently needed by Ukrainian miners. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Timish, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u96	Dear Chairman! 203 County, Gregory Timish. Good day to you all, dear fellows, distinguished voters! A situation that has arisen around many areas. Today, we have heard a statement by the minister of finance — the answers to my questions about the reduction of expenditure in some areas. Well, let's say, the scale of the reforms, the scale of the restructuring and the optimism are amazing, believe me. It's no use asking questions to the finance minister today, because I know that these cuts are specifically related to small-scale schools in rural areas, it's about hospitals, shorter beds and so on. In my district, particularly in the Chernivsky region, there was also a very dangerous situation in connection with the unification of the territorial communities. Communities have been formed on a voluntary basis, but now, because of probably the incompetence of experts in the district administration, who have put out some kind of, I don't know, a forward-looking plan that doesn't correspond to reality. The newly formed communities have united, they have already chosen their heads, but they cannot, in fact, register as legal persons now. And Bill 3106, in fact, if it's accepted in the paper where it's proposed by the committee or the Cabinet of Ministers (I don't know who filed it), it's actually. He's actually crossing out all the hopes of these newly created communities. And they don't become legal persons. Therefore, I would like to urge the deputies representing Bukovina, the region of Chernobyl, to join the government with the Montenegrin district administration to meet immediately these days to resolve the issue of the registration of these newly formed communities. Because it is an unacceptable fact that the district administration has allowed. Also, there's a program called "own house," which we all know about, about supporting individual construction in the countryside, just supporting rural areas. There was a threatening situation that the program would be underfunded next year. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister to come back face-to-face to a rural person who has the opportunity and is counting on loans of 3 percent, and many-year-old families can even get interest-free loans for construction. In the Chernobyl area, nearly 25,000 square meters of housing were built, and 42 buildings are now being built. That's why this program is active and will work if there's funding. I'm calling on the government to back up this program once again, knowing that Minregiobud has submitted this program for funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Herasimov gives his word to the Lubinian MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Good afternoon, Ukrainian citizens! Lubinets Dmitry Valerievich, majority electoral district number 60, Donetsk Region. For three weeks he was able to work in his district, talk to people, and deal with their problems. Unfortunately, there wasn't much time to go to Mariupol, which is next to my district, and find out what happened there. You know, we have a sessional week beginning with the opposition bloc's representative accusing all democratic forces and power in Ukraine of the collapse of the elections in Mariupola and stating that the elections should be held as soon as possible on 15 November and registered the relevant decree. What really happened? Did the power and all of us as members of the democratic factions make the city's TVC sit in a building that belongs to Metinvest? Or maybe we forced them, seven members of the same TVC, to vote in violation of the law on the printing of ballots in the print "Priazova worker", which also belongs to the CMM, is "Metinvest"? Or maybe it was we who forced them to print those ballots again without the formed three members of the TVC, without looking out, that we actually printed as much as we wanted and brought the situation to a standstill. Two days before the election, the majority of the TVC voted, print the public press cards and bring the elections. As a result, the CFC has revoked this order, has done everything to ensure that elections are either non-democratic or not at all. This answers the question of who is to blame for the collapse of the elections. CTC Regulation No. 525 of 5 November has been issued. And what do we see? Tatyana Recently was appointed Head of City TVC. She worked as a lawyer on a contract hired by the previous head of this TVC, Irina Jurin. All the democratic forces stated that Irina Jurin herself had done everything she could to prevent the elections from taking place in Mariupola. In fact, the CFC did everything: some of them were switched to others, a stitch to soap. Why are they in such a hurry? It's very simple: cooking is how to draw 80 per cent of themselves, so they only need to hold the elections on 15 November. If we are all interested in holding democratic, fair elections in Mariupola, our task is to vote in favour of a new election date, to form new commissions and to ensure that the elections are conducted in an honest, democratic and transparent manner. Mariupol has not been able to take the military path — they want to take it politically. Our task is not to allow it. Mariupol will fall, the Donetsk region will fall, the whole of Ukraine will fall. The forpost of Ukraine is currently the city of Mariupol. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Rosenblatt gives the floor to the deputy. Deputy Revegue, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u100	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, distinguished voters. Today, a group of deputies led by Dubnevich Jaroslav asked the Prime Minister to reduce the tax rate on gas consumption, to increase, more faithfully, I apologize, from 200 to 400 cubes, with a reduction of 50 cubes each year. What will this lead to? So that our communities can keep their houses warm during this time, replace their windows, and save their heat. Please count my speech as an address. Next. I'd like, Your Honor, to address the Minister of Social Affairs. I got a call from the Water Channel. To date, the funds that come from enterprise subsidies have a purpose -- just to pay off the debt of energy carriers, and the company can't use any more money. But today it can pay taxes, improve its material base. So I'm asking that measures be taken, too, maybe they've changed to the 20th decree of 11 January 2005 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I also want to turn to you, 150 people (the town of Berditch) of the Progress machine factory, where there are a thousand people working today who are not paid a salary for more than three months. And this trend has been going on for three years. Criminal cases were opened, and somehow they were closed. I'd like the Attorney General to intervene today and do everything I can to get people paid. Progress Today is ordering tens of millions of dollars and registered in Kiev, and all the money goes to Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u101	Thank you. The word is Kodoli Alexander Mikhailovich, faction of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u102	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. We've been listening to information from the Ministry of Information Policy in the Supreme Council today. As a national MP representing Montenegro, an area that borders immediately with two countries, I would like to draw attention to information security issues in the border regions of Montenegro. In fact, the five border areas of our area are covered exclusively by Russian television signals. The Ukrainian canals are not actually located in the areas of the population, located about 20 kilometers away from the Russian-Ukrainian border, which is causing the Russian propaganda of the aggressor State to increase with unforeseeable consequences. What is important is that there are opportunities to provide the inhabitants of our area with adequate information services. As I learned from publicly available sources, the specialized state - owned radio, radio, and television concerts repeatedly addressed the authorities on the subject. The state firm expressed its willingness to pay for the services provided to build the necessary infrastructure, but it did not get the permission. As a result of inappropriate broadcasting of Ukrainian channels, the information security of the people of Montenegro is being violated. The situation requires urgent response to ensure the interests of the state and citizens in this area. That's why I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Information Policy, to take appropriate measures to improve this situation. I also want to say a few words about yesterday. We colleagues can complain a lot about the imperfections of the laws prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. But you and I had the same three weeks to deal with them in detail on the committees of the Supreme Council. That is why I call on all colleagues to show wisdom and first and foremost responsibility to the Ukrainian people to vote next week's Parliament's passed-on legislation on visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u104	Dear friends, dear enemies! A few questions that remain in our country. And the first is war. She's gone nowhere, she's transformed, she's tactically changed her course. To this day, efforts and mine, including the military doctrine of our nation, have been adopted. A strategy for the development of the security and defence sectors has been signed. There's only one small moment left, one. Realize what we wrote ourselves. All of it. So I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately comply with the requirements laid down in these two strategic documents in order to increase the security of our state. We often hear from our Cabinet of Ministers that we don't have money for some kind of program, for some kind of social measure. That is, to put it mildly, not true. We don't just solve the issues, we don't just cover the issues of corruption, we don't just create new and new schemes of corruption. There's a wonderful example with the State Agency for Control of the Blackwater AES. Thank God, they've changed the leader. Until now, everything that was in the CHAES area has been transformed into money, berries, mushrooms, scrap metal, building materials, forests. It was simply a golden stream for the people who ruled this Statehood. At this point in particular, it is now prohibited to remove timber and scrap metal from the area. Investigations are being carried out on certain individuals who have officially signed a treaty by lowering the price of the forest by three hundred thousand cubic metres from the Blackbillis PD. I think that a lot of the schematics that I've seen while in the zone are, you know, a brain crash test, a post-Radians format where everyone from the head of the State to the cook of the last one, all of them, every DP has their own garage and their own dining room. We're melting Chernobyl, and it's not clear why, for the sake of two thousand people, who could have settled peacefully in the station itself. The issue of loading those radioactive waste processing plants that are built in modern times in Chaes territory has not been resolved. Our NAC Energoatoma decided more creatively, they're smarter, they decided to build such factories in the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u105	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u106	Construction of such factories, similar plants in the territory of each nuclear station in Ukraine. The answer. If you ask, why, the answer is very simple: It is not possible to steal waste from one plant. It's better to steal when you're building, there, 5 or 6 factories each. It's much easier for the people who run these NACAMs. Thank you. There are many ideas that we convey in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u107	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u108	Let's take a look at Kabmin. It's, there, and the reform of the gaming business, and the customs, the reform of the coal sector. We're writing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Lubinets, Peter Dust Block. Next we have a performance from Suhevich and through one Lensky, the Radical Party of both. And they pass both words to Halasyuk, and it's not going to be three minutes, it's going to be six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine! This week in Parliament, we discussed extremely important laws on visa liberalisation. But I would like to point out that much more important for Ukraine today are laws that will allow for the creation of European living conditions in Ukraine that will allow for the creation of new jobs. To invest in Ukraine, to build a strong economy based on tax revenue from the growth of an entrepreneur, not from the economic downturn that is happening today. In order for this to happen, you have to do two main things, without it there's nothing. First. These are radical and institutional reforms. This is a full relaunch of the Ukrainian judicial system, it's a full relaunch of the prosecutor's office and the public service. Those who do not understand are either not living in Ukraine or living in a parallel world. When I am told that the Venice Commission does not fully agree with this radical approach, the Venice Commission does not live in Ukraine. Every person in Ukraine today knows what such a judicial system is, like no 90, 80 percent as a minimum, is totally inconvenient, corrupt, inefficient, and does not protect the rule of law in the country. That is why the authorities today need to hear the demands of civil society, of all citizens and entrepreneurs. At each conference, when you talk to business, this requirement is one of the first: to ensure the rule of law in the state. Not only do 10 percent of the judges change their faces, change their faces, or do some formal cosmetics, but they fully recharge the system. I would like to point out that in addition to relaunching the judicial and prosecutorial systems, we need to do the same with the public service. That's why the Radical Party faction ruled 2552, which envisions a major reform of the public service, so that, not the way it is now, a reduction of 5-10 percent and so on, the system and the same. We need new rules of play, tough responsibility, a new structure of authorities that are capable of ensuring the implementation of state policy, including economics, in the interests of Ukraine, for the benefit of every citizen. The government system in the state should work for a citizen, for an entrepreneur, for a taxpayer, not against him, as it is today. Therefore, the Radical Party faction introduced to Parliament a package of Bills 3309 and 3310 on the personal ownership of each examiner in the country. It's not just the taxpayers, it's about any controller who can fine an entrepreneur, so he knows that when he imposes a fine illegally, not on a reasonable basis, he's going to match all his assets, not like today, he's protected by underprivileged legislation. This is the first radical reboot and legality in the country. The second is the creation of quality new economic conditions. There's no longer a chance for the country to drift as it is today, we're drifting to the chasm. In order to change the situation, we need to immediately consider radical liberalisation of the tax system, this is Bill 3357, which was introduced to Parliament by the 115 people's deputies, so we have here as soon as possible next week to consider it, together with the Ministry of Finance, to work on the second reading. This is a series of laws that are important, including those introduced by the Radical Party. About an expert credit agency. In order to lend lost loans to Ukrainian exporting producers in order to help the Ukrainian producer enter foreign markets. It's not political declarations, it's not just some focal points in ratings, it's real money, as all other countries in Europe do, as the United States does. Today, it is vital that an additional import congregation be removed from the raw materials used by Ukrainian producers. The government tells us, we'll do it in a few months, but a few months, it's an eternity for Ukrainian manufacturing companies. We have to do this this week, you know, you can't delay it! What surprises me is that there is an empty hall in the Supreme Council when the leadership of the Supreme Council is incomplete? I have a question: do we not have important economic laws? Why are we not working full - time on Friday, and the Rules need to be changed? Let's change it. Do we have to work on the weekends? Let's work on the weekends. How long can you pretend that nothing is happening in the country? A whole series of sectoral bills need to be adopted, supporting the agricultural producer: 2585. Concerning support for domestic metallurgy: 2031a, support for woodworking, furniture industry: 2617 and 2618 How many can these laws be translated, each time for the next week? These marvelous economic laws in the country have already accumulated nearly 30! Their acceptance will allow for a change in the course of the country's development, from decline to development. How much you can live on if you export raw materials, talented people abroad, and then buy ready-made products for foreign loans. This is a disgrace to the leadership of the state, to preserve this situation -- we need radical changes, transformations for the sake of European prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please report to Igor Sobolev. Please, Igor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u112	Yesterday, the Self-Help faction began to discuss the transition. In fact, as in our decision to still work in the coalition, there are a lot of positives and a lot of negatives. The main problem of this Parliament, this governing coalition, this government, which, under the same terms as the European Ukraine, the opposition to corruption, the integration with the European Union and the abolition of cars, is being done, done and meant by absolutely the opposite things. The coalition has people who are still in the position of Mikhailo Ohendowski, a symbol of the falsification of elections, who again failed the task of holding honest elections, and what happened in Mariupola and Krasnoarmsky is nothing different from what happened in Yanukovich's time, except perhaps one: people have risen up and have not allowed great forgeries. But the role of the CLTC was to make these forgeries happen. Through them, the head of the Constitutional Court, Baulin, is the person who has personally given dictatorial powers to Yanukovic, and now decides for the whole country which the Law is constitutional, which is unconstitutional. Thanks to the same people who also call themselves "European Ukraine," who also talk about the need for European integration, still in the position of Victor Shockin, who has indeed turned into a tragic figure. And Ohendowski, Baulin, a vast number of opposition from the previous regime, and representatives of today’s authorities, likewise thanks to this sabotage in office. If the Attorney General's Office had been working, if the courts had been working, the country could have been assured within months, to have an understanding that everything had started to change, to have the same European path. The self-help proposal that will decide next week whether we stay in the coalition, whether we go into opposition, is the following: now is the time for terribly responsible decisions, when not words, and actions matter. You can make any kind of amendment to protect against discrimination against sexual and other minorities, but if there is such fraud, such fraud, such cover-up of criminals, it will never lead us to Europe. The government really believes that the adoption of laws by the Supreme Council in a situation where total corruption forces the European Union to stop funding, for example, the same anti-corruption prosecutor's office, is good. The government really believes, along with the President, that the untraceable trade in LNR and DNR is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u113	How much? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u114	The preservation of the open border with the state that attacked us and not just us will lead to visa-free regime. Self-help now calls for all forces, regardless of whether they are formally in opposition or in coalition, to unite around important decisions. The first is the appointment of an independent Attorney General. The second is the beginning of the replacement of judges, starting with higher courts. And the third is the start of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u115	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u116	Tax cuts, the start of the economy is a key task this fall for our parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u117	Thank you. And that's the last statement we're going to make. The bird gives the word to the deputy of Eden. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u118	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! We've just heard a very good speech from Jegor Sobolev and we've heard a call from the Self-Help faction. Now I would very much like the Self-Help faction to hear my address as a national MP and as a person who is very concerned about the fate of the forest sector. When we talk about getting the prosecutor, Attorney General Shokin, and collecting signatures so inspired, I want to say there's a shockin in the forest. And as of Monday, I will begin to collect the signatures of the National Deputies for the release of Alexander Petrovich Kowalczuk from the post of head of the State Agency. In six months, no substitute has been appointed, neither first nor second, nor any professional in the field. During six months, there was no transparent process of agreeing to the implementation of the wood. During a six - year period, corruption schemes of the days of Yanukovitch were restored to the hands of an expert in unprocessed wood and sawdust from the rainforests. During the six months, there is a huge disillusionment in reform workers, and more than that, at the College of MinAPK on October 19th, the concept of reform, institutional reform, where they plan to eliminate logging and create a mega-corruption body, a state corporation. Instead of forests, they want to make branches. It's going to be the release of the workers, and it's going to be the centralization of all the financial flows -- what we have in the corrupt Ukrispirt is what we have in the CDC and we don't see any enlightenment in the fight against corruption. And we want to create this right now in the State Department. So I call upon the colleagues of the former factions, be determined not to listen to what Minister Pavlenko tells you at the meetings, listen to common sense. I have sent you an official appeal and to Minister Pavlovenko to release this person from office and to start a real fight against corruption in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time. I'm giving Yegor Soboljevo a replica for 30 seconds. Please turn on the microphone from the spot. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u120	Thank you, National Deputy One, for calling the Self-Help faction. I promise we won't cover any of the corrupts. In the coming days, we will gather a special meeting with the participation of Kowalczuk and Minister Pavlenko, where we will invite you, to discuss the situation. Thank you for paying attention to the abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-06-m0.u121	Thank you. With your permission, I will also respond to these speeches, and the time has come for the MPs to speak. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues we had yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. So, dear colleagues, yesterday we had a very disturbing day at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we actually failed anticorruption laws for the first time in our activities since the first day. To this day, in very difficult opposition, the new Ukraine has defeated old forms and old schemes in this parliament. And yesterday was the first time that we didn't get the right number of votes when we passed laws, not just on a visa-free liberalisation plan, but, above all, anti-corruption laws. And this signal, we still have a chance to fix and make these changes. Of course, the Supreme Council is responsible for the state of the country as a whole. But we realize that we may not always be able to track and monitor the implementation of our bills by implementing structures. We may not always be able to fully influence these processes. But by creating a certain legislative field, we make the processes irreversible. Our anti-corruption laws in various areas -- and disclosure of information, access to public information, the Anti-Corruption Bureau -- they create a moment of irreversibility. I can't imagine the Supreme Council going to be able to cancel them someday. This is an investment in the future. This is a strong and serious contribution from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Every decision we make is of great importance, this is our responsibility, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is our homework to do. Tuesday, these bills will be back on the table. I would like to stress that they are, for me, the most anti-corruption bills. And I know what forces have united to prevent them from being accepted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like everyone to concentrate as much as possible. So that we could work on the weekends, working on the weekends, on Monday we could work out all the questions that arise. And I know that there will be a committee against the corruption of Yegor Soboljev to gather. I'm negotiating a committee of law enforcement. I call for active work so that every day, every hour, we can use it to get together in this room on Tuesday and finish the review of the visa liberalisation package for Ukrainians, following the adoption of the law of mutual anti-corruption. And I'm sure we can make it to victory. Like every time in all anti-corruption schemes, we were able to reach a positive decision by the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear colleagues, there will be another plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. And the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday 10 November at 10 a.m. And I call on all deputies to the maximum extent disciplined, mobilized to arrive at 10 a.m. on the morning of 10 November at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Happy birthday. I'll see you later.
