ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u1	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We will now consider a number of important drafts, including a bill that deals with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Fair Court Bill, those bills that have on the one hand to build effective anti-corruption mechanisms and, on the other hand, to stop the anti-corruption system. We know how many problems there are today when people cannot find justice in Ukrainian courts. It is Parliament’s responsibility today to make such important decisions. So I would ask all the national MPs, all the faction leaders, to invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:12:05]] 328 national deputies in the hall. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill (registration number 1660-d) is being submitted to your consideration in accordance with a decision adopted by Parliament. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the National Anti-Corruption Agency. The bill, prepared for second reading by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, reports. I would like to point out that there were several alternative bills, and it was up to me to have all the developers develop a single bill that could build an effective anti-corruption mechanism. Finally, this work will now be presented to you, honourable national deputies, and proposed for his support. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, I request your attention, because the law that is now being proposed for adoption is one of the key to meeting Midan's demands for a real fight against corruption. As you know, a decision has long been made to create a special National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption that will take care of this issue, not at all, but to concentrate its efforts on punishing officials in the first and second categories and related individuals. This law is designed, more importantly, in the river of the western approach, the European approach: that it is important not only to punish the corrupter but also to confiscate the looted property. This is the main task of this law. I know that there were a few questions in the session room about this law, and so, with your permission, I will answer them immediately. Question one: The question of confiscation of the property of a convicted corrupter. I will allow myself to explain the approach of this law by example. If the leadership of the National Anti - Corruption Agency leads the court and convicts the minister who took the bribe, then the property or property associated with it, who are only fictitious owners, may be confiscated. I would like to point out to the MPs that there will be no change in the existing Ukrainian legislation for the individuals associated with this prison minister. The civil law procedure will apply to the property that will be associated with this corrupt minister and is based on legal persons. This means that an offshore firm that allegedly has corrupt property will be invited to court, and in the event of a failure to appear on the second and third occasions, the judge will be able to make a decision, a legal decision on the matter without his representation, and eventually confiscate the property. This procedure, tested in a number of European countries and in Georgia, has shown its effectiveness and is offered to you. Another concern of national deputies was the appointment of the director of the Anticorruption Committee and its removal. The compromise between the factions has been found, it sounds like the director of the Anti-Corruption Committee. nominees for commission; of the top three members, the President elects one to be appointed director. Next. In the case of his activities, there are five reasons why he may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u3	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u4	The new reason and the removal of the director is the negative conclusion of the international audit. If there is such a conclusion or other reason to eliminate, such as death, denial, or parliament, or the President has the right to decide on the removal of such a director. There is a balance between the branches of power and the coalition's consensus. I want to point out that the proposed text will enter this law after we vote, because this compromise has just been reached on the council of the coalition. So he appoints a president of three of his proposed individuals. Period. Takes off, for reasons defined in this law, either the President or the parliamentary majority. I've got everything. I am very much asking to vote in favour of this law, because this is a war against corruption, no less than a war against Russian-terrorist invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u5	Please, maybe there are questions? Because it's very important, it's not predictable, but it's not. Please, I think. I think we can. Please, co-reporter Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u6	My colleagues, congratulations! I think everyone understands that this law is a test of how capable we are of fighting corruption and how capable we are of starting with ourselves. I know that a lot of parliamentarians are comparing this law to themselves, and that's what concerns them, but that's the fate of our parliament to start with. The first is to show an example of how we're giving up the inviolability, how we're ready to confiscate property that we can't explain, and how we're giving a powerful signal to all society that we're really starting to fight corruption. We found all the political compromises that we could find. There's been a lot of discussions with every faction, with experts. All we could do to adopt this law was do. Now let's vote for him. The Supreme Council Committee on Anti-Corruption and Prevention of Corruption asks Parliament to adopt legislation in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u7	Please. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. This bill has been a long time. It's been working for a long time, and there's already an understanding, on all the questions that have been said. No questions or answers are provided here. It's a second reading procedure. So, are you ready to vote, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u8	With an amendment, which. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to invite the deputies. I'm asking you to invite the deputies. Please invite the deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We will now vote in favour of the anti-corruption law, the Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. With the amendments that have been announced. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, take your seats, we will now vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I invite the committee head to the rostrum, please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! Ready to vote? There are a few amendments, as we have now. I propose to vote a bill, registration number 1660, where the rights that Yuri Lucenko has announced, as well as amendment No. 17, paragraph 2, which states that assets on a large scale in this article are understood as money or other property, as well as income from them, if their size and cost exceeds 300, to replace 300 by a thousand untaxed citizens' incomes. This is the amendment of National Deputy Cranville, Tetjana Cnerville, People's Front. Dear colleagues! I understand that there is no objection to anyone, so as a whole, with the committee working on it, the decision that I announced, or the proposals that Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko made regarding the appointment. I'm betting on a second-read vote and, in general, draft registration number 1660-D. Please vote, Your Honor, on the second reading and in general, as amended by Yuri Lucenko, and I have just announced one amendment to which Tetjana Crnowil is the author. Please vote. [[16:24:06]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! A bill, which has also been drafted, 1656 registrations, is being submitted to your consideration. Ukraine's law on ensuring the right to a fair trial. As soon as it came in, a proposal was made to work it out editorially, since it is large and to move its consideration. But before that, I would like to inform the People's Deputy Knazevitch, the head of the profiling committee in this bill. We're still going to figure out what we're going to do. I think we can accept it today, because a working group has been working on it for a month, which has adopted absolutely all the amendments, and there is now a decision by the positive committee on resolving these issues, please calm down, listen carefully. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, thank you. I'll try very hard. The matter of what you recall is that the Supreme Council made an unusual decision when it proposed and supported a decision on the basis of two essentially related bills. This is a bill by the President of Ukraine (1656) on ensuring the right to a fair trial, as well as a bill by our colleagues (number 1497). amending the Law on the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges on the improvement of the principles of the organization of judicial authority in accordance with European standards, by the authority of the national deputies of Ukraine, Siroid and others. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the same time as the adoption of the relevant decision, entrusted the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice with a view to the irregularity of the situation, to consider these two bills accordingly and to propose that the session hall be considered on the basis of the two bills. Yes, it is in the transcript of the Supreme Council, and according to this transcript, we have received a certain commission from the Head of the Supreme Council. The committee further established a working group that conceptually spoke about the principal, basic positions contained in the two bills and made its proposals and recommendations on what the general text proposed by the committee should be. The committee further invited the drafters of the legislative initiative to work together to find as much contact points as possible to allow the process of drafting a single bill that would be proposed on behalf of the committee in the session room as harmonized. As a result of this work, I think the desired result has been achieved to a large extent, and a large number of the basic things that were in the two bills have resulted in a single common denominator. Of the principled decisions that were taken, the first was that, according to the proposal of the authors of the bill's legislative initiative under number 1497, Bill No. 1656 was determined by the committee's decision as being fundamental, since it had the largest number of amendments. And the proposals contained in Bill 1497 proposed proposals and amendments to Law 1656. Therefore, the committee decided that, on the basis of Law 1656 itself, it would be possible to work out an agreed option that could be proposed for consideration of a session of Parliament. This morning, the committee reviewed the proposals that had been made and considered a whole series of conceptual proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u12	One minute. What was the decision we made today to propose to the session room a decision and to adopt a bill of 1656 as a whole, taking into account the amendments agreed upon by the author's team of both bills, and also taking into account today's decision by the committee on the fundamental issues that were before the committee. And I'm also going to report to you that a compromise solution is proposed by the committee, because there are some colleagues who think that we should continue to work on this bill. We made a consensus decision that all the changes proposed by our colleagues to the procedural codes were not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u13	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u14	We don't need to be the subject of this bill, we're removing it from the body of the bill, we're proposing it to everyone. to all authors to continue working on a comprehensive comprehensive bill to amend Ukraine's procedural codes. Moreover, a consensus decision from the body of the bill proposes to remove the section on electronic litigation, as there are different visions of this process, and it was worth working out a specific, separate law to amend Ukraine's legislation. And the last block that we delete at this stage is the financial and technical security of the courts and the judges, because a whole bunch of things need to be changed to the budget code, to the other codes, and obviously, at this point, there's no point now that we don't agree to make proposals to Parliament. And finally, the last thing the committee has come to and what is being offered to you. We suggest that this bill be put into effect as soon as it becomes effective, it will only be voted on as part of the formation. further refinement of the Higher Qualifications Commission and the High Council of Justice, since the Transitional Regulations suggest that the Higher Qualifications Commission and the Higher Council of Justice be reformed. All the rest of this bill is proposed in this draft, which is given to you, to take effect a month after it has voted, according to Parliament as a whole. This allows us, firstly, to continue working on this bill, and secondly, as we have promised the public, to send this bill to the Venice Commission for an expert opinion and taking into account that the Venice Commission will give us back its expert view of this bill, we will be able to react quickly, and if we need to propose some changes until the bill becomes effective. I finished the talk. What I can say is that, in this regard, we propose to the authors of other bills introduced by the authors, our colleagues, at number 1497, the Supreme Council to remove from consideration how one who simply takes into account possible adoption (1656) would lose the meaning of further consideration and acceptance in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u15	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Ruslan Petrovich. I think we need to make up our minds. A very important bill. And we need to hear the position from the factions. Please, Yuri Lucenko, the Peter Dust Block. With regard to the issue of the law on fair trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u16	Dear Head, dear colleagues! As I opened the news this morning, I personally saw the news that the Attorney General sent three judges to the Supreme Council for arrest. [[Applause]] But the question is that cleaning up those who for decades have been involved in perjury is necessary systematically. Not each one of us gets to put the Supreme Council in order of the day. Finally, it is necessary to adopt a law that will work for the High Council of Justice, a High Qualifying Commission that will clean up the entire judiciary, not just this wicked Cave Court! That is the approach you are proposing today. This is the first step in judicial reform. He'll be sent to the Venice Commission. And after it's concluded, we might be able to bend it. But you can’t put that question down for a month, for two, for five, for ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u17	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u18	We need to act. There's no time. The same Majdan, mentioned in the previous Anticorruption Bureau Act, also requires action by us and the cleansing of the judicial branch of power. There is nothing in a country where there is no trial. No economy, no justice, no culture, no international investment, no human rights protection. I ask all--both the coalition, and the opposition finally to uphold the law on the cleansing of the judiciary, the restoration of justice and the rule of law in this "murdered" country! We vote in favour and we do what the Ukrainian people hired us to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you this. As long as this 9th-thousand army of criminals in the Manti Courts are trying to do what they call judiciality, and in fact they're just counting their wallet, there will be no fair trial in this country. That's why we, and the President, have proposed a massive re-testing of all the judges in our country, of all 9,000. We have to test them for three requirements. The first requirement is professional. At the very least, these judges should be professional lawyers. The second requirement is material. Their yachts, their houses, their apartments have to match the fixed salary they received in the court’s office. If there is a discrepancy, then the case is referred by the prosecutor for investigation, and such a judge clearly has no right to be a judge and to exercise justice. The third requirement is moral and ethical. This judge is to be responsible for his qualities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u21	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u22	And the status under which he makes a decision in the name of Ukraine. It is therefore important to understand that, before the changes to the Constitution, it is early to talk about the completion of judicial reform. But we have to move in that direction, and where we can change the law, we're going to change the law. And finally, we're going to take the first but very important step in our country to have a fair trial and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Of course, the judicial system must be radically altered. That judicial system, the quasi-judicial system that is now in Ukraine, has, like that Carthage, to be destroyed to the ground. Because it's not a judicial system, and it's a system that allows people to be robbed if you don't have mud, no hairy hands, and no money, you're not going to achieve anything in this so-called judicial system, so surely you need to reform it. At the same time, the bill stated, let us speak objectively, frankly, it will not revolutionize the judicial system, although there is a great deal of novelism that will allow for the expansion of reasons for bringing judges to justice and simplifying the mechanism of accountability, the work of the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualificational Commission of Judges. So it'll give you the tools to get judges to be held accountable for unfair decisions. At the same time, the table that was given is one and a half thousand pages of text.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u25	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u26	What national deputies should be able to get to know, read, and draw their conclusions. That's why I'm proposing. To postpone consideration of this very important bill to tomorrow. Tomorrow we'll vote for it consciously when we see what we're voting for. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Get the judges out of here! And follow the rules in the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u27	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland. Then there's Vitaly Hometic. And then Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u28	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this may be the most difficult decision to make today. Does this bill determine the reform of the judicial system? I think everyone in this room understands very well that they don't. Can this be resolved within the framework of an existing Constitution? I may surprise you, but a number of issues can be resolved within the framework of an active Constitution. First of all, this is true of the peace judges. And we'd unload 80 percent of the work of ordinary courts and clean up the corruption component. We could do a key thing where decisions of the Supreme Court would be required to be implemented throughout Ukraine for subsequent court decisions in order to remove the corruption component, unfortunately, we did not go for it. But a whole series of moments have been able to get into this bill, and that's why there's a feeling you know there's a twofold feeling -- it's not a revolution, it's a step, but it's a very, very careful step.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u29	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u30	That's why our faction's proposal is next. We understand that the key things that we can do are only by adopting the changes to the Constitution, and we suggest that we adopt this text as a committee. We have two principles of amendment, we would like them to be voted in the Hall -- this is about the need to refer to the Supreme Court's decision so that we don't have a Donetsk, a Levite, a Penitentiary, or any other judicial system. And the second is that it refers to the order of immediate dismissal of judges when we set up a perfectly clear mechanism to release them for violation. Therefore, under these two conditions, we believe that this bill, at least as the first stage of judicial reform, could be supported. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u31	Thank you! Please, Oleg Berezuk. Then there's Vitaly Hometic. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a truly important day, and we will be adopting one of the laws that will have to be passed in order to reform the judicial system. After this Law, which is called "The Fair Court," a fair court won't be fair overnight, it takes a lot and a lot of hard work to change it, first of all, the Constitution. And so I'm curious, dear colleagues, why we have so far, on our constant expectations, we have not created a special commission to start reforming the Constitution that we are waiting for. These papers are still "warm," they've just been brought by the committee, we're voting for this law because it's philosophically correct and necessary, but we're going to vote tomorrow when the legal group of our faction at least reads whether the corrections we made are in writing. Tomorrow we vote calmly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u33	Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u34	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the MP's Economic Development Group is ready to support the Fair Court Rights Bill, but at the same time, we need to see the table. As far as we know, the factions of our faction were working on the committee, there was a terrible discussion, and the 4,000 proposals that came to this bill today are not handed out, we haven't even seen the final edition. For us, the principle is the amendment of 3,000 79, which says that this bill enters into force after the Venice Commission's conclusions, so that it doesn't happen like the Book of Illustration Act, when the law was passed, and after the head of the Venice Commission asked the President to suspend the bill. So if the head of the profiling committee is able to respond to this amendment, our parliamentary group will make a final decision on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, we always have to feel the situation. Very many people in the room today say, let's vote today, we've worked hard enough and we've decided on this vote. We can make a completely wise decision. I don't mind reading it and looking at the editorial papers there, and putting it out for tomorrow, and voting. We can make a signal vote now, let's see, or not to split the hall at all, then move it. Let's focus on the signal vote, focus, colleagues. Let's make a signal vote. Please vote on the signal vote. [[16:44:44]] For 239. There are voices. Dear friends! I'm betting on a bill that, Oleg. There are voices, let's vote. We have five days, we have five days, we have five days of technical work and we work together. 1656 is a draft detainment bill. ensuring the right to a fair trial with technical and legal rights on second reading and as a whole as a committee. In the drafting of the committee with technical law, in the second reading and in general. Let's vote, my friends, let's support the fight against crime in the courts. Vote. Please determine by vote. In the second reading and in general. [[16:45:38]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, I think we've talked to you about technical law, and there's no problem in processing it. If our partners have problems or objections, we can work it out and settle it in terms of change. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u36	Oleg Lazko. First, Vladimir Borisovich, please announce to all Ukrainian citizens who voted and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u37	I'm announcing it. Please announce. Signal vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u38	Let all of Ukraine see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u39	Signal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u40	No, no, second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u41	No, give me a signal vote, give me a signal vote. I asked you, you know, don't speculate. I asked you for advice, put you to a vote when I saw that the Ukrainian Parliament was ready to vote, and then I put you to a vote. However, millions of Ukrainian citizens will not tolerate arbitrary acts in Ukrainian courts. We speak here today, we talk, and in these times, we make an unfair decision, criminals get bailed out. The FSBs are issuing courts for diversions against Ukrainian citizens. And that's unacceptable. There is a question, we are working on, there is a conclusion of the Venice Commission, today Parliament is showing that it can work, and there is no problem in that. And you don't have to blame anyone right now, and the month worked to find an understanding of this decision, and they voted in the committee's editors. There will be specific questions - please ask and support the hall. Am I right, my dear colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] But there will be no more crime in the courts. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u42	Please let me speak to the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u43	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Thank you so much for your support. In fact, once again for the transcript, I would like to point out that we voted for an editorial that, except for those provisions that relate to the refinement of the Higher Qualification and the High Council of Justice, all the rest of the positions will become valid one month after today's vote. During this time, the text will be sent to the Venice Commission. We're going to get their conclusions, and we're going to be able to get a comprehensive approach in a month, and we're going to look again, given this conclusion, at the text that we've voted on today. No one will without a doubt take any action now until we are clearly based on the thinking of the European public. Thank you. Thanks again for the support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u44	Thank you. Thank you. Please, just a minute from the rostrum, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I address you. An important law has just been passed. But when you're told that this law will allow for a revolution in the judiciary, it's not true. For it is impossible to do righteous things in an unrighteous way in violation of the requirements of the Law of Rules. And you can't hide from good intentions, you know where the road is. Two days ago, they voted in favour of the general prosecutor’s murderous bloc, which would seem to be fighting the Yanukovich gang. Now two factions of coalitions have been ignored, with positions and proposals to vote on this law tomorrow, with all procedures being followed. I want Ukrainian citizens to see what is happening in the Supreme Council now: under beautiful words, wrong things are done against the requirements of the law and in violation of the Constitution. And in doing so, they cover themselves with the words: “Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! But shame on those who break the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u46	Dear fellow national MPs! Allow me to say the following with great respect. Parliament itself cannot fight corruption physically in any way; it can only convince itself to fight corruption inside the room. But we can create grounds on which the Attorney General, the law of Ukraine, which can be adopted in these walls, will allow the creation of tools to combat corruption, to combat the injustice that is now in Ukraine. And this is what the Ukrainian Parliament is demonstrating. I can only say one thing, dear colleagues, one thing. That I just asked who voted in favour of this bill in the hall. Well, first of all, I asked the room for advice, although I think we should adopt this law today, and I voted for it myself. By your signal vote, you have confirmed the willingness to vote in favour of this bill. Second position. No voice, as I understand it (please put it out), is a voice from the Opposition Block, as the Secretariat has told me, for this law has not been surrendered! Zero! Zero! Zero! 130, 73, 0, Self-help – 2, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 13, Economic Development – 2, Will of the People – 14. So, dear friends, I would ask everyone to calm down. Decision taken. It's going to be worked out. With great respect to self-help colleagues. Please show the signal vote on the screen. And by factions, let's say. We can't? I'm going to ask you to print it, and we're going to read who voted. So the decision is made, no offense at all. We're working on everything that needs to be worked out in technical law, in the drafting of the committee, which is what we've been talking about. We'll send him to the Venice Commission, and it was agreed. That is why today Parliament voted according to the will and signal vote of Parliament itself. Dear colleagues, there is one decree of staff. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the signal vote, the Opposition Block didn't vote either. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're working. Oleg Beresuk. Please, Oleg Berezuk, a minute, and let's move on to the agenda of the next day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies! Dear viewers and people! There is no doubt that the water is driven on the offended. There's nothing to be offended about. Dear colleagues, we've just been cheating on ourselves for the second time this week and we're looking forward to it. Such a famous Russian writer asked, "Who are we laughing with?" And on whom do we whistle and howl? A law on judiciality and a fair court has just been passed in violation of all the laws of the Ukrainian Parliament. So be happy, but know that this is no reform. This could be reform and it would be reform if we followed the rules with you. Now don't be happy, don't clap, just think, because we've just voted against ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Well, look what you've done in the signal vote right now. Listen!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u49	Dear National Deputies! There's a call for a vote in the room. Unfortunately, our "Council" system can only show the last vote. So they brought the printing, and I'll read it as required. So in the signal vote, the Party of Peter Prashenko, 123 votes in favour, the political party of the People's Front, 65 votes in favour, the faction of the political party of the Opposition Block, 0 votes, the faction of the political party of Self-Help, 1 vote. Attention! Oleg Laska's Radical Party, "for" to 18 votes. Economic Development Group – 0, the All-Ukrainian "Patochina" - 12, "Will of the People" - 11, non-factional - 9. This is actually the result of voting in a signal vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u50	Wait a minute. Yuri Voropeiev, the Opposition Block, has been mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u51	Can't I see what you're looking forward to?Oh, my God! Every time you step on the same rakes, you pass a law you've never seen. You brought it hot, you didn't read it, and you voted. As with the Budget Act, as was the case with the laws of many others. We have to read the laws. Otherwise, laws can't be passed. Please don't break the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft regulation is being considered, the draft Act more precisely (registration number 1058) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (with regard to removing regulatory barriers to the development of public-private partnerships), reports National Deputy Kugel. But before that, I would like to ask you to make a motion for a brief vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:55:42]] For 216 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, Alexander Kugel. I'm asking everyone to focus, with a reduced procedure, on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u53	Good afternoon! Once again, dear friends. I'm sorry if I was emotional about that report because every bill I report here is not a lobbyist law of some business -- it's a lobbyist law of the entrepreneurial environment of Ukraine. Dear friends, please remember when you approach and meet investors, what are the main questions they ask, a requirement for you to come to Ukraine? First. So there'll be a trial and there'll be a right. The other one. So they can freely bring in the currency and take out the currency. Third. So there's no change in legislation and they can save and make money here and save it. And that's why our government with the President commissioned the USAID and Laurel Noel conducted a study on their mission. Listen to who? Foreign investors, why don't they want to work in Ukraine? And this study shows why they don't want to work in Ukraine. This bill is developed by the Ministry of Economics, the USAID program in part of the implementation of these proposals, so that in April, when the President invited investors to the conference, we can show that we hear them and take steps that will not only allow us to do budget sequesters, but also open jobs. So that people can make money and we have infrastructure and businesses in Ukraine. And that's why I'm asking you very much to support this bill in the first reading. There will be no accelerated procedure. Whoever has any warnings, we're ready to work. But believe me, Ukraine needs 100 today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u54	Please, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u55	Ukraine needs $100 billion just to develop infrastructure. We have no other step than to make transparent legislative provisions attractive to investors, a public private partnership that extends to local administrations. I'm very grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u56	Thank you. Please report to Victor Halasyuk, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u57	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supports the adoption of Bill 1058 in the first reading. I would like to highlight some very important positions. First, this bill is supported by a number of international organizations, including USAID, in close cooperation with which it was developed. It is supported by the American Chamber of Commerce, it is supported by the Kyiv City State Administration. Because it opens the way for private investment in infrastructure. There's a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration with some observations. I would like to highlight only one principled distinction that we should now withdraw from the voice. We have a note from the anti-corruption committee. We agree with the head of the anti-corruption committee that allows it to be removed. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the proposal of our committee is to accept the first reading as a basis for the following amendment. On page 3, in the amendment to article 6 (where it comes from the first part), set out in the next line. We propose, together with the Anti-Corruption Committee, the words "without applying the procurement procedures provided for by the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement" and the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Economic Activities, replace the words "with a negotiated procurement procedure provided for by the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement." What are we talking about? That, on the one hand, a private partner would have a clear guarantee of public procurement and, on the other hand, of maintaining a competitive mechanism for such purchases. So, dear colleagues, I emphasize that the mechanism of public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u58	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u59	Today, it is one of the most real or not the only mechanisms for private investment, including infrastructure. In Ukraine, this will allow foreign loans, not in the form of aid from the International Monetary Fund, but in the form of loans for industrial development and infrastructure. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the committee requests that the bill be supported in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss it? Is that right? Please sign in: two for, two against, and then. You don't have to ask questions, two for, two for against. Please. Amelchenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u61	Basil Amelchenko, Oleg Laschka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u62	Radical Party, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u63	Our faction supports this law. That's why I'm also asking you not to waste too much time discussing it, and to vote for it unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u64	Thank you. The next is National Deputy Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u65	Dear National Deputies! This law amends the current Law on State Private Partnership. But this law contains full standards that prevent me from talking about the possibility of recommending it for adoption even in the first reading. Why? What changes are made to this law that is proposed to us? It introduces a new form of state-private partnership, which is the transfer to the administration of public property. If anyone remembers, 15 years ago there was such a form of privatization in Ukraine, a popular form of privatization, such as privatization without privatization or privatization of profits, when a state enterprise was transferred to the administration of private structures. This law still does not sin on the responsibility of a private partner to the state, but it does in general allow you to avoid any responsibility, because the law allows you to transfer the rights under a contract to the enterprises you have created. And let me remind you that Ukrainian legislation does not provide for the founder’s responsibility for the undertaking he created. Third. If you've taken a state-owned enterprise, you're not covered by the Public Procurement Act. The state partner has the right to buy any product by passing the tender procedure. Of course, under state-private partnership conditions there is no competitive land allocation, the land is passed on without a competition. Finally, the Transfer Price Act does not work, you have the right to open foreign currency accounts, you are not limited to the right to transfer foreign currency, you do not have to sell currency, you have to return currency in 180 days. And the last. The law contains a denial of judicial jurisdiction. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u66	Please, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u67	The law provides for the operation of foreign courts, which means legislation. Although the International Law on International Private Law provides for exclusive jurisdiction of Ukrainian courts in all disputes over immovable property objects. I propose not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u68	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! I want to emphasize what Victor Mikhailovich says. First of all, the law with my voice is amended by the Act on State Procurement, but it clearly says "purchasing a single customer." Secondly, what you're saying is that another firm is being created is the only practical mechanism for a foreign investor to work in Ukraine and we're doing it with the Ministry of Economics. Thirdly, if we don't introduce specialities to the state-private partnership that we're talking about, including currency sales, today we're not going to involve any investors in Ukraine. So, Victor Mikhailovich, you've shown how you're capable of investing foreign investment in Ukraine, so we need to make a joint coalition agreement, so this is a very important law for foreign investment. There are letters from international financial organizations that don't spend money on food, but on infrastructure development, including the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that we have considered this bill on the Committee on European Integration to comply with European legislation. And the conclusion, and the experts of our committee, and the unanimous decision of the committee members, and the government office on matters of European integration, that it is not in line with European legislation. Because European legislation requires, however, a transparent, alternative, effective mechanism to ensure transparency for discrimination against free competition, which is not in the law. So we propose that we send this law for further work and ask that we take this unanimous opinion of the Committee on European Integration into account. Because Parliament, in making its decisions, still has to make decisions, and based on our commitments in the context of the implementation of the ratified Association Agreement, part of which is the adaptation of our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u73	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. Society, you and I in this room stopped the criminal privatization of de jure a few weeks ago, the legally established criminal privatization of profitable state enterprises and strategic enterprises. Today in this bill, we already have de facto criminal privatization, to which I propose, in fact, once again, de facto, to privatize a number of enterprises, particularly natural monopolies, such as the Crossroads, such as natural monopolies, which provide the population with adequate services, water, electricity and so on. Such a bill cannot be voted on even in the first reading. So a state-owned private enterprise, partnership, has the right to be, but not in a way where you absolutely allow to transfer assets to these private partners, where they can together create new investment objects, implement them, and then not have the responsibility of a private partner to transfer them back to the state, and so on and so forth. Do not engage in such hidden privatization. I call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u74	Final word, Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, when the President was here, you saw me, I went to him and asked, Mr. President, in your statement, you said you needed a very public private partnership in the defense order. Do you support the bill in the first reading? He said, “Alexandra, make sure you call Shimkov and tell him that this is the most important piece of legislation. ” What Freedom is proposing is that we have a bill, we have no investors, my family, no one is coming to you. Because the courts don't fit in, because the National Bank isn't a partner, because we have raids, corruption, and foreigners, I showed you research, said, we're making a condition. First. Mr. Pinzenik, I told you that a section of monetary regulation is passed into one of the comas into the distribution law, so it can't violate anything. This is a valid norm for another state regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u76	Please, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u77	Dear National Deputies, this is the first reading, we have a great trial with you, we have a budget sequester preparing the government. What are you going to do with the business, with the offer of investors to invest in your broken children's institutions, theaters, gyms, water ducts, and, including, the railway? The law on public private partnership is written down, please read Mr. Levchenko, which cannot be changed in the form of property, for the duration of the contract. The state will receive a remodeled garden, or water canal, and the investor will earn money. Mr. Klitschko is here, he signed the bill's support, and you know why? It was visited by French people who are offering to take a water channel into the state’s private partnership and we have a letter of support from Mayor Kiev. Yes, please vote on this law in the first reading and work together on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please. Look, there are two positions, from the point of view of voting. First of all, there is a proposal for the committee to vote on it as a basis and work out what the committee head said or whether we will continue to make any decisions. What needs to be addressed, one hundred percent, is that there is a warning about non-compliance with European legislation, which can be corrected from first to second reading. So I'd like everyone to take their seats right now. Please take your seats and go to the vote in favour of the bill (registration number 1058), the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to remove regulatory barriers to the development of the public private partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment. Taking into account the position expressed by the head of the sectional committee on change. I want to remind you that the bill is based on voting, which means that we can work out the decisions needed for the second reading. But your right to vote on this matter. Please, Your Honor, I'm putting a bill (registration number 1058) on the ground. Based on the suggestions made by the head of the profile committee, which was announced from the stand under the stenogram. Please vote on the basis. [[17:12:22]] For 234 [[Applause]] Friends, distinguished national MPs, I have great respect for what was voted in the first reading, but that doesn't mean anything. The point is that we need to work on the second reading. What a colleague Pinzenik and colleague Heratchenko said is important. So I would like to take this into account when preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, there is one humane question. I'm referring to you, it can be considered without being included in the agenda, it's Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 2051). It is the result of a decision taken by the faction of the Radical Party to exclude members of the faction of the national deputy Melniczuk Sergio Petrovic. The decision is given to you. This is about withdrawing Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich from the post of deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, as a result of circumstances that make it impossible for him to perform his duties and to relieve him of the duties of a member of this committee under the quota of a proportional representative of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. The point is that at the suggestion of the Radical Party he was included in this committee, and now the party is calling it off. A draft regulation is being introduced for your consideration. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Get ready, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. Registration number 2051. [[B in m in s a l in]] 2051 is based on the whole. Based on the base. Human resources, according to the Radical Party. On the basis and as a whole draft decree (2051), please vote, 2051. 2051 is based on the whole. [[17:14:31]] For 214 Who didn't make it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. I'm asking you, come on, colleagues, Project 2051 for your return. Please, in general, Decree No. 2051. Is everyone focused on the vote? All of them? We're voting 2051 in total. Please vote. 2051, please vote. It's a humane decision, I can make it. 2051. In general. [[17:15:21]] For 211 89, 62, 0, 22 - Self-help, Radical Party 21, Fatherland 15. Please, the author is Oleg Lazko. Listen carefully, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u79	Oleg Lazko, author of the bill. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who deprive our faction of the possibility of assigning its quota to factions of committee members. Each of you may be in this situation. So I'm asking you to support me, I'm calling you. It's not a joke. Tomorrow, when this situation arises, our faction will certainly vote in favour of your submission. It's a faction's right to delegate membership candidates to one or the other committees. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u80	You're looking at a staff decision, you don't need a return. Registration number 2051. Please prepare for the vote. In total, 2051. Please vote. 2051. In total, 2051. [[17:17:03]] For 218. Thank you. We voted three times for that decision. Dear colleagues, a bill (registration No. 1688) is being submitted to your consideration. What? Again? Go back to your seats. The human rights issue doesn't need a return, I can bring it in, I'm entitled to it. Please, Your Honor, draft decree. Listen, calm down, please! Let's make it quieter. Let's turn off the sound a little bit. A little bit. Please. Thank you. I'm betting on a draft regulation 2051 as a whole. Please vote. Please vote in total 2051. [[17:18:35]] For 221 [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. The replica. Yuri Lucenko. Calm down, please. It's a faction's right to delegate and recall its faction members. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! We all represent a faction here. I would now like to support the decision of one of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, which has defined the inadmissibility of Mr. Melniczuk's behaviour, has excluded him from the faction and has the right to withdraw her from the position she has appointed him. It's respect for the faction, for each other. It's now about the mechanisms of interaction in Parliament. Vote in favour, please, because this will allow this House to make a political decision, not to play a game of personal image or ambition. Please vote "yes" is the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u82	Please, Your Honor, this is the last time we're going to vote on this decision and we're going to put a dot on this. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. It's a personnel issue and it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. You heard the faction's position. Please, Decree (2051), in general. Please vote 2051, personnel decision for the Radical Party, faction. 2051- please determine by vote. [[17:20:36]] For 234 [[Applause]] Look, Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich! It's treason. I see one voice from the Opposition Block. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Thank you, thank you. Thank you. You don't see all the gold shining. Please, Your Honor, let's move on to the issues of the order of the day. Registration No. 1688, Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, on the Status of Persons Who Protected Independence, Sovereignty and Regional Integrity of Ukraine, Registration No. 1688. A proposal has been made to review the draft Law in a simplified manner. I would like to refer to the national MPs for consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. [[17:21:52]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, the head of the Committee, Alexander Trelyakow, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u83	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 1688 on amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guaranteeing their social protection is before you. The bill further streamlines the number of persons participating in the ATO who have the right to be a participant in hostilities, a participant in the war and a person with disabilities in the war. First addition to the law. This is the right to be a participant in hostilities. First, it is proposed that volunteers who had participated directly in the ATOs before they were formally legalized in voluntary formations consisting of the WCC, the ICC or the NCHWD. We remember, yes, the events of the spring and summer of this year, where there were many volunteers. It is very important not to forget them, for it is their patriotism and devotion that the Fatherland has produced a voluntary movement in Ukraine. Second, soldiers who took direct part in the ATO zone. That's next. State Special Transport Service, State Emergency Service, State Prison Service. Second addition to the Act. It's the status of a war invalid. It is proposed that volunteers be appointed by the military, civil servants of enterprises and organizations, members of voluntary battalions, provided that all the categories listed have been disabled as a result of direct participation in the ATO. Third addition to the Act. The Act on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees for Their Social Protection is proposed to extend to the families of the deceased volunteers, the families of the deceased volunteers and the families of the deceased employees who worked in the ATO zone. On condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u84	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u85	30 seconds. Provided that the death of volunteers, volunteers, has resulted directly, I stress once again the direct participation of ATOs or its provision. And the fourth supplement is about the following. Today, the issue of the status of civil combat actors is being strongly discussed in society. In the view of the Committee, it is not possible for civilians to participate in hostilities to be used only in hostilities. The adoption of this bill will allow us to ensure an adequate level of social protection for our children in the ATO. The Committee's decision on this matter is positive. I ask the people's deputies to support this bill in their first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss the bill or can we view it as a basis? Can we think of a basis? Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u87	I ask the people's deputies to support the bill, believe me, it's really very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u88	The committee's decision to adopt it as a basis and we'll work on the second reading accordingly. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ah, Mikola Tomenko. Mikola Tomenko, one minute. One minute, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important and our faction will certainly not support Alexander Tretlyakov's colleague, whom we respect and respect as those people who defended Ukraine's weapons of independence and territorial integrity. Instead, we need to be very careful about the second reading in the part of the rule that refers to a possible comparison to the status of a participant in the hostilities of those categories, especially government officials, who are, of course, written here, "Ensured the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation." Our position is that we need to analyze here so that, as I have seen, that prosecutors from Mariupul fought for Ukraine or some other officials. That is, we must give status to those who directly fought and protected Ukraine. This is our principle position, and the second reading needs to be redrafted so that there is no abuse. In the first reading, we support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u90	Thank you. Yeah, look, I'll just say the next thing. So, Peter Dustenka's Block supports, People's Front supports, I'm telling you right now, the Radical Party supports, the Fatherland supports, the Economic Development supports, the Self-Help supports. - Everybody backs up. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u91	Dear friends! I think that those who were participants in the ATO really need to properly address the status of an ATO participant. So I'm making a proposal, which we'll take into account in the second reading, that "a participant in ATO's combat actions can be considered a person who was directly attached to a specific military unit of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, or a voluntary battalion, to carry out a combat mission, and was on the line of direct bordering terrorist gangs under enemy fire, and was there for at least 30 days." It can only be for those who have been injured. Only such persons can participate in hostilities, not prosecutors or other officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u92	Thank you! This can be further developed into second reading. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please support this bill and the People's Front will vote for it because the bill restores justice and participants in hostilities are recognized as employees: the State Special Transport Service of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the State Service of Ukraine from extraordinary situations and the State Penitentiary Service. And I support our colleague Tomenko in saying that until the second reading, he needs to be worked so that no bastard can use this status to get social benefits. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u94	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please, National Deputy Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u95	Mr. Deputies! The Radical Party faction. Unfortunately, this bill is not perfect for the protection of our volunteers, but since it is a base, we hope that we will correct it for the second reading, because there is simply no time to register now. Many laws are registered, but they lie down. And that's why we need to support it right now, but it's usually about the second reading to change and improve with our volunteer boys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. We're all the only ones who need to vote as a basis, then the committee head said he was working on the right proposals that had just announced. For this reason, Bill No. 1688, according to the committee's decision, is being submitted to your vote on the basis. Please, Your Honor, vote. Based on the base. Let's support it. This refers to the status of war veterans. So this is an extremely important decision. Please. Let's support the first reading. Based on the base. [[17:30:27]] For 263 Thank you. Decision taken, my dear fellows. You have before you a bill (registration number 1046). A draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in case of unemployment. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[17:31:03]] For 203 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report by Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u97	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyiv district, 98 district. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to address the members of the Supreme Council with the fact that, God forbid, you will ever apply this law. But unfortunately, our unemployment in our country is rising, 35,000 entrepreneurs have stopped their jobs, hundreds of thousands of people today are unemployed. And today, there is no legislative issue that will ensure that these people are paid on time for unemployment. I mean, neither bylaws nor bylaws determines in any way when and in what way a jobless person will be provided. I'm proposing at the legislative level that this happens twice a month when a person comes to the department to confirm his status and get this little, meager, but still help. And the second question that solves this law is that it makes it impossible for a corruption element that says that if there's no mechanism for using insurance, these insurance costs through these funds can be wasted or somehow not come to these people. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u98	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, Druuk Sergey Euseiovich. Let's go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services has reviewed and supported the bill. Since this bill allows for better social protection and the legitimate interests of the unemployed. Yet the Ministry of Social Policy and the State Employment Centre also support the bill. But attention is drawn to the fact that valid employment legislation requires registered unemployed people to follow the State Employment Service’s recommendations regarding the visit to the Employment Centre, but not less than once every 30 calendar days. The main scientific and expert office supports the legislative initiative and proposes to adopt the bill on the basis of the proposals made in the first reading. In connection with article 24, paragraph 1, of this article, it is appropriate to provide that when a visit to the employment center takes place once every 30 calendar days, the payment is also made once a month. In view of the above, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, with the commission of the committee to prepare it for the second reading, taking into account the suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u100	Colleagues, is there a need to discuss the law? It doesn't, does it? If there is unity in this matter, I put to the vote a draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment (registration number of project 1046). Please vote this bill on the basis. Please decide how to vote. [[17:35:57]] For 230 Thank you. Bill 1537 is now being tabled. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Capital Investments. There is a request that we consider the draft law in a simplified way. Please support the proposal by voting, please. [[17:36:37]] For 169 Thank you. The report invites the Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Who's in charge of the minister, tell me? Deputy Minister Kachur Roman Pavlovich is invited to report under the law. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the Bill (1537) on amending the Budget Code with regard to state capital investments. This government bill was designed to improve the efficiency of the government's capital investments. Statistics show that developed countries spend 2.5 percent of GDP on capital investments, and developing countries spend 5. We're spending less than 1 percent in the previous year and about 1.7 percent two years ago. While this percentage is still low enough, the average cost of implementing projects in Ukraine is 22 per cent higher than in EU countries. So these costs are extremely inefficient. Implementation terms are on average longer than 4 years. And 90 percent of projects avoid economic justification because they are classified as construction projects. Thus, the existing system is sufficiently inefficient, situational and leads to a large number of projects being built in an unfinished phase. So we're proposing changes that allow, consistently, for not only one fiscal year, but also for the next two years and for the next two years, to include funding for those projects that are being implemented. The creation of a system of criteria that allows efficient projects to be selected. We've been very active in discussing these bills. This bill was on the parliamentary committees and there was a lot of discussion. In summary, I would like to say the position of the Ministry of Economics on the most controversial issues. First of all, we're ready to take down the 100 million criterion, which is to extend the bill to everyone, without exception, investment projects. Second, do not apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u102	20 seconds to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u103	apply the requirements for the registration of investment projects under the Investment Activities Act. And a very important point: this bill is a prerequisite for Ukraine to receive 1.3 billion dollars from the World Bank and credit from the Japanese government. He's in the middle.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u104	Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovic, is invited to the report. Come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u105	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues at its session considered a bill amending the Budget Code on State Investments (number 1537). The reporter gave us the basics of this bill. In general, the Committee on Budget Affairs supports the need to improve government investment management. However, the bill’s way of settling this issue, according to the Committee on Budgets, does not ensure that the goal is achieved. In particular, during the bill, most of the national deputies made comments about his position. First of all, it is pointed out that the proposed procedure for determining and distributing government funds for the time being is not tested in practice, which makes it impossible to assess its effectiveness and effectiveness. On the basis of the Government's constitutional mandate to develop the State Budget project, it would be appropriate to first adjust the issue to the government's decision and to deal with the drafting of the State Budget, which would result in the need to resolve the issue on a permanent basis in the Budget Code. A warning has also been made regarding the need for the establishment of a government interdisciplinary commission to distribute state-owned capital deposits to the principal supervisors and investment projects. Therefore, in view of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 1537 on the basis of a first reading review to return the author to the legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, members of the committee expressed their willingness to join the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u106	Please give me 20 seconds to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u107	We don't mind settling and improving the use of public investment, but today, unfortunately, it is. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u108	Thank you. I understand that there is a need for discussion under this bill, and so I'm asking you to sign up: 2 for, 2 against. Please give the floor to a representative of the People's Front, Mr. Korchik. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u109	Please give the floor to the national MP Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u110	If I've heard correctly, Ungurian will pass on the word. Yeah? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, we have now heard the introduction of this bill from the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. A bill introduced by the government. In general, as has already been seen in the budget committee's position, the idea is to structure the approach and make capital investments that are formulated in the state budget go towards investment projects. But what I want to remind you is that we have not yet passed the law on investment and the initiative. As proposed today, it is derived from the Investment Activities Act. In addition, it certainly raises questions, many questions, why 100 million, why not 50 or 200 million, should be a criterion for investment. In addition, it raises questions about the formation of an interdisciplinary group that will be distributing projects before the budget is adopted. I want to remind you that spending on government spending today is or is not the only line in the budget to which national MPs can join, from the point of view of the distribution of their districts and voters. That's why I think the position of our faction, if this bill is supported in the first reading, is essentially to rework it thoroughly for the second reading. If not, then so as not to hide the idea, for the first time again. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u112	Thank you. Self-help faction, Krivenko. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u113	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! How much the Ministry of Economics assures us, and we should put this in the proposal to cancel the inter-ministerial commission. Because all the money in Ukraine was stolen through interfaith commissions. Because then there's no one to ask the prosecutor. It's the right idea for the Ministry of Economics, not the Ministry of Finance, to take away projects because it's engaged in economic development and it should think for more than a year. Next position on this bill. It's been in operation since the 16th. I propose to support it in the first reading (1537), since this is a key requirement. And we've been talking to the World Bank to give us $1 billion 300 million in macro-financial assistance, which is going to be focused on economic development, not food, on real projects. No matter how much we always borrow and then we eat, these costs are the cheapest of all of these costs, they're buried as a structural beacon to get them. We talked to Roman Kachur, Ivaras Abromavichus. This is our coalition government, and we need to trust them and support them. Vote in the first reading on the condition that changes will be made in the absence of a commission, so that the Ministry of Economics will have the responsibility to agree with the Supreme Council on a budget committee and that, in general, it will be approved by Act 1536, which would fully normalize the entire position on the preparation of investment projects. Because today you and I know that 70 working days are necessary to register investment projects. Similarly, in Law 1536, perhaps in the second reading of 1537 the need for acceptance, that is, when needed to receive another document from the State that this project is an investment. So, colleagues, I would like to support it in the first reading, taking into account the comments noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u114	Thank you. The word is given to Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, "Peter Dust Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! Melniczuk, Peter Dustenk's Block. Government investment, of course, is very good. Yet, according to the bill, all programs control and make decisions solely by the Cabinet of Ministers. I think there's already a corruption component. The Cabinet decides who and how much to spend. This, of course, is a temptation. So I would suggest that we send this bill for further work. It's good to think about it, think about the risks of corruption, and then take it into the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u116	Thank you. From the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Mrs. Alexandro Kugel, you have the floor for the speech. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! We've been talking about state investment all day. I want to say that this bill has nothing to do with private investment. What he's settling. What is a binding norm that needs to be voted on in the first reading today. At the request of the World Bank, it is included in the Budget Code that any government cannot provide for the allocation of capital investment funds unless 75 percent is invested in those that have begun. This is the OHMATDIT that needs to be completed, not giving new government officials their programs new direction on capital investments. Secondly, we agreed, there's no more norm to limit the amount of investment in price. They've removed the norm. We're offering 100 million. And besides, we agreed with the Ministry of Economics that they would destroy, there would be no register, you hear, we have a register of investment projects. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u118	I'd like to finish the report for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u119	Well, I'm afraid there's going to be projects on the Mine Economics website. This law should be adopted in the first reading. Yes, it is. And on the first day of the session, vote for the government to get a tranche. Because without this norm, they control the use of budget funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u120	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Victor Valeriusz Halasyuk. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, we have to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. It is very important for our joint government with you to include those budgetary mechanisms that will allow Ukraine to invest, not in food, in stopping budget holes, in investment costs, including from the Japanese government, in total over a billion dollars. This is what it takes to develop the Ukrainian economy, to rebuild its own industry. Of course, very few perfect laws go to first reading. So let's support it, take it as a base, work on the second reading together very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two suggestions were made during the discussion. One is to adopt the bill as a basis. Another is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. We'll do it this way. First, we'll put a proposal for acceptance as a basis. And I'm going to ask all the deputies who have left the hall for unknown reasons and are in the towers to return to their jobs. So if the first sentence doesn't get the right number of votes, then I'm going to put a motion from the committee to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get close to your jobs, to the National Deputies cards. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Capital Investments (Registration No. 1537). I'd like to make up my mind. Please vote. [[5:51:59]] For-152. Regrettably, the proposal did not receive the required number of votes. Then I'll ask us to. National deputies to show respect for both the government and our minister, and so that we can at least now vote by the group for the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for work. So I'm proposing a second proposal, a committee proposal for a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for state capital deposits) (1537) on the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative to work. Please vote. [[17:52:54]] For-200 There are calls from the Hall that not all have been able to vote, and so I'm going to put it back to the vote now, but once again I'm calling on the deputies to come into the Hall, to come to their seats so that we can vote. So I'm voting for a return to the vote. Anyone who supports the return of that vote for the proposal, please vote. [[17:53:46]] For-195 Unfortunately, this proposal did not get the required number of votes, so the bill is rejected. And we're going to consider the next bill. Next is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (No. 1268). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[17:54:29]] For-182 Thank you! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Neciporenko Valentin Mikolayovich, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the end of the day is hard, but I'd like to draw your attention. Before I make the point of the law, I want to remind you of some numbers. To date, almost 100,000 people have been assigned to the National Guard in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and only 6,000 have been assigned to the ATO. Despite this, however, 1 thousand 290 individuals who were identified as ATO candidates did not leave headquarters — that is, they did not participate in hostilities. 73 pretenders--to be an ATO participant were in the zone one day, one day in the ATO zone. The law therefore proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which will provide for criminal liability for illegal refusal or for unlawful granting of ATO status. That is, those who fight and deny them unlawfully are responsible for it, and those who were one day or, as the deputy minister was here, to whom they give unlawfully, the person who has unlawfully given them criminal responsibility. A very short law and a simple one. If there is no objection, in those who have experience in these matters, I would like to propose voting for it as a basis and as a whole. If people who have more experience have an offer to add it, then I ask you in the second reading for a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u124	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u125	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement and law enforcement is considering a project by our colleague Neciporenka, No. 1268. Indeed, the bill proposes to supplement the Criminal Code with articles 358-1 and 364-2. But after considering the bill, members of the committee pointed out that the activities envisaged in the new articles introduced by our colleague proposed 358-1 and, in some cases, should be qualified as or under article 358 already in force and existing in the Criminal Code: falsification of documents, seals, stamps and forms, sale or use of forged documents, seals, stamps, or under article 366 of the Criminal Code. Thus, after discussing the matter, the committee decided to return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. This is also the opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u126	Thank you. By exercising my headship in accordance with the Rules, I continue to hold meetings for 15 minutes. And now we have to figure out, if we're going into discussion, we're not going to consider the next bill anymore. If we don't go in, we can look at it. Tell me, is there a need for discussion? If you need to do that, please write two in favour, two in the opposite. Thank you. It's called Kuprienko from the Radical Party. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u127	Please give the word to the commander of the battalion of the Holy Virgin Mary, Linc Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u128	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u129	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. In fact, the law is very necessary because we were in the public service, which issues these statuses of ATO participants. And we saw the data, they're not classified, but they gave us this data, and we're working with them now. There's a huge number of people who don't deserve this status. And our doctors, who are constantly involved in combat, are only two doctors who have become involved in combat. So we propose to adopt the law as a basis, to complete it, and to adopt it in a second reading. Because we need to step up, and we've talked about this to the head of the public service, to strengthen control. We're going to control this situation and people who are being rejected illegally -- soldiers who don't know what they need to get, it's illegal. If a person has to tear his leg off, they need to be provided with automatic help and the status of an ATO participant. Hence, this law is necessary and needs to be further developed. If there's something wrong, let's work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u130	Thank you. Please give the floor to Nichiporenko Valentina Mikolaiovich, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u131	I just wanted to say that I also think that it should be accepted only as a basis, because they really just came up to me and said, "The law is nice, but there's something to add." That's why I'm offering it as a basis. Thank you. But by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u132	The word is from "Peter Dusty Block" by Deputy Kaplin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u133	We're ready to support this bill, and we need to set an absolute order. We suggest that we take it as a basis and add different standards in the process of processing. Personally, for example, I would like to have every bastard who has obtained the illegal status of an ATO participant bear the most severe responsibility for this act of his own. We must not forgive any idleness that takes advantage of the situation that took place on the front. We must ensure that all necessary penalties are provided by law, under strict law, under the rules of wartime, by those who seek refuge from the law, based on and using the struggle of our boys, our children on the front. In particular, I would like us to discuss and engage in a serious discussion about the responsibilities of military commissioners who turn the decision-making process into business. I think it's up to those who have been on the front, those who have seen trouble, those who have fought for the integrity of our country, those who have been injured, not those who have occupied these places over the last 20 to 25 years, and have been doing business all this time, not protecting the interests of our state and making order in our state. In summary, we support this bill. Convinced that work together will make it irreprehensible and will be punished by anyone who violates the law. Sentenced by law and by military law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u134	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! I will earnestly ask that we return to life in reality. In reality, the Criminal Code provides appropriate articles that can draw on the responsibility of those who have justly or unjustifiably given one status or another. The system from what you predict will not work again. Take it and control it. As national deputies, you have every opportunity to hold these people accountable. Take it and control it. Don't pretend. It's a purely populist legal act that's not worth paying any attention to. We're not in charge right now, we're in the middle of something. The criminal code, in force, provides the corresponding articles. Let's get to work! Control the work of those responsible for granting ATO status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m1.u136	Thank you. The discussion is over. The thoughts in the hall were divided. And we're going to do the same thing as the previous bill. First, we're going to put forward a proposal that was made by the rapporteurs to vote as a basis. If this proposal does not reach the majority, we will make a proposal to the committee to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I ask, for the last strong vote, to return the people's deputies to the Hall, who for some unknown reason left it and prepared for the vote. The draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for unjustified refusal or unlawful granting of the status of a party to hostilities, number 1268, is therefore put to the vote. Please decide how to vote. Please. [[18:04:50]] For-166 This proposal did not get the required number of votes, so I will ask that we take a closer look at the next proposal, the proposal by the committee of profile, and return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. So I am voting on the proposal to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code, No. 1268. Please vote. [[6:05:38]] For 155 The proposal did not get the required number of votes either. The law, the bill is rejected. Our work to this day has come to an end. We have adopted very important laws today. At least the day was hard, but it was a success. I'm adjourning the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
