ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Good morning. We begin the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to yesterday's decision, we are. In accordance with the 10th to 10.30th Rules, there will be speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. At 10:30 a.m., we will begin your consideration of the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the two national deputies of Ukraine. People's deputies please take your seats in the hall and prepare for registration, please. Please prepare for registration, distinguished national MPs. Please, Your Honor, we are preparing to register. In a few minutes, we're going to turn on the "Council" system for registration, please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please register. Please activate the "Council" system for the registration of national deputies, please. [[10:07:54]] Registered -303 At the moment, 303 national deputies are registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Also, before we go to the recording, I would like to welcome, on your behalf, our fellow colleagues, from our own personal birthday colleagues, namely: Vitalia Dmitrovitch Barbienka, let's welcome a colleague with a birthday; Andrija Sergiyovitch Lozov, we welcome a colleague with a birthday; Vadim Vladislavovich Novinski, we welcome to our birthday, and Viktor Josephovich Razwadowski, we welcome a colleague with a birthday. [[Applause]] Dear fellow national deputies, let's move on to the record for the performance. Please sign up for the performance. Colleagues, please. Let's sign up for the performance, please. Let's sign up for the show, please, colleagues. Writing done. Please, Semimen Seminchenko, Self Help. Victor Krivenko, Self-Help, please. Dear colleagues, before we begin our colleague's performance, I ask everyone to take their seats, and half a ton below, please, so that the colleague does not find it difficult to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. We had a week's work in the districts. I want to inform you about two cities. First, it is the city of Dniprodj yinsk, which will soon be renamed Kamyansk, where local authorities have managed to allocate 5 million dollars to the 2 lawn irrigation system. One in front of her, one in front of her, one in front of her. Five million dollars! It's like 15 centimeters from a raspberries, it's just total waste. In that year, 18 million bracelets were allocated only to the construction of a memorial religious cross, which is in a city where nothing works, where there are no lanterns that do not clean the streets. I want the Attorney General's Office to pay attention to this and look at the entire spending system in Dniprodjinski. Because now that this city is actually richer, for example, for the city of Lviv, the budget of the Dniprožinska billion 150 million dollars, the budget of Lviv billion 720 million, but in Lviv three times the population lives. Only in Dniprodijnsk there is no hot water, no colossal environmental problems, and at this time environmental costs are spent on the field system, and now with the efforts of activists these jobs are stopped. I'm talking to the Dniprostrian City Council MPs, and I'm talking to the local authorities to stop and redirect these funds to the right direction. The other one. My fellow deputies and I, as part of the preparations for and major changes to the Amber Law, visited the Sarnicki district. I want everyone to know that for one day, thanks to the arrival of a powerful group of deputies from all the factions, illegal mining has been halted, we've made sure that the total environmental disaster of cities and villages standing on the gold has no roads, no normal infrastructure. And it's very important that the bribe that flourishes today in this area be stopped. Along with fellow MPs Rosenblatt, Paraszuk, Evtushka, Janicki we raised questions about, and who crosses all these things and called us names different, the last name was Janicki, the last name was Smudged, the last name was the mythical Uncle Fedi, who collects money. To understand the daily volume of bribes, it's $200-250 thousand, 300 illegal pumps that have 5-6 people working. I'll be right there. After our visit, we received information that the name has now been changed by some citizen named Nesteruk. I'm stressing the need to adopt not only the Law on amber with changes, so that there is no monopoly on utilities, there is no monopoly on markets, we agreed with the team of authors, but also the adoption of the Law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u3	It's literally 10 minutes. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u4	Let people work legally. People get up and don't tell the camera their last name, and they say we want to officially work, we're willing to pay the money in all the budgets, we're in a situation where our money goes into the pockets of corrupt people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Dubnevich, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Jaroslav Dubnevich, strike group, Petra Poroshenko Block faction, Lvivščina. I have repeatedly had to speak in this room with the call for opportunities to buy decent and cheap light cars for citizens of the border zone and then for Ukraine as a whole. It is well - known that the harsh customs of new and used cars from abroad significantly raise the prices of these products. In modern economic conditions, however, the majority of the Ukrainian population are looking for an opportunity to buy a cheap car. The bill of 1393, registered by me with co-authorship with other national deputies, provided for the creation of conditions under which citizens of the Ukrainian border would be entitled to use cars purchased in Europe for 30 days without payment of customs payments. In addition, we would also get a substantial reduction in customs lines and overcoming corruption in services that are being protected by the border. Unfortunately, the Tax, Customs Committee rejected this issue, some of my colleagues then justified themselves and promised to resolve this issue in a way that would increase the duration to 90 days. A few days ago, we, the deputies, re-registered a new bill, and we came back to that question. Elaborated by the meaning and substance of the provision of temporary import rights for citizens of Ukraine without paying customs fees for the same 30 days. I appeal publicly to all members of the Tax and Customs Committee, asking them to move. I am convinced that this will be the first step towards reducing dragon’s import of used, yet cheap, and, above all, high - quality light vehicles. Our next step will be to set up a single duty rate in the form of a one - time payment. However, such a global change in customs rules will be a long way to go. And ordinary people, in times of economic crisis, need an immediate solution to the issue of legal access to cheap and quality light cars. I am convinced that this time with Bill 2909 on Amendments to Article 380 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the Temporary Import of Vehicles, we need to understand both in the committee and in the session room. Bill 2909 clearly states that for 30 days without customs procedures, a natural person who owns a car and a car with a trailer is clearly given the code numbers. And I ask that my fellow national MPs, both in the committee of profile and in the session room, support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u7	Thank you. National Deputy Zalitschuk, Petra Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u8	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. Parliament has made a mistake that we must recognize and correct. On May 21, we, as deputies with you, voted hand in hand for the list of judges, over 100 people to whom, despite the examination of the Higher Qualifications Commission, despite the examination and meeting of the Legal Committee, despite the fact that the list was publicly posted, two people who were not worthy of the title of judges went to him. First. This is Judge Ruduk, who is still under way, by the way, to conduct a temporary investigative commission for the examination of judges, who, in particular in 2013, imprisoned seven days in a drink under our colleague and our friend, one of the leaders of the Democratic Alliance, Maxim Panov. The second judge is the judge, Judge Juhno, who has banned our colleagues from Freedom from peaceful protests during the events of Eromaydan in 2014. Today, we are addressing the Higher Qualifications Commission, which by law has to check all candidates and make an application to Parliament. And please provide information, first of all, on the motives of the Higher Qualifications Commission when it submitted to the judges mentioned above. The other one. We're also initiating disciplinary proceedings against judges Ruduk and Juhno before the Higher Qualifications Commission, and we're demanding that the WCC conduct a background check on the judges and their judicial records and take a decision, take action on responsibility. In parallel, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that we are preparing a complaint against the CDC and the High Council of Justice regarding the opening of disciplinary conduct and the application of sanctions in the form of discharge in connection with the inadequacy of the position taken. I also want to take this opportunity to contact the press and I want to address the public when we adopt important decisions about public office, please send us the information you possess so that the former supporters of the regime do not return to their posts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Colleagues and the Ukrainian People, the Fatherland faction of the sitting constantly raises a very urgent question concerning social justice. As far as the Ukrainian state is concerned, there has been an extremely difficult socio-economic situation today. And Ukrainian citizens are on the verge of survival. We have put forward a number of bills that must at least correct this situation. Unfortunately, these bills are not considered in the Supreme Council Hall but are not included in the agenda. I would like to say today which parliamentary bills should be decided as soon as possible, as soon as possible. First of all, this is Bill 2883 on amending the state budget for the restoration of citizens' monetary income indices. What is the problem? The State Budget Act 2014 and 2015 stipulates that the issue of wage indexation, pensions, scholarships and state aids is being implemented according to a special order approved by the government. For the second year in a row, the government has been evading its decision to determine this special order, and the matter must be done by the Ukrainian Parliament. What do we propose? This project, submitted by the "Fatherland" faction, predicts that if the inflation index exceeds 1 percent, the following month after which this index is published, indexation is done. For example, if the inflation index was 14 percent in April 2014, it should be printed in May, the percentage should be indexed from June. Someone has come up with what every budget institution should do on its own, but in fact, if they do it on their own, that leads to corruption, not real indexation. The next bill, which needs to be included and considered, is a bill to restore the full amount of pension insurance for working pensioners, Bill No. 2698. We're going to have to put these two bills into the agenda today and consider them this week and correct social injustice. But at the same time, the "Paternity" faction has also introduced five other drafts that provide for the resolution of pension insurance issues, which provide for the implementation of the necessary indexation, which will eventually provide for the establishment of the necessary sets of non-food commodities to determine the subsistence minimum, since 2000, we have not reviewed these sets, and Parliament must give the government the necessary instructions. I urge my colleagues to vote on these issues for inclusion in the agenda and to correct what we owe to the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u11	Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u12	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, today without any exaggeration, is a key day for Parliament's eighth call, for Parliament elected after the Dignity Revolution, for Parliament, in which there is a constitutional majority of the pro-Ukrainian forces on paper. And, you know, it's already a disgraceful situation, which would seem to be an elementary issue, like removing the MP's immunity from one of Yanukovic's most obnoxious criminal regime actors, going so hard, so big by some kind of crash, and it's so slowing down. And, you know, there are these obvious associations that seem to be nothing more than a certain conspiracy of elites, like a certain silent non-aggression pact, that no one is actually going to plant anyone, that no one is going to judge anyone for the terrible crimes of Janukovich's time, that's a circular message, and that's an attempt to explain these questions. You know, the situation that happens on the regulatory committee doesn't stand any criticism at all, because it seems to be obvious things. Eight out of ten on the regulatory committee are coalition representatives, but it's so hard to make an elementary decision. Why, then, do our listeners feel this way? Is it not because there is still no head in the regulatory committee? We remember very well how at the beginning of this call there was a proposal, by the way, from all factions and coalitions, there were representatives of all factions and coalitions, as well as non-fractional deputies who proposed to this office to choose Yuri Lewchenk from Freedom. But then the question was blocked, and then there was no desire to do so. If Levchenko were the head of the regulatory committee, that decision would have been immediately made without any difficulty, and he probably would not have said that he had a conflict of interest. What might be the conflict of interest in the governing committee’s head? What's the big deal? I just can't understand it. So, honourable colleagues and honourable Ukrainians, I think, and this is the position of our political power, which is a phenomenon such as the inviolability of any, parliamentary, judicial, presidential, it should go into the past. This is a phenomenon that causes total dissension in Ukrainian society. One of the key requirements of the Dignity Revolution was the equality of all, without exception, before the law and today in Parliament we must show it. I am convinced that this is the vote, which will be the key to how this Parliament will be taken. If the Supreme Council does not vote for the Clovis today, it will mean that this Parliament is losing legitimacy and this Parliament has no political future. So today every national MP has to feel this responsibility and take that step, the choice that will really say that we are doing what we promised on Maidan, and not today we are doing underground arrangements with former members of the Yanukovich regime. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u13	People's MP Dunaev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u14	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected journalists, respected people's deputies! The purpose of my statement is to resolve an armed conflict in eastern Ukraine. Conflicts that have already killed at least 6,000 417 people, including 626 women and children, according to UN data. In this conflict, Ukrainian citizens in the ATO area are killed and suffered. These are citizens of our country whose rights are being violated every day, our citizens who have been deprived of their means of subsistence, Ukrainian citizens, who, according to the perceptive statements of some politicians, have been offered a complete economic blockade. Regrettably, since the signing of the Minsk Agreements, the Supreme Council has not been actively involved in the management of the conflict. The Supreme Council, which should represent the whole country, including the temporarily uncontrolled territory of Ukraine. The time has come to establish a Committee on Integrated Decisions of the Donetsk and Luhansk Region, whose tasks will be parliamentary control over the implementation of the Minsk Agreements, systematic analysis of the situation in the region, the development of a legislative recovery strategy and the interaction of all branches of government. And these are just the key directions. We need to address the rehabilitation of social infrastructure, destroyed housing, industries, environmental and energy security in the region. In the Luhansk region, there is a continuous power outage, which not only affects residents but also industrial facilities, can lead to technological and environmental impacts. There is a problem of smuggling, backdrops for the passage of goods into Ukraine's temporarily uncontrolled territory. The Executive does not want to see these problems and is addressing them adequately. Unfortunately, most parliamentarians are unaware of the real problems of the destroyed Donbass, only from the media. I thank all journalists and MPs who visited the destroyed Donbass and visited the line of separation of fire, talked to their residents, looked them in the eye, realized that people were tired of living in fear and chaos, lawlessness, and that the solution to the conflict depends on us, the supreme legislature of a single country. We need to consolidate the Minsk Peace Agreements at the legislative level, and we must understand that the responsibility for their implementation lies not only with the President and with the Government, but also with us. Against the backdrop of the efforts of the entire world community to resolve the entire armed conflict, Parliament's inaction seems irresponsible. The Opposition Unit requires the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee on Donbass, in which all parliamentary groups and factions must participate without exception; to include in the tripartite contact group on the implementation of the Minsk Agreements the people's deputies of Ukraine and representatives of the Donbass Committee; and to ensure close interaction among all actors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u15	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u16	To ensure close interaction among all actors of legislative initiatives by the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers for the rapid and effective implementation of the Minsk Agreements. Ukraine needs peace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u17	Please, national deputy Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u18	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Last week, we were with you, distinguished national deputies, working in the districts. And I'm actually a representative of 156 constituency, where there's this kind of resource and this kind of mineral, like amber. I mean, a number of drafts that are under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are waiting for their time. But last week, we're with fellow MPs, representatives of the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, headed by Yegor Sobolev, were in the 156th district. They were talking about illegal manufacturing, talking about what was going on. And against the backdrop of that, when the government is looking for funds, they're asking the International Monetary Fund to provide certain social guarantees, we're losing huge resources, because in just one era, millions of dollars are being exported from Ukraine, perhaps even tens of millions of dollars. What I'm saying is that as soon as my colleagues and I went to Polissa, we talked about the level of corruption in this hidden area, the next day we were immediately replaced by "lookers." This suggests that there is a very high level of corruption in the system of government. I propose to change philosophy. When we talk about what you give, our distinguished international partners, our money, with resources like amber, with resources like others: granite and granite and grandiorites, forests, I propose to legitimize the production. Maybe we need to put more emphasis on that, and I want to ask the honourable chief to get us a quick review of the law on guardianship, which clearly fixes or even legitimizes what is now in our state. It's de facto. But de jure, we have to make sure that the custody activity is legal, and we're able to get a colossal resource in the income part of our nation. Dear National Deputies! More recently, we also talked about this topic in the district council walls. One of the regional media journalists called on everyone: Let us take national action to address this critical problem. I also address you, distinguished journalists. This problem needs to be resonated. Then only the level of corruption will decline. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u19	Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u20	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Honourable Deputies, People of Ukraine! If we are to build a European State that respects the law, we must put the economic situation on our borders in order. Despite the months since Maidan’s defeat, smuggling has been quiet for several months, it is now continuing and flourishing in a rich color. Last week, an Atlantic Mariner vessel arrived in Ishmael from the port of Feodosia, from the occupied Crimea. It has been detained by honest staff members of the BSS, and such are, believe me, they do. It contained 5,000,800 tons of diesel fuel, which was planned to be transported to Ukraine without a place to be smuggled. The budget would have been damaged by 23 million bracelets. These are the same money that is lacking for medical reform, for social protection, for compensation for gas tariffs. After it was detained, calls were made from a deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, whose name I named in my requests to the Attorney-General, requesting that the ship be released. On Friday at 9.30 a.m., Tatyana Chernobyl and I set up a press conference at UNAN on this issue. Apparently, our phones are being tapped by the Ukrainian Security Service. And that same night the ship took off and was released. Although he must be arrested by law. The cargo must be confiscated. A criminal case under article 332-1 of the Criminal Code had to be brought against the captain for violating the Ukrainian border, since the ship, like hundreds of others, entered the Crimea without asking the permission of the legitimate authorities. Do you know how many ships entered the Crimea were then detained and formed and confiscated in Ukraine? So far, I've got one, and more than 100 are coming in. Why is this happening? Because someone does not seem to want to build a European Ukraine for the entire people of Ukraine. Someone wants to build a Europe all to themselves. Therefore, the position of the People's Front faction is a categorical cruel fight against smuggling. We request the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, to conduct an investigation into this incident, on the basis of which ships from Crimea continue to enter Ukraine, in violation of Ukrainian border rules, and are not detained or released. And who gets the money out of it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u21	Please, John Sporish. Oleg Barn, Petra Poshenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u22	Dear Ukrainian people and deputies! The people were tired of waiting and waiting, and the people were tired of waiting for justice. The people are now facing a number of arrests, and the people are awaiting raids on these criminal games, which are already on the way to the appropriate places where they should be held accountable. Either we begin to destroy the criminal system together, or this system will destroy Ukraine. And it is the memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 and the fallen ATO that we must be honest with our people, honest and equal with them. Therefore, each official, regardless of the position, rank, or thickness of the wallet, must answer to the law. I want to turn to law enforcement, stop playing tricks on criminals, the people won't wait, or the people will take up arms, and they'll start making order if you don't move them in jail. Then there will be situations that have taken place before, and then the people will take over those who have covered them. And last but not least, I want to tell those members of the previous regime, you representatives of the regional gang should be in jail for stealing the country along with the Yanukovic regime. You, the jackals of Yanukovich, should sit on your hands for the blood of Midan. And you, like roadies, have to sit down for causing a war, an ATO for which thousands of Ukrainian patriots have died. And believe me. Shut your mouth or the people will knock your teeth out. You've done your part, the people will no longer tolerate you or any other corrupt authority, and they will do whatever the thief can, regardless of the rank, sit in prison, and you will now repent and pray to God that the people will not do Lynch's judgment with you if they do not. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u23	People's Deputy Shipko, Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u24	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze-Nicopolsky district, MP's Rebirth Group. Dear national MPs, dear voters! It's a medical disaster, and it's still there. MoH reforms will damage the systems. There are no vaccines for more than six months. Those aren't my words. They're headlines in the media. That's the voice of our people. The whole country was waiting for positive changes in health care, and we too were waiting for you to change for the better, for health care to become more accessible. In the last five months, however, I stress that no law on the development of the health system has been passed by the Ministry to the Supreme Council. At the same time, it is already registered, not by the Ministry, but by the National Deputies, the drafts of the new editorial on medical devices, passed by the Bill (1332) on the increase in the pay of medical workers, on domestic aid, totalling 115 bills. On the 18th of May, the MoH was able to submit three drafts for public discussion. Colleagues, have you seen these documents where the minister has been ploughing for a week? And what is this panacea? And the Panacea refers to the transfer of hospitals to utility facilities. That's it. I want to explain how this will work. You need to take the law first. And if he's very lucky, he'll be in September. Secondly, the decision of the local communities is needed, which means the local MPs change the status of the medical establishment. And here's the problem. Indeed, the ministry forgot about the elections that will take place in the fall. Who took into account the possibility of delaying the electoral process? And where is the guarantee that by January 1st, the sessions will be held and the issue will be brought up. As a result of January 1, 2016, thousands and hundreds of our medical facilities will run out of government funding. We're gonna start a real camper. And who will be responsible for this? Isn't that the problem now? And the problem is that medicine is not available to people at all. Drugs are too expensive. People don't even go to hospitals because they can't pay for treatment. What should we do? State programs to compensate for the cost of drugs by major groups of diseases — diabetes, heart vessels, and oncology — are urgently needed. Clear rules for pharmaceuticals and serious legislative changes. Where are they? Dear national deputies, incompetence is even worse than incompetence. The draft Decision on the release of Alexander Kvetashvili from office of Minister of Health is registered in the Supreme Council. And I appeal to you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, on the eve of Medical Officer's Day to take this decision to the Supreme Council for a real national assessment. The MP's Rebirth for a real recovery of medicine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u25	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, the time set by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Work has been completed, and we are moving on to the agenda. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Your consideration is on the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Kljeva Sergija Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that on May 12th, the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part two of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, part two of article 482 KPC of Ukraine, article 218 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is addressed to review the submission of consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Petrovich Klev. This feed is given to you accordingly. This report, in particular, states that the Attorney General of Ukraine is asking us to consider this submission and to give consent to attracting Ukrainian national deputy Kljeva Sergey Petrovich to criminal responsibility. I would also like to inform you that, according to the legislation, I was sent to the regulatory committee. The results of the regulatory committee are responsible for the decision that has been sent, distributed and distributed to you, particularly with regard to the consideration of this issue at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Accordingly, honourable fellow Members, there is an appropriate procedure for dealing with the matter. That is, we have to take the time, give the word to the Attorney General of Ukraine to answer the questions, and we'll take 10 minutes to do so. And then we're going to take 10 minutes of the national MP who's been put in the presentation for his speech and his argument. In case a national MP is absent from the session room, legislation allows the submission to be considered without explanation. The next report will be to the Main Committee in three minutes. We will continue to discuss this issue in accordance with the 30th article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which includes statements by factions and groups, will be given up to three minutes, as well as statements by the national deputies up to 15 minutes, and this will mean that three minutes each speaker. We will continue to consider this issue after the conclusion of the procedure of discussion and consideration, to the appropriate vote, which is provided for by valid legislation. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the Acting Prosecutor - General of Ukraine, Vladimir Pavlovich Guzier. Please, Vladimir Pavlovich, within 10 minutes of the presentation and appropriate questions, please, Vladimir Pavlovich. I ask you, Your Honor, to prepare a record of the questions for the duty of Attorney General of Ukraine, please sign in for 10 minutes. Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u26	Thank you, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council! I support the procedural submission filed by the Attorney General of Ukraine on May 12th, and I am ready to answer the questions raised by this submission to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u27	I remind you that questions and answers are provided to the prosecutor - general’s responsibility for 10 minutes. Please, National Deputy Victoria Bird's Self-Help. I'd like you to concentrate on your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I wanted to ask you this question. We see that an application sent by the Attorney General's Office in accordance with Mr. Cloev provides for an agreement to be brought to criminal responsibility. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Rules, the Status of the People's Deputy and the Constitutional Court's decision, which clarified the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the consent of the Supreme Council is required separately to bring criminal responsibility, separate consent to arrest, and individual consent to detention. I want to ask you a question. Does this mean that the Attorney General’s Office does not see the reasons for Mr. Clovis’ arrest and detention and accordingly believes that this person will not escape the investigation and will fully contribute to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u29	Thank you. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Law on the Rules really provides for the referral of the Attorney General to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This procedure has been notified to you that it was, in my view, fully tolerated. I underline once again that the submission is signed not by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, in accordance with the law and including those normative acts that you mentioned, is signed by the procedural director, but agrees with the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Attorney-General of Ukraine directs this submission to the Supreme Council. This procedure has been carried out, it has been recognized as legal, and what it sees to be an investigation is whether there are grounds for choosing a stiffer or less severe course of action.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u30	Five seconds, complete, please. Please comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u31	will be determined by the investigator who will make the decision in the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u32	Please, National Deputy Bublik Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u34	Yuri Lewchenko, please. Please follow the Rules, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u35	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Master, acting as Attorney General, may be disrespectful, depending on your answers. You've just ignored a question from a fellow bird doctor. According to Mr. Melniczuk, you filed for detention and arrest. And Clovis doesn't have private planes, he won't run away from Ukraine tomorrow, or what? Is it possible that he will not bribe, so - called, law enforcement authorities, who similarly let him go? What the fuck is this? The Janukovič Bandit was one of the main, organized the "tats", financed the "anti-maidan", where the Interigria was written. By the way, you don't have any of these episodes in your file, you're only doing it on credit to the bank. But in detention, you don't put him under arrest. Then he'll run away tomorrow. So it's an ossification and just-just a lie to the Ukrainian society. You're doing the piano now, we're voting it all out, and he's running tomorrow! What's going on in the first place?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u36	I'm informing you, Your Honor. Criminal conduct has been investigated by the Attorney General’s Office, including those related to the owners, the objects that you have highlighted. To date, the Attorney General of Ukraine has asked before the hall the question of consent to attract Sergio Petrovich Klav as the national deputy for the episode, I stress once again, after the episode of the investigation. Which is where the investigation is ready to announce the suspicion. I don't want you to take my back like that, so I don't want you to look at the circumstances that you're talking about. I'm sure that these circumstances will be given an objective criminal justice evaluation with appropriate legal consequences, perhaps part of the measure of precaution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u37	Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u38	Good afternoon! Dear reporter, please give an answer in essence to why three submissions have been submitted to the People's Deputies of Melniczuk: to be held accountable, detained and arrested, and to the People's Deputy of Clovis only to be held criminally responsible? And we don't need to quote articles of law here and so forth. Give a clear answer in essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u39	Okay! I will. Okay, I'm going to try to give you the answer that I gave on the committee, at the four meetings of the Committee of Rules, to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council. In the process, although this is not a question for Mr. Melniczuk right now, I have to give you an answer to understand the situation. In the course of the criminal investigation, where Mr. Melniczuk is present and sufficient evidence has been obtained to refer to the Supreme Council for criminal prosecution, detention, reporting, and arrest. One of the episodes is evidence that if one of the episodes is spoken, we will speak of illegal activity related to the life and health of an officer of the Idar battalion. to the members. To date, seven persons are drawn to criminal responsibility and five are in custody. There were reports that when this officer was delivered.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u40	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u41	Melniczuka, he asked, "Why did you do this? You'd better take his life," is an "A." "B." In the Idar battalion today, the investigation revealed a shortage of more than a thousand machine guns. In this context, the characterization of a person, the gravity of the signs of criminal action, as provided for in article 257, gave all legitimate grounds for asking questions of arrest. He's been pecking. His actions show signs of a criminal offence envisaged in article 190, it's "Scheme" and 191 in part four. Part five, I'm sorry, part five, is "The Disappointment of State Funds in Particularly Large Sizes".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of the Office of the Attorney General’s Office for the removal of the intactness and the criminalization of members of the People’s Deputies, Clovis and Melniczuk. But at the same time, we have a question for the Attorney General's Office. The whole country knows that Kluviv helped Yanukovitch "account" for dirty money, including 34 million dollars paid for an apartment 100 meters away from the Supreme Council. The whole country knows that he and Crawler, the former head of the DUS, have legalized the border. The whole country knows that the Claves, along with Yanukovitch, are involved in the Mayan crimes, in the shootings of the Celestial 100. The whole country knows that Kluvov helped build the Yanukovich dictatorship along with many of those sitting in the Supreme Council Hall today and covering up the parliamentary integrity. I have a question. Why don't you hold them responsible for killing, shooting, robbing the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u44	Report, Oleg Valeriovich. I'm going to say again on this point that the investigation of all these facts is going on quite intensely. I'd like to officially inform the National People's Deputies that the Office of the Attorney-General's Office has created a special investigation unit that has been broken down by specialization: the death of our heroes in Maidan is illegal, and, if I may say, the criminal activity of senior officials, security officers, internal affairs personnel, and, believe me, I'm confident that it will find its proper assessment. So I don't think this is the last submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u45	Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Logwinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u47	The national deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u48	Good afternoon, Mr. First Deputy Attorney General. I have a question for you. We all have the impression that you're hiding something, because no document other than the power information for the Procedural Code will give you any idea why you're drawing people to responsibility. Tell me, please, why do we have to pull out what he did now? What are you drawing him to account for? Because we have examples with other people when you file documents with the European Union and then they remove sanctions because they don't contain a criminal element. That's why I have a question: why? The requirement to provide clear information on each of the grounds of criminal conduct, which is the essence of submission. And I also have a question: tell me, whether you're bald, whether you're being held accountable to the office of the prosecutor, who is currently in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u49	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u50	who failed to act accordingly, in what way did the European Union withdraw sanctions from the people of Yanukovich’s day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I ask you before you report. The national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Kluv, appealed to give him a 15 - minute rule. And since there are rights and equal opportunities, I add five minutes to the responsibility of the Attorney General. And so it's going to be parity. Please add 5 minutes and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yes, really, you can see that I'm going to be trying to literally answer Sergei's accusations in three minutes. There is no charge as to what evidence has been obtained in the case of the national deputy Clovis. And this evidence shows that during 2007, the brothers of Kluvi, who owned the Austrian company, were deceiving and exploiting trust, acquired the shares of an open stock company called the Semiconductors' Plant. This happened in 2007. Then a number of financial tools were created under this structure, which made the structure insolvent; the factory is meant to have received 250 million euros from the state bank of credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u54	and interest was paid off, which is about 200 million dollars, from protected budget articles as a result of manipulations by appropriate cabinet structures. And we know that Andrew Petrovich was then the First Vice Prime Minister. That's why we're talking about 190 articles of Chess and 191st is "Encouragement of Budget." That is the basis for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u56	Please give it to Levus Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u57	Andrew Levus, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u58	Vladimir Pavlovich, it is very good that you, after all, have the courage of the Attorney General's Office to submit to one representative of the occupying bloc who is in parliament and should be in prison. But there is, of course, a question about the quality of this presentation. I have another question. You know, sometimes when you read these submissions, it's a question of what the Attorney General's Office is doing to make these bandits of the occupying bloc really avoid their responsibility, that's up to the quality of these charges. As for other things. I would like to point out that for about a few months now, we have submitted to the Attorney General's Office allegations of criminal offences against a number of national MPs, including Boyka, we'll mention these excesses and crimes, we'll mention Mikola Skorak, who drowned in the blood of Odessa Euromaidan, Kiwalova, who called for the writing of the Odessa constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u59	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u60	I want to believe that you will have the courage to avoid these questions and to do everything possible to keep these criminals in prison, not in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u61	We've had enough courage, we'd like to get more trust in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u62	Please, Semimen Seminchenko, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u63	The question is next. Please tell me, on the basis that Melniczuk is far more dangerous to you than the practically innocent Kluev, the question is: Are you prepared to say all this to the families who died in Sky Satan in your eyes, are you prepared to tell all those people who in 24 years could not build a normal life in this country, because 24 years such as Kluev and the company you let go have all the juices from Ukraine. Please tell me, are you ready to say all this in front of these people?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u64	I don't think I'm hiding my eyes right now, and I hope they see me, and the heroes see me, and the relatives of the fallen Satan. I don't want to humiliate Mr. Melniczuk's heroic past completely in this case. I have said this on the committee and I reaffirm it once again, but unfortunately, the facts tell us that there is the most violent reincarnation of this person. That's what I'm saying to the whole room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, last question, Andrew Teteruk. Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Pavlovich, the political will in our Parliament to bring criminal responsibility to all those who break the law, all those who steal money from the budget enough, there are voices. But we have a rather strange position today from the Attorney General's Office, which is so prepared by documents, that in the end the case is solved for lack of evidence. For example, I mean sending documents to the European Union about imposing sanctions, for bad preparation, they were rejected. Today, we are discussing two questions about the criminalization of two national deputies, full of questions to the Attorney General's Office. Are the officials of the Attorney General’s Office ready to take responsibility for the inadequacy of the preparation of the materials that are being sent to the Ukrainian Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u67	Thank you. I think I do. Of course, there are some editorial flaws, we've talked about it on the committee, I admit, maybe there's a wish to see some more political subtext that I've heard about. But believe me, there will be a series of questions that will be discussed and taken into account when the trial is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Question - and - answer time is running out. Thank you, Vladimir Pavlovich. I ask you to take a seat in the House of Parliament. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Petrovich Kljeva. 15 minutes. Please explain the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u69	Dear People's Deputies, you have to take a decision on the submission by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of consent to criminalize me. It is my responsibility to state that I am not involved in any of the crimes that I have been charged with by the Attorney General's Office. I and my companies have been working in the real economy since the early 1990s, creating jobs. Under unprecedented political pressures, however, it is difficult to count on an independent objective view. All of you have witnessed how my political opponents have been subjected to psychological pressure on members of the regulatory committee and of the people's deputies who have had the courage to objectively assess the presentation and to comply with the requirements of the law, declaring the prosecution of the Attorney-General unfounded. What, then, is the subject of an objective investigation and judicial review? I have repeatedly stated that the current Attorney-General covers the actions of his predecessor, Nehniski, who, in order to show society the visibility of the fight against corruption, has in due course deceived the EU's official bodies by informing them of my alleged involvement in the crimes that have been committed, which is the basis for imposing sanctions on me and my family. For more than a year, investigators from the Attorney General's Office have tried to find anything that would indicate my involvement in any crime. Throughout this time, I have been questioned, six times, answering all the questions of investigators who have not identified any evidence of my guilt in carrying out their work. Instead of taking sides in compliance with the law and openly stating it, the Public Prosecutor's Office, by resorting to political pressure, introduces this submission, ignoring material that shows my involuntaryness to any crimes. In line with the article. With article 218, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council's Rules, the Prosecutor must make a submission that must be motivated, sufficient to contain specific facts and evidence to support the commission of a public dangerous act by the person referred to in the submission. The Prosecutor should have made it clear what acts were illegal, what their wrongfulness was, what my role in that, when my time was, was the place to do them, rather than being limited to general phrases such as “undetermined place” and “undetermined way”. The Regulatory Committee has strictly complied with the requirement of article 220, part one, of the Rules Act, namely, to establish the sufficiency, legality and justification of submission, the legality of obtaining the evidence referred to in the submission, having examined the material by holding two preparatory, two substantive and one closed meetings. I am grateful to all members of the media for their objective efforts to report directly on what took place at the meetings and what evidence was provided. Thank you. Further, after the regulatory committee had requested the Attorney-General to present the reasons for the submission and to answer the Committee's questions, we know that the Attorney-General has failed to comply with this legitimate requirement. In particular, the prosecutor has not provided any justification or evidence to prove my innocence, guilt, excuse me. And he gave only 11 vague answers to 82 questions raised by members of the Committee. This position of the Attorney-General was due, not to a secret investigation, as was attempted, but to a lack of evidence. As a result, on 29 May, the regulatory committee ruled that the submission of the Attorney General was insufficiently substantiated and the evidence provided was insufficient. That it was not possible to conclude on the legality of obtaining evidence, since the necessary material had not been provided by the Prosecutor, which would have been confirmed either in public or in private, and, by the way, had been unanimously voted in favour of the decision. Therefore, pursuant to article 220, part four, of the Rules, by the decision of the Committee of 29 May, the representation of the Attorney General was returned to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and was to be returned, together with the conclusion of the Committee, to the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine. According to articles 220 and 221 of the Rules of Procedure Act, the Supreme Council is not entitled to re-examine the submission and to give a new, other opinion to the Sectoral Committee. A violation of those provisions of articles 220 and 221 of the Regulation Act on 2 June, the Head of the Supreme Council issued a mandate to reconsider the Committee's decision of 29 May, with specific requirements for different opinions. In particular, the consent of the Committee to be held criminally accountable for voting at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, which is a direct pressure on the Committee. Next, you have witnessed another political farce and psychological pressure on the members of the regulatory committee by the respected people who sit in the Presidency, including the leaders of the majority MP factions, as well as others, which is a direct violation of the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. As a result, on 2 June the Committee, in violation of the provisions of articles 218, 220, without repealing the earlier decision and without consideration on the merits, decided another decision to be referred to the Head of the Supreme Council for consideration by the Supreme Council. However, even in this decision of 2 June, the members of the Committee referred again to Part 4, article 220 of the Rules, which ascribes to the Head of the Supreme Council to return it to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the second time. Thus, in spite of all political pressure, the Committee, in its decision of 2 June, recalling article 220, part 4, of the Rules, reiterates this submission by the procurator to an unmistakable, unwarranted and without evidence which confirms my involvement in any crimes. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! You are the first in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, the Head of the Supreme Council, who, after receiving two negative conclusions from a special committee, still raises the issue of removing integrity in the room rather than creating illegal practices. On what is this conclusion of the Prosecutor based? The submission (page 7) of my alleged involvement in the offences confirms the testimony of a number of witnesses. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of the witnesses mentioned by the prosecutor indicate that I allegedly took possession of the Semiconductors' and Silicone's Department illegally seven years ago. This, by the way, has nothing to do with the person, credit or budget compensation. And these prosecution witnesses are only representatives of Silicone, i.e. stakeholders, participants in a corporate conflict. Until now, however, they have never filed a claim for property before a court of law. I will note that these persons are in another criminal proceeding to bring Silicone to bankruptcy in order not to repay the Bank's World Bank loan, but subsequently to the subsidiary of Activ Solar in the amount of $22 million. The main proceedings started in 2013 and since the leader of this company Activ Solar is my son-in-law, their testimony against me is nothing more than an attempt to avoid criminal responsibility, liability, and the intention to seize someone else's property. Thus, there is a situation that the owners and management of Silicone involve the Attorney General's Office in the implementation of their raid scheme, and the Public Prosecutor's Office, in turn, tries to involve the Supreme Council. I would like to point out, however, that the rest of the witnesses referred to by the Office of the Prosecutor-General show that I am not involved. In addition to the above testimonies, Genprocuror refers to a number of regulations and treaties in support of his submission, and they are listed on pages 7-8 of the submission. I would like to mention one very important fact, literally, two more minutes. None of the State bodies, decisions or treaties referred to by the Attorney-General have been found null and void. That is, all these acts, documents, are legal, valid and subject to mandatory implementation even now. How can I conclude that I am involved in an offence, citing this to those involved. Legal regulations, regulations in force by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the treaty? This is ridiculous. There is no other evidence by the Attorney-General to indicate that there is a crime in my actions. On the contrary, I have provided the members of the regulatory committee with a large number of evidence of my non-participation. In particular, I handed over to the Committee the audit material relating to the submission made in 2014 by the State Fiscal Service, the State Financial Inspectorate, the State Property Fund on behalf of the investigator. No violations of existing legislation have been established. Dear colleagues, many of you are legal professionals and familiar with the criminal process. How can I conclude that my involvement is, if, the first one, there is no treaty or decision in relation to the Semiconductor Plant or the Silicon GS or other related enterprises that would be concluded and signed either by me or by my brother. Neither I nor my brother had any influence or influence on the conclusion or implementation of existing treaties. No civil legal transaction in respect of the stock of the plant, as well as the credit agreement and the master's contract, was found to be null and void. That is, all these treaties are valid and legal to date. No decision by any State body to provide for the administration or redistribution of budgetary resources has been annulled or declared unlawful under the established law. All decisions on this issue have been taken in full compliance with the law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the consequence does not determine the damage itself and the extent of the alleged damage to the State budget or other persons, which would be determined and confirmed by the findings of the experts, as required by the law. Thus, there is no evidence of my involvement in any of the crimes, even the opposite: there are conclusions and results from many of the organizations that speak of the legality of all treaties, decisions and actions. The events were also evaluated by international experts under the leadership of the Fifth Director of the FBI, Luis Free, as well as by foreign judicial bodies, in particular the High Court of Vienna (Austria), which addressed all issues that the Office of the Prosecutor has provided and acknowledged insufficient evidence. In spite of all the foregoing, the Attorney-General of Ukraine has made an unwarranted and evidence-free submission based solely on the principle of political feasibility. I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not call you to my side, to my protection, I ask you to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the law of the Rules and not to allow bad practices in Parliament when criminal proceedings are not based on the rule of law and law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u71	a Political expediency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Sergey Petrovich Kluva's explanation was heard with you. Now, according to procedure, please take your place, Sergey Petrovich. The report of the Main Committee is in accordance with procedure. Please be the first deputy to the Paul Pinzenik Regulatory Committee. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u73	Dear Head, honourable deputies. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since May 13, 13th, the Committee at its meetings, held on 15, 20, 27, 28, 29 May, discussed the question of the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Mr. Šokin, Mr. Viktor Mikolaiovich of May 12, 2015 of consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kljeva Sergija Petrovic, the reply of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine to the Committee, the explanation and concern of the people's MP, Mr. Klav. The report suggests that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consent to the involvement of Deputy Klev in criminal liability with the signs of criminal offences foreseen in part four of article 190, “Sacrifice”, part five, “Affordation or possession of property by means of abuse of office”, part two, of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, “Ussion of power or official status”. According to part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the committee entrusted with reaching a conclusion on the matter determines the adequacy, legality and validity of the submission, the legality of the receipt of the evidence in the application, and the availability of the relevant complaints. In this regard, the committee held six meetings. Yes, the May 20th Committee approved the list of issues just 82 required to prepare the committee’s conclusions. And the committee asked the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on criminal conduct related to the national deputy of Clovis. In an answer that came to the committee on May 27th, the Attorney General of 82 questions answered 11. He noted that information on the answer to the rest of the questions could not be disclosed at this time in accordance with the requirements of criminal law. At the meeting of the Committee on May 27 and May 28, it was decided how to deal with the matter. And on May 28th, there was an open meeting of the Committee, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Senior Prosecutor of the Department of the Attorney General of Bagnyuk, the People’s Deputy of Kljeva, and other invited persons. There's been a live broadcast on the "Race" channel. On May 29, the Committee held a closed meeting to examine the evidence provided by the Attorney General. And on the same day, an open meeting was held with the participation of all the individuals mentioned above. And it was decided by a committee in which the committee acknowledged that the application was in accordance with the requirements of the law and also pointed out the lack of and incomplete justification for the submission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. This decision was reviewed by a committee on June 2, when the committee met with the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at a plenary meeting. As a result, the committee reviewed its decision and endorsed the following conclusion. First, to adopt the committee's conclusion on the application of consent to criminal liability on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u74	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u75	To endorse the Committee's conclusion on the application of consent to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Clovis Sergey Petrovich, in which the Committee considers that the legality of the application is in conformity with the requirements of the law. In particular, articles 218 of the Rules, articles 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The other one. In accordance with part four of article 220 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the conclusion of the Committee on Submission, supported and introduced by the Attorney-General, has been sent to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, after a report by the committee head according to the procedure, we are starting to discuss this issue, which includes statements from factions and groups, and will also be allocated up to 15 minutes for statements by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please ask the leaders, the factions and the groups to sign up. Rules 3 minutes for each faction and group. Please. Please, "Radical Party", Andrew Lozova. Continue to prepare Mustafa Najem, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u77	Andrew Lozova, "Radical Party" Laszka. In fact, there's nothing to discuss here, because any conscious person in the Council understands that those who plundered more than 20 years of the country, those who crawled into the pockets of every Ukrainian family, those who built tyranny, which ended in mass bloodshed, which ended in a humanitarian disaster on Donbassa, all of them must be responsible for all the crimes. And as for the entire gang of Yanukovich, it is not the presumption of innocence that works, but the presumption of guilt, let them prove that they are not guilty. Because now they're all white and plump, they're all pouring crocodile tears, they're talking about democracy, they're talking about European principles. And think of the principles by which they shot the Celestial 100, by what principles they led Ukraine — a very rich country — to the poverty of millions of people. You know yesterday and today in the hall it sometimes got very quiet and there were heard rustling envelopes. And I know that a lot of members of the various factions have been offered and offered money so they wouldn't vote for it, for Clovis, for Melniczuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I wanted to remind you that the 30 pieces of silver taken by Judah were thrown into the cemetery, and no one wanted to take that money. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u78	You know this statement needs, I think I'm going to take a closer look. I ask you to consider this speech by the Ukrainian National MP as my official request to investigate in the presence of the Attorney General’s duty to bribe Ukrainian national deputies. And if it had room. If that's not enough room in Parliament, any bribe, I'll ask the Attorney General's Office to file. Make a donation. make a motion to remove the touch from whoever did this in the Parliament Hall. Please consider this an official request. Please, Mustafa Najem, Peter Dusty Block. [[Noise Nodes]] Please, Mustafa Najem, "Block. Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today’s day should clearly demonstrate responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u80	Stop! Stop! Stop! Oleg Valeriyovich, Andry Lozový, you can now break the voting process. I'm warning everyone. I warn everyone that now, by their incoherence, the people's deputies can disrupt the voting process, such an important vote. So calm down, get back to your seats. Calm down. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today’s Supreme Council is scheduled to demonstrate that words and deeds are appropriate. All of us in the election said that the law is one for all. And from the point of view of the faction of Peter Prashenko, no one: no MP, no pensioner, no military officer, no civil servant should have the advantage of pretrial or even judicial investigation. The integrity of the deputies should be removed in general, and today separate from the two people to whom the General Prosecutor’s Office is concerned. I think it really doesn't have to be any questions or discussions. The only question to be asked is the words of apologies that were to be made by factions leaders who took such deputies on lists and today would also bear part of the moral responsibility. Today, too, there are words to say that today’s vote will be the same as the next time that the Attorney General of Ukraine submits to other national deputies, which our faction does not doubt. Therefore, I now call for a vote in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity from the two national deputies of Clovis, Melniczuk and allowing them in court, not on a committee or on the Supreme Council, to argue their arguments in a court of law. And only the court, not the MPs, not the journalists, not the public, but the court will determine the extent to which they will be punished. And we are confident that the joint efforts of the Supreme Council to clean up the judicial system, the Attorney General's Office, which has changed its approach to compliance with the letter of the law, should lead to justice and legality in these two and in all subsequent cases. We vote "yes" today and the next few days when the new submission comes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u83	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, today's performance is kind of simple, because it's understandable, but on the other hand, it's very complicated. Because I'm not the first time in Parliament that I've voted for this kind of decision, and I think that I have to give up the general populist notion that everyone who's guilty is sitting in this room, and I want to move on to the specific things that directly apply to the Attorney General's application. And here are some of the key things. We should never repeat the things that have happened in this session hall about the two, or even the three previous judges. Because there can't be a situation where Parliament agrees, actually supporting the Attorney-General's Office, and then the agreement and the attraction to arrest actually ends with such issues falling apart in the courts. Our faction has discussed this issue, and we have no questions as to what such consent should be given. And only the court must establish the truth. But on the other hand, we need to understand that any thing that relates to the highest legislative body of Parliament that actually sanctifies the submission of the Attorney General with its own hands should be prepared professionally, clearly, and should have no further grounds for cancelling either in Ukrainian courts or in international courts. I think that what Janukovich's regime created gives a very quick basis and simply answers questions. As they did about Timoshenko, Lucenko, about Makarenko, and dozens, dozens of other political prisoners. But we are well aware that we cannot follow Yanukovich, who called the Attorney General, summoned judges, and gave instructions as to what terms to give, to whom, for what, and when. I think we should move on to a completely different mode of work. Our move today is a date of agreement. Further, the Attorney General's Office, as the prosecution's party, will have every reason not to hide behind the mandate of the deputy, but to be held accountable in court for every case that is being incriminated by the Attorney General's Office. On the basis of this, and the vote today and the next vote in favour of the Attorney-General, I think this should be a matter for Parliament when such matters are considered essentially neither by a committee of profile. Because we are not investigators, and we are not judges. Not just any other committee, but this is a matter that should be brought directly to court. And we should give that agreement today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u84	Thank you. Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front. We haven't signed up for the will of the people and the Opoblok. Please identify yourself. You have the right to speak if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u85	Respectable Head, distinguished People's Deputies, People of Ukraine! According to FATF experts, this is an organization that fights money-laundering around the world, you have spent $167 billion in Ukraine over the past 15 years. It's the money that could strengthen our defenses, reform medicine, law enforcement, education. A typical scheme for the withdrawal of money was to take credit in a public bank using its position, to invest it in a project, then to sell it or take some money abroad immediately, to buy yachts, real estate and so on. The investigation that began with Sergei Kluev, and in fact with the Kluev brothers, is just a small tip of that iceberg that dealt with money abuse, finance, and economic law violations in Ukraine. And the People's Front faction wants to make sure that more economic laws are not violated in Ukraine, that there is respect for private property, and that no one, in the exercise of their official position and parliamentary mandate, can choose someone else's property or abuse their rights upon obtaining credit. Therefore, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity from Sergei Kluev. However, we would like to see a presentation in this room and by such prominent deputies as Yuri Boyko, who was justifiably accused by the press and the investigative authorities of the day’s thefts in the purchase of the so-called “high Boyko”. As a result of the press and information, about $200 million in Ukraine has been lost due to price hikes. We would like to see a presentation in this room for another member of Mr. Bakulin's Opposition Block on his work at NAC "Neftegaz". Now on the question of former Commander Idar Sergey Melniczuk. No one has the right to immunity from prosecution by law if he has violated that law, even if he was a patriot, even if he was in Maidan, even if he was protecting Ukraine with guns. We will vote in favour of withdrawing the integrity of Sergei Melniczuk, but the People's Front faction will not support matters related to the arrest and detention of Sergei Melniczuk. He's in this room right now, he's not hiding from the investigation, and we think he can fully show who's to blame, who's to blame. We don't want the massacre that was in this room with Yuri Lucenko, with Julia Timoshenko, who was put in jail without being allowed to do so. Or with a man like Igor Mosiyczuk who spent two and a half years in prison for the explosion of Lenin's nonexistent monument. Therefore, we will also support all the submissions made by the Attorney-General's Office if they are justified and will be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u86	Please, National Deputy Bondar, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u87	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues, the regulatory committee has been looking very carefully for three days at the submission materials, we have studied the legal side according to the Rules, the legality, the adequacy, the soundness of the materials provided. You know, in unanimity, the committee voted in favour of the fact that, unfortunately, from a legal point of view, imperfect, insufficient evidence, insufficient legality. There is virtually nothing in the material that allows for a normal, civilized way of looking at these submissions and accepting them in the hall. Unfortunately, what the Attorney General gave her made the entire hall a political hostage of her actions and her incompetence in the collection of materials. There is no statement from those who are the victim’s side in matters, no evidence in the material that the same Clave or Melniczuk were personally giving commands, signing documents, and so on. We carefully studied other evidence based on the assumptions of witnesses and others who seemed to have seen something and so forth. Unfortunately, such material preparation makes the hall a hostage of politics again. We haven't seen this in 20 years when, in order to deal with political opponents, with opposition, with past opposition blocks, parties and so on, the Attorney General's Office used it as a roaring and doing its own business, and then the Hall was to bless all the incompetent actions. Today, once again, politics in the hall can be viewed everywhere in the prism of law, and the principle of the matter can be considered because of political crisis. Unfortunately, politics is back on track today. And that's why our team of MPs says once again that in 20 years we have to change the country. We're talking about Europe, we're talking about European values, let's start with ourselves, we're looking at issues of legal purity everywhere, and we're not doing that through the Attorney-General's Office, other law enforcement agencies, against those who disagree with or disagree with today's policy of power. So once again we insist: there is a legal side, and unfortunately today the General Prosecutor's Office is making a political hostage of what is political will, which is only to be voted on because someone doesn't like Melniczuk and so on. But once again, I said yesterday: we know what war is, we know what conditions Melniczuk was gathering his people, we know that Idar was one of the first units created that voluntarily went to the front. There are no holy people, there are no sacred things, but we need to be objective about whether there is evidence or not. If the prosecution didn't give them to us, the regulatory committee came to the right conclusions. So the MP's rebirth group insists, let's take an objective look at the matter and listen to the people who defend themselves here, Melniczuka, including. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u89	On Monday, we're all familiar with the Euromaidan-SOS public initiative, and we've re-gathered our thinkers to discuss, and what about the total collapse in the establishment of justice, including the punishment of those who shot Euromaidan? And they reminded us all of the simple truth: Unpunished evil returns. I want to tell Sergey Clovis and other deputies from the Opposition Block: the former regime must answer for their crimes, not for revenge and not for entertainment, but for us, the present-day authorities, the current coalition, the current government, the current president, to know that the circular message is broken. Now we haven't stopped all the corruption, it's going on in a lot of big state enterprises, it's going on with separate ministries. And we can even see in the work of today's Attorney General's Office, including these investigations that the circle message is being preserved. And so it's very important that we start tearing it up so that every president, every prime minister, every minister, every deputy, knows that if I can make another deal now, if I can cover it up somehow, when those possibilities disappear, I'll be put away. This is important for the establishment of justice. This is important for the country to finally start living by the principles that led to the death of the people in the city. Of course, Sergey Klovev is only the first step. We don't understand, and we join the thoughts of colleagues who said, "What about arrests?" What about Bakulin? What about Boyko? What about Lewochkin? I want to tell our coalition partners, and you and I really need to be ready, which might be people among us: those who are now in high office, those who are now entering the coalition. The law, indeed, must be one for all. We don't have to talk much right now. Self-help will vote in favour of bringing both MPs to criminal responsibility, but we have a huge request for everyone: let's consider this the first small step from breaking a circular message -- this cursed circular message that has for decades prevented the country from living. And let's tear it up every day. Let us make sure that more and more of those responsible for their crimes. Finally, people gave us authority to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u90	Please, Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Today is an unforgivable day for each of us. I remember in my own time voting for the removal of the in touch with Agaphonov, our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy; under what pressure that was and where that led. I am. In Lazarus, too. In due time, despite the pressure of Kuchma, I signed letters and voted in favour of a fair trial and investigation concerning Yuri Vitaliyovich, Julius Volodymyrna, and Makarenko. I've always demanded justice, and I've always been against revenge, but on a political basis. What we have today. For the first time in the history of parliamentaryism, we, the national deputies of Ukraine, are involved in a purely commercial conflict. One shareholder complained and drew the Attorney General to his side and complained about another shareholder. Not even Kluev, his fault is that, first of all, he's been sneezing, and second of all, he's got a son-in-law working there. Please tell me if I wasn't standing in this rostrum and convinced that after the 15th vote on the collapse of the Law on Convict Justice, I would have passed that law. Remember, with my eye tied, I went out, and after the 16th or 15th vote, we voted on the law. My colleagues in their previous convocation remember that day. And we have this law. Why do we not have any judgment as to why we have adopted this law? The guilty one should be held accountable, preferably in the eyes, if not in the hands of the blind. But where are these decisions, where are these actions? Sadly, they are not there. And today I apologize. We're being brought into an adventure of disunity within corporate interests. I'll be honest, it's disgusting. No one has ever done that with the National Deputies; today it is the jurisdiction of the Economic Court, not the Supreme Council and not the Regulatory Committee. Therefore, honourable colleagues, for the fault of being commanded. Wherever they are, in Ukraine or outside Ukraine, in coalition or opposition, but you have fought for an honest Ukraine, for justice and for transparency, and your colleagues in the regulatory committee say, "There is no basis for this decision today." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, statements by factions and groups have been completed. It took 15 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine to speak. Please be prepared, Your Honor, to record the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. Is there no desire to speak? You don't? No, thank you. Please stop. Please. They insist on the procedure, please. We can just shorten the performances to 10 minutes. Please sign in. Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front, please. Ten minutes, we're taking time to talk to the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Sergey Visock.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u94	Sergey High, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u95	We all listened to the office of Attorney General. And we all hope that bringing Mr. Clovis to account is the first piece of the process to begin. It's a process of justice, it's a process of upholding the justice that we started in Maidan. Evil is not punished, as our colleague Jegor Sobolev rightly said. But I would like to remind not only of Boyka, Bakulin, and other so-called opposition activists who acted like Mr. Skorik, to crush us all with tanks in Midan, and then to play Russia and separatists in their war against Ukraine. I want to ask and point out to Mr. Guzir about the phenomena that we're looking at a little bit, and it's kind of surprising to us. This is Mr. Ephraim, these are other people who don't have parliamentary immunity at the moment, but they're somehow unattractive and somehow they're somewhere, they're out there, they're out there somewhere, they're out there, and they're not sitting in S.I.A. These are other ladies like Simonenko and the Communist Party and these people who helped Russia invade Ukraine. That is, there are many questions that involve not only the issue of integrity but the question of justice and the punishment of the guilty. So you have to take it out. And we want to say publicly that the issue of the Attorney General's Office is and I think they're going to accumulate. We really want to hear the answers, and I very much hope that the Attorney General will provide these answers later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Victoria Bird, Self Help. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! You know, I'm sitting in Parliament right now, and I'm really sad. It's sad because it's been a year since those events on the field and we don't see any results, we don't see any results from the activities of law enforcement. I am ashamed to look into the eyes of those relatives of the fallen Celestine of Heaven, whom we all know. I'm ashamed that, despite this, the Attorney General's Office is working as though lawyers, but lawyers can't, they can't, they can't prepare normal, quality documents, so that we don't discuss it right now, so that we don't give a gift to Mr. Clove's lawyers. I don't understand why the Attorney General is doing this, and I'm very ashamed of it. Of course, the self-help faction will vote in favour of consenting to Mr. Clovis' criminal responsibility. But we don't understand why the Attorney General didn't file a separate arrest for Mr. Clovis' arrest. Well, I don't. As a matter of fact, Mr. Melniczuk's attorney general gathered more evidence than he did for Mr. Clovis. Well, why does the anti-corruption center of the public organization have this evidence, and the Attorney General's office doesn't own it? Well, haven't the civil society representatives given the Attorney General's Office the evidence again, and hasn't the Attorney General had sufficient reason to believe that a particular person could escape the investigation? If the attorneys of the Attorney General are unable to prepare quality documents, we are ready to help them. I think that all civil society and lawyers who practice in criminal law are ready to help the Attorney General's Office. We are now voting, and I point out that it is only the responsibility of the Attorney General's Office to ensure that specific charges are made and that the court has no reason to cancel and not to bring Mr. Clove's criminal responsibility. You know, I'm talking to the entire civil society and I'm asking you to put such pressure on the Attorney General's staff so that none of them can escape their responsibility for a competent investigation. If attorneys of the Attorney General’s Office are unable to conduct these investigations, it may be necessary to exercise their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have six minutes left before the show. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall, after these statements, we will proceed according to the Rules to the vote. I invite you to the words of the Ukrainian National Deputy Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u99	Please pass the word to my colleague Yuri Berezi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u100	Yuri Bereza, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u101	After listening to Mr. Clovis, you know, I have this feeling that I have to introduce him right now, at least to "The Hero of Ukraine" for what he did for the economy, what he did for Ukraine as a whole. But I have again, I confirm, my previous colleagues who spoke about that. And I'm talking about as long as we hear that this is a political matter, we still can't move. Political affairs have nothing to do with politics. There is criminal responsibility, and these officials of the past regime must answer clearly all the questions that society is asking them. We have a question about that, again with the Attorney General. Why is there still no application for Mr. Kolesnikov, governor of the Dnipropetrov region, who on January 26 was in charge of a student beating? Why is Mr. Wilkul here, and he doesn't have a pass? There are a lot of questions just before the practical work of the Attorney General's Office. Mr. Attorney General, we will vote, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity. But from you, we look forward to offerings to all those who have done wickedness, who have done all things in order to take away from us the Crimea, who have done all things for it to begin in the east. Mr. Attorney General, have the responsibility and courage to do so in the shortest terms. All of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." There will continue to be a final speech by Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u103	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. In fact, it's a shame that time is lost and it's strange that these powers are in Parliament at all, that we have to consider for 4 hours what is a fact, and the work of the law enforcement authorities on this still doesn't have to stop. It's too bad, because right now, right now, when you're sitting in a quiet and cozy room, there's a fight in Marinka, where more than 30 people are injured, and we don't know where to take them, and how to end this fight. I am personally, like the faction interested in the success of the prosecution, in the success of the Attorney General's Office, in the success of every prosecutor who does his job. In my mind, the success of the prosecutor's office is to enforce the law in general in the state. I'm willing to help them in this success, I'm willing to help them succeed in their work, in their work of upholding the law in Ukraine. But the behavior of these people on both the committee and the consideration of these two petitions, well, honestly, is very surprising. I confirm that there was no pressure on us. There was no pressure on any member of the committee. But speaking publicly to journalists, Mr. Volodymyr Pavlovich, to me personally that I have to vote, I forbid you to speak to the National MP. I'll figure it out. I have enough internal will to make a decision and vote. I expect you, as a man, to be excused. Personally, my list of people who must be called to account for activity or inactivity in Yanukovich’s time is much broader. And I want to say, not by names, but by regions. I want to mention Curly Rig, I want to mention Marioupolis, I want to mention the Matter, I want to mention those people who have suffered loss of jobs, who have lost their lives, who have lost their health because of this system of things. And I'm paying attention to the Attorney General's office and the D.A.'s office in general that I'm going to be consistent, and I'm going to want your success. If you fail, you will be released tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u104	Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block. And we're going to vote according to the legislation, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's Parliament has a unique chance to break the circle's message when some MPs are "breaking" other deputies. In his explanation to the regulatory committee, Mr. Klavov said that the prosecution was based on the investigation of journalists. About the crimes that are being incriminated by Clovis, I wrote "Ukrainian Truth" and I personally wrote in 2010. And unfortunately, not all of these facts have been reflected in the data. In particular, Mr. Kluvov, who today shows himself to be an innocent victim, was an associate of Mr. Janukovich. For example, he bought an apartment in Yanukovic for seven million dollars simply by washing the money for Yanukovic. Similarly, he was the nominal fictitious owner of the residence of Medjugorje, and this is an Austrian company called Activ Solar, which has the same final owner, which is a trust from Liechtenstein, in fact a firm designed to hide the final owners of this entire corrupt code. Therefore, honourable Members, we must vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u106	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u107	I'm done. And I'm also handing over these facts to the performer of the responsibility of Henprocuror, which have been presented in journalistic investigations to involve them in the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, the procedure for consideration of this matter has been completed. In accordance with the legislation, we have to decide with you how to vote. In his statement, the Attorney General of Ukraine states that he requests that the application be considered for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy. This is the question that will now be put to the vote for consent to attract the Ukrainian national deputy Kljeva Sergija Petrovic to criminal responsibility – this is what is currently contained in the application, which is composed by the relevant official of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and supported by the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please prepare for the vote, your honourable colleagues, to take your seats. In accordance with the Prosecutor-General's motion, I am voting on the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Petrovich Kliv. Please identify the Ukrainian national deputies by voting. [[12:02:00]] For 287 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing to all the skeptics who were trying to start this issue yesterday on the illegal path and discredit the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday, I told some colleagues that I would not be able to discredit the Ukrainian Parliament and discredit the Head of the Ukrainian Parliament. And today, by your vote, you've proven that the whole procedure is legal, well-kept, and every MP is free to decide on this issue. Thank you, dear fellows. Next. We have now, I want to use my right to extend the session by 15 minutes. But there's an offer to continue the session without declaring a 30-minute break and working until the second hour, there's another submission. So I would ask all the national MPs right now my proposal to proceed to the second hour, to continue the debate, to support my vote. Please support us not to stop considering the application of the Attorney General. Please, colleagues, we are voting on the extension of our work to the second hour without interruption. Please be supportive. The procedure must be endured, dear colleagues. [[12:03:46]] For 269 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Attorney-General of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for consent to be brought to criminal liability, detention and arrest of some of Ukraine's national deputies, Sergio Petrovich. I want to inform you that the application contains a proposal to give consent to criminal liability, to give consent separately for detention and to give consent separately to arrest. All these three proposals will be voted on separately – as required by legislation. As a parliament, we have full consideration of the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The appropriate submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine was directed to the regulatory committee under consideration, and the relevant decision of the regulatory committee has also been handed over to you. In accordance with the procedure, I would like to give the floor to the acting Attorney General of Ukraine to answer the questions of representatives. The answers to questions, namely, Guzier Vladimir Pavlovich. Please have 10 minutes to answer the questions. Then 10 minutes before the People's Deputy Melniczuk, and then the procedure. Ten minutes is enough:? Do you have enough 10? 15 minutes. 15 minutes, acting as Attorney General, 15 minutes, Sergio Melniczuk, Ukrainian national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would like once again to state procedurally that I fully support the submission made by the Attorney-General in connection with the prosecution of the criminal responsibility of the People's Deputy Melniczuk, detention and arrest. If you'll excuse me, there were three fragments. The first one I would like to respond to is Deputy Schuffritch, who accused the Attorney General of voting the halls and, to this day, the legislator has decided to pass judgment. In this regard, for the former party members of Nestor Ivanovich, there are several cases in the courts today, including Mrs. Bogityrov, who is to stand trial and hopefully a just judgment related to the mechanism of ecclesiastical condemnation. The second question is, if you're prejudiced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u110	Vladimir Mikhajlovich, according to the procedure, 15 minutes, I will now record a question from MPs and a group of national MPs. Please, Your Honor, sign up for a question under the Attorney General’s responsibility to file. Please. Please, National MP Moseschuk, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Attorney General, please tell me. It's the same question that colleagues asked, but it's very specific. There are arrests and arrests on Melniczuk. Isn't this the pay of the Attorney General's Office of the Clovis and the Thieves Block for voting for the Attorney General along with some of our coalition colleagues? That's one question. And the second. Are you and your supervisor the Attorney General ready to resign if the Clovis case breaks down in court? Are you ready to resign?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u112	I'll start with the last one. Willing to resign should have a loving official in office. And the decision to resign is made in accordance with the Constitution -- what I'm going to say for it. And that's essentially what it's about. Of course, the Attorney General's Office, I'm sure no dividends have been given or paid to anyone, including your names. And if you say so, the question is now. I have a right to say why there is such a hard question about the precautionary measure of Melniczuk. Mr. Melniczuk has committed crimes outside the war zone, if you know what I mean, Mr. People's MP, if you listen to me. Not in a combat zone, I'd like to emphasize. These unlawful acts were committed in the territory of Zitomirsk, Kyiv, the city of Kiev. The investigation didn't start yesterday or today. I would like to point out that Mr. Melniczuk thinks so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u113	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Semenchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u117	Semenschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u118	I don't understand why the situation with Kluev doesn't choose a measure of restraint, and the situation with Melniczuk chooses an arrest. But that's not the point. If we're going to clean up, if we're talking about liability before the law, when there's a criminal case that's been investigated for over a year, the Ilovysk case, when there's an IL-76 case in which the accused is at large, is putting pressure on the investigation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u119	Thank you very much, you helped me answer, that's what I was going to say. I'm informing the entire room that the Attorney General's Office is perfectly fit without any choice on the subject, or it's one name, two or three. I am reporting that the Ilova tragedy is being fully investigated and you will know. As part of the investigation into the ILA that killed our troops, I'll only call you the names of some of the generals: So thank you for asking. I would like to be properly understood by the people's deputies who are in the hall, not by me. In this case, without regard to the individual, a decision shall be taken which shall be required by law and by the gravity of a crime which may be incriminating to an individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, National Deputy Kirichenko. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u121	I give the word to Volodymyr Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u122	Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u123	Good afternoon. I would like to emphasize once again the question why Melniczuk has 3 applications and Clovis 1? Because no one got an answer here. And I have this question about Melniczuk. Please tell us how large the evidence base is on his crimes and how much the prosecution will feel in court to prove his guilt. That's what I'm interested in right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u124	Thank you. I think everyone will understand. My third point is that there were five people under arrest. I'm saying "was," because two of these five people have been changed by the court to take a precautionary measure into house arrest. Thus, when the court decides to arrest the accomplices, we will speak about this unlawful act, which was organized by Mr. Melniczuk, from the point of view of the investigation, it has already been judged by the court. And the court ruled on the arrest of these people. And the evidence base is enough to ask you to agree to all three positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u126	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Please tell me, is there a documentary or evidence base on the missing or missing Kalashnikov rifles that you claimed were worth more than a thousand pieces? Is their location likely to be known? And are they suspected of investigating Melniczuk’s involvement in crime? As was shown on TV yesterday, the capture of the hygienists and things like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u127	Yes, we gave this evidence to the committee. Today, it sounded so small that no evidence was given. The evidence base that's related to the lack of vending machines, we reported to the committee, and now I'm reporting from the hall that this was an inventory of criminal conduct. This is what is considered to be an investigation. That's the first question. Where are these machines? It's pretty common. And I'll tell you one thing, one of the machines worked for us in one of the regions where there's a fairly large diversification group on the part of the Russians. It's not an ATO, I can tell you that. Trasology is evidence of this. You're a lawyer, you know, after this gun was shot, which was held in a divergent, one of these machine guns was identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Mikola Velichovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u129	Mr. First Deputy Attorney General, I have a question for you. The D.A.'s report on the Melniczuk case indicated the creation of an organized criminal gang in May/June 14th. I have a question: is this about the volunteers who stopped separatists and Russian aggressors in northern Luhansk during this period with guns in their hands?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u130	No, it's not about those people. This applies to subjects who have committed offences provided for in the Criminal Code and, in particular, in article 257.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Igor Lapin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u132	I have a question. Well, first of all, the discreditation of the battalions for today is one of Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin's programs, I'll tell you that. Now it's about who it's about, who it's not about. You said it was about the Idar battalion volunteers and the thousand guns, the Kalashnikov machine guns, that could be said by a man who's never been out of the office. You've tried, ever in the field of combat, to gather Kalashi's dead comrades when there's no way to get the wounded out. What you're talking about. Please question me as a witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u133	Okay, it's time to question, but not in this context, if you'll excuse me. I'm a lawyer, I'm a prosecutor, I'm a patriot, and the defense of the Fatherland is a sacred duty of love. And believe me, I've had (I'm almost 60 years old) to see something in this life, so I understand your questions. But I don't blame myself for seeing my 34 years in the D.A.'s office. That's the first question. And the second question about volunteers, as a lawyer, I say, volunteer or other informal warring groups, which are called volunteers in these situations, and the other way is the groups that drive around the city of Kiev, in the city of Kharkiv, in the city of Odessa and are called patriotic, is to carry out a clear border, volunteers, I bow my head to them, but there's law, there's the Armed Forces, there's a constitution, there's an anti-terrorist operation leader, there's the responsibility of those people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u134	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u135	They called these people to themselves, they believed in the festival, and the problems they created today will be considered in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u137	But I'm going to ask you one more time. Why is it that there is no apprehension on Clovis, whose hands include the life of the Celestial 100? Why? Of course, you can explain about Melniczuk. How did I get better Clugging than Melniczuk? With what? Give a clear answer, no one in the room can understand this, because for us, Kluvev is the specialization of the regime for MPs, this is the personification of Janukovich. He owned it. It was written on "The Magi," which you didn't specify in your application, by the way. So answer the question. Are you sure he won't run away from the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u138	I'll answer from the last one. I don't have that conviction. None. But we've already considered this submission and I've been answering your questions that the investigation and, including, on the issues that are painful, it's going to go on, and I'm not ruling out the possibility that sufficient evidence is going to be gathered and we're going to go back to this question in this room about this citizen. For the prosecutor's office, he's a Ukrainian citizen who's committed a crime and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u139	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u140	Mr. Reporter, I have a feeling there's no holy justice. There's no festivity. And I thought, why is there no festivity in the hall? I found a quote from one immortal candidate for the post of Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk a year and three months ago. He says, "More than $20 billion of U.S. gold reserves have been disbursed, 37 billion dollar loans have disappeared in an unknown direction, 70 million dollars have been disbursed from offshore accounts." What can you say about our money? Well, a serious man, the Prime Minister called this fantastic money, we'd be living in a normal rich country, so that the D.A. and the police would find it. When will this money be found, when cases are opened, and when will you come to us, not with those submissions, but with serious fundamental submissions, if elected, will you open criminal cases not for political reasons but for the purpose of breaking up several government budgets in Ukraine? Then it is likely that the celebration of democracy and justice will begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u141	Mikola Volodymyrovich, I answer you and you know it. As far as Clovis is concerned, international sanctions take place and the money is blocked. You also know this about high - ranking workers. So far, to claim that all the sums called prime minister will come into the treasury, I'm not taking responsibility. But believe me, this job is going on, our investigators are working abroad, and our partners, even from one of the countries that it's affecting us, our economy, have asked questions about the possibility of providing them with criminal guidance materials. So believe me, this job is going to work and I think it's going to come to a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u143	Dear comrade in charge of the Attorney General, I would like to return to the question that the quality of the work of the Attorney General is fundamental and fundamental and fundamental to the work of Parliament. And once again, I would like to announce the personal responsibility of the staff of the Attorney General's Office in preparing the materials for Parliament's consideration. Because we can all talk a lot about our intentions and then see, at some point, all of our work and fighting that happens during the discussion, they break down either by defense or by a judge. That's why I'm asking you, as a national MP, to be in protective custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u144	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u145	Thank you. I think the Attorney General has more responsibility than anyone. Because he was initiating that question. And believe me, before making that decision, there was a very big problem with the work of all the departments of the Attorney General's Office. Therefore, I am confident that the question raised will find a logical, objective, complete and legal solution in court. In this regard, we ask that we be able not to judge these people. And the process that is defined by criminal law is logically concluded by a just and irreversible judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u146	Thank you. The time set by the Rules for questions is over. Please take your place in the Parliament Hall, Reverend Vladimir Pavlovich. Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergey Melniczuk, 15 minutes from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next is a report from the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u147	Welcome to all present, Mr. Chairman, the press! What I'm saying. I'm having a rainy day. I remember a year ago, and I remember being there in Luhansk, in Donbas, when I was helping Simeon out the first time, driving a broom of that pro-Russian bull that was waiting for them to come, that's the prosecution, that's the courts. But within a month of all that, I saw that quietly, quietly, they were coming back again, they were crossing. They're trying to get back to their places, they're bribed, because the reserves were made. It's only unfortunate that the very many patriots who came with me to Donbas at that time are now taking their photos at the Mikhail Council, where there was a discovery this weekend, and from the authorities -- not from the Cabinet of Ministers, not from the President -- there was not one person. Mothers came and wept: where's the mayor of the city, where's the president, where's any of their administration?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u148	Relationship? And the ratio is that a year ago the Idar battalion was in defense of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u149	Now we're going to have parallels. The parallels that the prosecution is currently conducting are the Donetsk prosecutor who is judging us. They're even on cars that drive guys who are arrested, they're picking up left numbers with Lugani and they're saying, "Look how we do it." If the boys of the Pecher Court, Tyre, the Basman Court is in Moscow judging boys and issuing 400 letters of accusation, and in 30 minutes, at night, they are being tried more. When I tell the D.A. that you're showing that billing phones, that the guy wasn't there, that he was elsewhere, and 200 people are witnesses that he wasn't there, and it's slandered that this guy was out of the field, we see that this is the 37th year that these three judges are going to be judging, we're going back to that. I also want a prosecutor in charge of the general’s duties about the person who did. I haven't been able to put on a video, and I'm going to turn on and tell the person who was in charge of this person. Well, you didn't say that there were two criminal cases in this man's death group that were being investigated. Radchenko. [[Audio recording broadcast]] This proves that a person failed a pro-Ukrainian rally when there was a pre-election campaign, and this was repeated. This person also helped some deputies to make shares, as if they were holding watchers, which he then ridiculed for 95 blocks. And so on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh! Is a hat on a thief? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll tell you. I'll tell you about Potarzick, 14, 9-10 stories, who went there and where it went. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you some video evidence. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the 14th, 9-10th floor, who lives there. Ahemov. Video evidence I'll give you, then you'll see. I'm going to show you the video evidence, and the security guard is standing under the driveway, and the cars are leaving. Those who charge that two machine guns were allegedly stolen. Let the investigation proceed, that's all. I'll show you the evidence, that's all! Next. But not that. What they fought for is one thing. That's different. When after we've protected the country, in fact, we haven't released the enemy, and that was very scary, I'm going to read you a report from one of my unit commanders. 04.09: "The night from 04.09 to 05.09 (the first Minsk agreements). Our five-person group held the position of the 12th territorial battalion and the first tank brigade, which were constantly retreating. 04. 09th. Starting at 0.20 and 5. On 09th, we were assisted by a group of the Terminator, a senior group of the Scyba Alexander, 11 people, and 16 of us held positions until the morning when the 80th Air Force on two BTRs and two tanks arrived in our position. The first tank then betrayed, escaped from its position. The whole police were already in Harkow. The army’s command was more than 120 kilometers from the front. The place where we stopped the enemy. The administration was gone. Also, a report from the same commander. "Me and our troops were evacuated by the BTR-80 and the Bullat tank, which were replaced." In doing so, he tells us what and how. We have that. We stopped the enemy, we evacuated the tech maximum. But after all this was done, in the back, under the direction of the General Staff and the GSP (and I can't say that the second thing I can say is that this technique was cut into scrap metal. And I put this evidence on the committee. There's a video of how fighters watch. They've come, they're trying to make sure he doesn't get cut like that, and his trunks are cut off alive. We're calling the GSP, Chief of General Staff. It's all like being sent an e-mail. Nothing's done, everything's covered. As in the ATO zone, the anti-aircraft plant and the ammunition of the City. We're sitting with the Chief of General Staff. There's a report in Kharkiv that there's a car on the blockway that was carrying a metal scrap metal: a metal-plated dental device, under the metal scraps of the ammunition of the city. And then blow it up. Nothing's happening! It's all covered up, it's all closed. Next. The campaign's gone. I'm not a politician, but what I did and was there. Don't break me. Don't bend me. I will continue to fight both there and here. That's why. I said I'd fight corruption, and I started doing it. Yes, I was sent to the Attorney General's Office for requests for state funds. Yes, first. In 2011 - 2012, Ukraine’s agrarian forum was stolen by the Kaleseni brothers and the Jury. The answer to the MPs is not given, the Attorney General is not investigating the case. The other one. 410 factory, Director Podreza. The airline contract with India is 276 million. Five planes are still under construction, half the money is stolen, and five planes are what we have to do with India. Third. The case is not investigated by the Henprosecutor. Krakhimtrasamak, head of Bondik. I've allocated $150 million to the company's management for seven years. Every month now, he's down $2 million right now. It's all under new authority, it's not being investigated. The art arsenal, DuSya, so called, has stolen more than 20 million dollars as a result of corruption schemes. The matter is not being investigated. Crossword Puzzle. From 2010 to 2014, Yuri Yenakiyivsky, in his pocket, lived $150 million. The shadowy sale of 500 million bottles per year and the difference between the sale of alcohol lie with Yuri Yenakiyevsky and those who break it. I was initiated to create the TSK, everyone knows that 15 deputies have already been assembled, every faction head, group has appointed its deputies who worked in this TSK, and only one group, the group head, the faction's head has not given permission. So if they're trying to shut down, for example, about 400 million dollars is stolen, people are good, they've stolen over 2 and a half billion and they need to be investigated, not hidden for 400 million dollars. And that's not being investigated. They try to put the matter on the other side. Repetitive appeals about corruption at Ukrózlíznice have also not been taken into account. Next. 23.03. The original material that confirms the commission of crimes by officials of the DSS service. Along with the MP’s address, I personally handed over to Minister Habakkuk. On the same day a criminal case was committed. This is an example for you. And 25.03 Bochkovsky and Stoyecki were already arrested at the Kabmin meeting. Maybe if they want to. All the MPs that were, I'm giving copies to the Chief of the Supreme Council so they can see for themselves. Next, what about the case that the D.A. is incriminating. With all but one point, I am simply associated with the people I served with. In just one point, I personally took part. So, after this point where I personally took part, and it's like they're blaming me. And they don't even, the Attorney General's Office has even turned to the investigating body that fixed the event. That is, the applicant is Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u150	Please, Sergey Petrovich, how long do you need to finish? Please, two minutes, please. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u151	participants in the events of Cosub Ruslan and Kapas Oksana. There's been a phone call. "Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, (you mean I, the applicant) said that there were two fighters hiding at the Idar battalion who voluntarily left the unit without a license plate. The exit indicates that at the given address of SsangYong's car, the owner of Kirpacz is such a, like, platoon commander of the Idar battalion and the removal of two cartridges to the Makarov pistol, as well as a grenade in the decommissioned state, a shell with markings, check-marking, inflammation, a marker insert. It has also been established that SsangYong is in search of the Kagarlitsky region, the ban on arrest, the car in question was placed on a fine course, and the materials will be sent. Also, the person who allegedly wrote this statement indicates that she has left the military section with the records of the military personnel, that is, the person in the application indicates that she has left the position of the military unit with the documents of official use, that is, the official crime, and the Attorney General is closing his eyes and not opening the case to the person in question, but he's running the case as if I got it, or she's twisting all the facts. And so on every occasion. I can tell you this hour, sorry, but time is short.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u152	Thank you. Showtime's over. Please report to the Main Committee within 10 minutes, since three issues have been raised. Please, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u153	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 13 May 2015, the committee at its meetings on 15, 20, 27, 29 May this year addressed the issue of the submission of consent to criminal liability, the detention and arrest of the National Deputy of the Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich, supported and brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Attorney General’s reply to the committee on the explanation and concern of the People’s Deputy Melniczuk. The report proposes that the Supreme Council agree to attract, to criminal liability, detention and arrest of the People's Deputy Melniczuk on the signs of criminal offences envisaged in part two of article 206, "The Opposition to Legal Economic Activity", part two of article 146, "The Unlawful Deprivation of the Will or Kidnapping of a Man", part two of article 187, "The Exclusion", part two, "The Indemnity of the Will or the Abduction of a Man", part two, article 296, part two, "Hooliganism", part two, article 146, part three, "No Enforcement of a Judgment", part three, article 27, part two, part four, article 28, part four, "The Threat or Violence of a Law Enforcement Officer", part two, article 127, part one, "The Unlawful Treatment of Weapons, Ammunition or Explosives", article 257, of the Criminal Code. In accordance with the first part of article 220 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, the Committee should conclude on the issue of consent to criminal liability, detention or arrest of the Ukrainian National Deputy and must determine, in accordance with the law, the adequacy, legality of the submission, the legality of the receipt of the evidence in the data and the availability of the relevant complaints. According to the May 20th Committee’s decision, a list of issues was approved, 30 of which were necessary to prepare the committee’s conclusions. And the committee appealed to the Attorney General to provide information on the criminal conduct of the People's Deputy Melniczuk and the motivated answer to the questions raised by the national MPs. In response, the Attorney General of Ukraine answered 19 of the 30 questions and noted that the Committee’s analysis shows that some of them are evidence of pretrial investigations that are not subject to disclosure at this time in accordance with the CPC’s requirements. On May 29, two meetings were held of the committee for the performance of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the People’s Deputy Melniczuk and other invited persons, and advocates, representatives of the media, on which the committee decided to adopt the committee’s conclusions. In particular, the Committee considered the submission of the Attorney General to be in accordance with the requirements of the law. However, evidence on the basis of the submission in part of the criminal characterization of the 257 Ukrainian Criminal Code "Banditism" was considered insufficient. As far as the others are As for the other part of the prosecution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered it possible. Next. The committee did not consider the submission to be well - founded in the part of the consent to be detained and in the part of the consent to be arrested. The evidence given regarding the grounds for submission in part of the detention and arrest agreement was not sufficient for the committee. Next. On June 2, the chairman of the Supreme Council was instructed to hold a committee meeting to review the Committee’s previous decision of May 29. The final decision of the committee is as follows: first, to approve the decision of the committee on submission; secondly, to grant consent to criminal liability to be considered legal; and, secondly, to suspend, to believe that the Attorney General had the right to make such a submission. And the same as for the arrest. This conclusion is addressed to the Head of the Supreme Council for introduction to the Hall. Colleagues, we need to make a decision on three questions, I ask you to listen carefully. Individually, they have to vote. First. The Office of the Attorney-General's Office's application to consent to the criminal responsibility of Melniczuk is part of the attraction to criminal responsibility. The other one. Individually, the issue of consenting to detention, the temporary detention of the national MP Melniczuk, should be raised. And finally, third. Individually, the question of voting for consent to the arrest of the national MP Melniczuk should be raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. The report of the regulatory committee has been completed. We're starting the procedure for discussing this issue. Recording of factions and groups. Please speak from factions and groups. For the time being, please invite First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andriy Volodymirovich Parubia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are considering a very important but very sensitive question. And I'd like us to be very careful with him. The appearance of the Attorney General concerning Sergey Melniczuk begins with the words: "Melniczuk organized an armed gang in Lugansk during May-September 2014." I just want to remind you, a year ago in May and June in northern Lugansk there was an organized resistance movement, a movement of Ukrainian time, when unfortunately neither the army nor the police nor the Security Service were unable to protect our administrative cities. When, unfortunately, we left the city behind, and we lost Ukrainian territory. So the self-defense of Maidan and my initiative as secretary of the NPB back then was the organized resistance movement in northern Luhansk. And I coordinated these actions directly. Why am I stressing this? I would not like to see the question of Sergey Melniczuk go into the general campaign of discrediting all volunteer movement, which has greatly helped to stop the aggressor in all possible ways at that time. I would like to point out that in every way possible. We have Igor Lapin Zola, a warlord who spent many months in this fight. Vladimir Sawyer, "The Arrow", who spent many months at the Idara warring. The centurion of the eighth hundredth Oleg Mihnuk died in the Idara in a fight in Lugansk. A heroic battalion, and we should not be moving the question of one person with the heroic battalion Idar, which is that the north of Lugansk today is Ukrainian. Do I support the attack on volunteers? No, it's not. They came and told me how the attacks had been carried out. Do I approve of the fact that under the name of the legendary Idar battalion, they were engaged in a coup d'état and engaged in an economic robbery? No, I don't. Do I support those who were involved in a questionable financial relationship with those who destroyed Midan? No, I don't! Let the investigation take its decision. So I think we should vote, like the Clovis, for removing the touch. But at the same time, I think there should be parity. I believe that on the issue of arrest and detention we should not vote, this will change parity according to the situation that is with Clovis and the situation that is with Melniczuk. And I have another question for the prosecutor. This is what we have now every time: one volunteer and one criminal of the previous authorities? That can't be right. There can be no such exchange! Today is the birthday of Andrija Digdalovich, who from the first day on Maidan, the security guard of the headquarters who came in at the 8th hundredth self-defence of Maidan. How long has it been since, and we don't have a claim on those people who organized this murder -- it's falling down, it's a stain on each of us in this room, on the whole Ukrainian power. We ask the Attorney General and we look forward to the names of the people who are responsible for the crimes that Yanukovic organized, who organized his entire call, without exchange, and here to put and put us to the vote, and the House will vote. We have demonstrated today that this Parliament, today's Parliament, is capable of overcoming any political arrangement when it comes to justice. We expect new applications from the prosecutor for criminals who, unfortunately, continue to be in our room today, and we will vote, and we will make the right decision. At the same time, given Sergey Melniczuk's request, I think we should vote in favour of removing the inviolability, and on the issue of arrest and detention, I think we should abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u156	Please, about the recording, please, Vadim Rabinovich "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I think you've all heard a statement by the Vice Speaker. I want to draw your attention to two things. We've been told that this man organized a gang, but we can't arrest him because he's a folk hero. I think that it is not the Constitution of Ukraine, not the Code of Criminal Procedure, it must be the same for all. We're talking about removing the MP's integrity, it's absolute, but the same responsibility any person must have, as it is in the street. Why is it that if he organized a gang sitting in the hall, he can't be arrested, and if he's on the street, he's arrested? And one thing. I appeal to you, your Honourable Attorney-General. You know, today the country is in a difficult economic situation, the current power and this has been said in this room, including by the factions of one faction, the other, and they're triggering the country just as badly as it was. Why isn't there serious things going on in this room about how the Yatzenuk Government is driving the country apart? What's happening today, why are we always looking for Lazarus, Smarenko, everyone who's already fled? Why don't we stop it today? Until the names of those in power are included in the Hall, we will not trust you or anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u158	Please, People's Republic of Logwinsky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u159	People's MP, Georgi Volodymyrovich, People's Front faction. Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u160	Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u161	Excuse me. I give the word to Igor Lapin of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u162	Please, People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u163	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that each of us, when we went to Parliament, spoke of the need to remove parliamentary immunity and, in principle, that is essentially true. But I would like to point out that I will take a firm stand against this with regard to Commander Melniczuk for two reasons. When we went to Lutugina, the main tank went. On the left side of the main tank he went, on the right side of the main tank I went. And this is a principled position not in relation to Melniczuk, and this is the principle of the position that I don't want to put justice into the hands of today's Attorney General's Office, the unreformed, unaltered party. And the thing about the market is that there's a "sniff" on the Clovis, and it's supposed to be a "leak" on the Melniczuk. So I emphasize, or all equal, or. We're just doing politics here. I'm not going to stand up for the commander as a human being right now, because I don't know the material of the case. I can tell you that he was the fighter we fought together. But I'm only going to say one thing that I don't see today is that I don't see the same uniformity and the same approach from the Attorney General's Office in all matters. I don't see any absurd notions like "the band created in May 2014." Ladies and gentlemen, this was the battalion that fought in Lugansk, and we cannot all measure with one comb. On the subject of kalashi, which seems to have been missed, you know, when the commander was at war, I know for a fact that the headquarters sabotage was carried out by the headquarters "tyle rats." And they don't understand, just like those who submit these submissions, how you can pick up Kalashnikov's assault rifles in the field, when you need to get the wounded out, and where there's no transport, where you need to think, what to do, and how to do it. So today, everyone will vote as they see fit. Once again, this is everyone's right, before the law, everyone has to be equal. But I'm going to ask the Attorney General's Office when you call the officers of the military, the U.S., not the scoundrel, please, the name Idar. The boys with the name "Idar" blew themselves up with grenades so that they wouldn't fall into captivity when they were betrayed by generals who were sitting in headquarters and "tyle rats" who were shaping humanitarian goods and who are now making a case that the Attorney General is filing for you today. I can emphasize those names. I think if the D.A. keeps his word, he'll question me as a witness, he promised me when the time comes, I'll name the last names and everything, so that you don't take your time right now. And in general, I would ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the fallen volunteers who were not a gang but were soldiers who were in Lugansk holding the defense and teaching the armed forces how to fight. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u164	Please, Semimen Seminchenko, Self Help. Do you hear how quiet it is in the hall right now? Better this way than when it blows?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u165	All these months, as a spell, the media and the rostrums say, "The law must be one for all.".. We're talking about justice. We're talking about equality before the law. But let's say what almost everyone is saying right now: the electoral justice system, the courts, the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS hasn't changed since Januković's time. These changes are only beginning to curse. Therefore, to pretend that we have independent justice is not worth it. Another issue is that we must not allow electoral justice. And when they tell us that there is no more crime than those committed by the volunteers, I want to remind you that they have not yet responded for Ilowaysk, they have not yet responded for Il-76. The circumstances of Debalcevo, Donetsk Airport, have not yet been investigated. No person will be held accountable who has been in our country for decades, not one prosecutor who has contributed to this. I do not see the need to pretend that we are, in fact, living in the rule of law. Therefore, I believe that the law is really one for all, but it is wrong to start cleaning up with volunteers. That's why I'm going to vote for Sergei Melniczuk to be brought to justice, but I don't want him to be arrested, given Kluev, given the absence of other defendants here. I believe that his appearance in the Supreme Council Hall, his position, the information he provides here, will enable him to stand in court while he is at large. I also want to say that it is now going actively. An active collection of signatures to ensure that the boys who will be volunteers in Mariupol SIZO in the Ravikov case are also released and can prove their innocence at large. Like Bochkowski, Stievsky, and other people who have money that they have connections to. I believe that we must not allow electoral justice. And I call upon the press, I call on the people's deputies, to be very careful in all these matters. We need to set a precedent when a person, regardless of his or her origin, could indeed be justified and convicted. I am very sad that now, along with the families, the name of the Idar battalion is indeed mentioned, because then, a year ago, except for the volunteers, who went directly from Majdan to protect their homeland, we did not hear the voices of all those who are now calling for the truth to justice. So let's not really spoil the guys, many of whom are now dead. The Russian troops are now on the move in Marienka, and I think our position is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u166	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u167	Anyway, it's hard for me to talk because it's really about a volunteer. I had a complicated relationship with Sergei Melniczuk, but I think he needs to be given an opportunity to prove his innocence, and the prosecution's guilt is on the loose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u168	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, now will be the moment of truth. War, it's always war, and let's remember the history of World War II, military operations all over the world, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Iraq, Afghanistan, it's always a special regime that happens there. And when someone in this room is proving to me whether it's torture or not, if you've been shot in the face by your fighter, and then you've turned your back. Is this torture or not? There must be a special mode here. I think the first thing to do is to separate crimes against humanity from all the other things that always happen on the fronts. Because, I'm sorry, this kind of thing will lead the country to the fact that no one's going to go to war for the country. Because when we're going to fight, we're going to say whether they were going to shoot back or not, or whether they have the right to shoot now or not. And I think here we have to separate things that are, no doubt, unacceptable even in terms of war. And that's why when you look at this question, there's a second question. We need to adopt the Amnesty Law here. The Amnesty Act is about those fighters who aren't on the fronts deciding whether to go into battle right now or whether to follow even the criminal order that's coming, knowing that you're going to be surrounded and you're going to be shot from all sides or not. And that's why what's happening around Melniczuk right now is my appeal to him. You're the first to be interested in proving your innocence in court. I would advise you (as opposed to the Clovis who promised, by the way, that he would remove the inviolability and not vote for it), to vote in favour of removing the inviolability from you. What's going on with the arrest? I think it's immoral to do that right now. What's more, against the backdrop of Melniczuk, and the absence of contributions to Boyko and many, many others who have ripped our country apart for millions and millions. That's why our faction decided. In the first decision we vote, in the second and third decisions that should be made separately, and we insist that these decisions be in accordance with the Rules, we do not vote. Moreover, we need to really establish justice and separate heroism. And heroism is not always with a human face when your comrades are shot in front of you. This is not always the case. And separate it from those crimes that, in my opinion and in the view of our faction, are not crimes in the context of fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Jeremeyev, People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u171	Ukrainian people! Dear Head! People's deputies! During the 20 years of independence of Ukraine, the Supreme Council Hall has seen repeated attempts to remove the intrusiveness of the national deputies. There has always been an attempt on the part of the authorities to push national MPs to make them hear power. I remember two years ago when Alexander Dombrowski and I, as a non-fractional national deputy, said that we needed to do something to keep you a national MP when we tried the Yanukovic regime of Dombrovsky, to remove the intrusiveness from Baloga, or to leave their national deputies. We remember well how the authorities tried Yuri Lucenko, Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko, by means of the methods of imprisonment. I could never imagine that this could happen a year after the tournament and after Ukraine started the war. Who is Melniczuk? To the stage, a simple man, an entrepreneur, paid taxes, lived and worked. The stage began as an honest citizen on the field and was 28 hundred years old, serving the Ukrainian people by faith for three months on the field. When the aggressor started the war, he went to volunteer first, he created Idar first. And we were all proud of you and Idara on the front. He asked to become a national deputy, and he came up to someone and told me to take me to the Supreme Council, so I went to the front. No, it's not. The politicians came to Melniczuk and said, "Be a national deputy, we're honored to be standing with you in the rostrum because you're a hero, the guys who served with you on the front, they're heroes." But over the past year he's like he is and today he's on this rostrum as he is, a word can hardly be said, but on white he speaks white, on black he speaks black. He understands that there is truth and that there is no truth; he does not know how to adorn words that politicians can do. And today it's a politically exchangeable coin. Who will vote for these decisions is on the conscience of every national MP. But I am convinced that the Ukrainian people understand that Melniczuk today is a political and exchange coin. I am convinced that if we act in the same way as Melniczuk and others, those patriots, those heroes who are going to the front today, who are protecting Ukraine with their lives, we are destroying this patriotism. Our faction will not vote for these decisions. But we've discussed this a number of times, and we believe that Sergey Melniczuk is not hiding from justice, he goes to the prosecution, he goes to interrogation, and he has a full moral right to defend his honour and conscience. We demand that this process be public, that journalists be present at all prosecution meetings, interrogations and court cases, that the Ukrainian people know that the Supreme Council can indeed be cleansed and that the Supreme Council will not go to political compromises, and that every national MP, if he is honest, has the right to his own protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u172	Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! First of all, on behalf of our faction, let us bow down and thank all the fighters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and all the fighters of our volunteer battalions, who have been for exactly a year, really guarding Ukraine's independence and demonstrating every day the feat. We're proud of you, dear, and you should know that. And it really isn't random today in society that absolute trust is only up to two institutions -- it's a church and it's an army. And so, in fact, every military must also realize that the reputation today is the battalion's reputation, which is today the reputation of the army. Unlike many of the men who come out of the rostrum in flames, I have been on the front with my classmates almost every week. And a year ago, we met Idar, and we're proud of that friendship. We've been to Novo Idar, we've been to Happiness, and we've seen heroes who have actually taken our wounded out of Lutugino, and we've protected Ukraine at the most difficult times. But we also know about the facts of the robbery to which we are involved, I hope, not heroes, but what our colleagues, other people, have rightly said. And therefore it is only for the court to determine where there is a violation of the law and the law must be one for all. The second question that no one has said today is the responsibility of the leaders who take on their list of people to score and then do not bear that responsibility. That's not right. Because if you'll excuse me, it's your responsibility, who's on the list, and how is that embarrassing sometimes to either the Ukrainian Parliament or the Ukrainian Army? As to how our faction will vote. The law is one for all. We support the removal of parliamentary immunity, but we support neither detention nor arrest, because it will be unfair. And we also think it's a matter of court, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the key. You know, your Honorable colleagues, with all due respect for the Attorney General's Office, but why isn't Ephraim's case still in court, why really today we don't consider the issues of those people who in the first class of every Kiev and other school know that they're criminals, that they've led to what Ukraine is bleeding today. If you need these documents, we'll give them to you. But it's not normal that, including from this bloc, we have, you know, those who are hiding from the MP's mandates and who are going through the territory that our Armed Forces guys are protecting and tearing up our battalions are protecting, continuing to do separatism, and there's no responsibility for that. Marauding and separatism are tantamount crimes, perhaps even greater separatism. That is why we demand the strongest responsibility for separatism. And in closing all this, I want to say that this is really a lesson today, that we have to realize that responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u174	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u175	The responsibility of politics, the responsibility of an army representative today is the responsibility of those high institutions that we represent. We live in a turning point, and we have to think not only about ourselves and our team, but about these high institutions that we represent. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u177	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I find it difficult to address this issue, as did Semimen Semenchenka, because Sergey Melnichuk went to the Hall of this Parliament for a list of the Radical Party under number 3. Sergey Melniczuk and I met in Stanica. Happy year, it looks like May months ago. And then when I'm asked right now, why didn't you figure it out, and why did you put it on the list? We took him on the list as commander of the Idar Heroic Battalion. But after he was given a parliamentary mandate, he lost his sense of ground and, above all, his high responsibility to the electorate. He began to use his own parliamentary mandate, not his own, but the parliamentary mandate given to him by the Ukrainian people. He began to use it in oligarchic landscaping, in manufacturing. When you tell me he's being charged with war crimes. No, Sergio Soboljevo, no. There's no war in Mirgorod, where he and his machine went to the Calina factory along with Kaskov to the director's office with the vending machine and pulled this factory. There's no war in Kiev where they kidnapped the director of the Kruspirt Lagutin and took him to Moldova. There's no war in Zitomirsk, thank God, where they blew up the paper mill. That's what they were doing under the name of the Idar battalion. And there is certainly no one in this room but a thief block who does not appreciate the contribution of volunteers in protecting the country’s salvation. Because if it hadn't been for the volunteers, if it hadn't been for the new National Guard, if it hadn't been for our Armed Forces, the remains that had been left over since Janukovich destroyed them, we wouldn't be sitting in this room with you today. We wouldn't breathe free Ukrainian air with you, because these volunteers, including Nadia Savchenko, who has forgotten, have served in the Idar battalion. And today she's taken prisoner. But Nadia Savchenko, she's a hostage in Putin in prison. And Melniczuk sits in the oligarchy group of Jeremeyev. Are there people in this room who think he's just sitting in that group? Don't we know what kind of money he went into this group for? Show me one of the voters in Ukraine who delegated Melniczuk to the oligarchic group Jeremeyev. And if this person had honor and conscience, after being expelled from the Radical Party faction for discrediting the name of the Ukrainian National Deputy, he would have a deputy mandate. And he's moved into an oligarchic group for grandmas, and he's going to get paid tomorrow, and he's going to go to another oligarchic group. In wartime, the Ministry blocked it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u178	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u179	In wartime, blocking the Ministry of Defense is a national betrayal. So I want to apologize as the leader of the Radical Party, and I want to apologize to our voters who voted for the Radical Party. I'm a living person, although I'm the party leader, I'm also entitled to a mistake, my mistake, one of my mistakes, I've made a lot of mistakes. And those who laugh, throw it at me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u180	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u181	Those who laugh, throw me a stone, if you have no mistakes, if you're holy, and if you haven't made mistakes in your life, I've made many of these mistakes, and I'm going to continue to make them, obviously. But I want to say. Sergey, with all due respect to you, you really did a year ago, you got under the gun, you protected the country, and for that you had the honor, and thank you. Today you use the name "Idar," the holy name "Idar," you use your MP's mandate to serve the oligarchs and it's your crime, and it's your fault, and you have no right to do it for the sake of the memory of those brothers who died in "Idar" for the sake of the memory of those who protected the country. We don't get the MP's mandate to "screw" the business, not to lobby Kaskov, Ljovckin, or anyone else. We are given a parliamentary mandate to protect people’s interests! If you don't understand this, make up the parliamentary mandate you've been given to the Radical Party voters and don't discredit the name of the People's Deputy!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, we have a ten-minute stand-off procedure for the national MPs. Is there no need to discuss? Okay. Dear colleagues, then we go to the vote. According to the Attorney-General's motion, there are the following questions that we have to put to the vote. First of all, it's about attracting the criminal responsibility of a national MP. The other one. This is about the arrest of a national MP and the third about the arrest of a Ukrainian national deputy. Agreeing, that's all right. I would like to refocus your attention that all these three requirements set forth in the application are voted on separately. I ask all members of the people to take their places of voting in turn for the proposals put forward by the Attorney General of Ukraine. First. I put to the vote, according to the Attorney-General's motion, the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Melniczuk Sergey Petrovic. On giving consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Please determine how to vote. [[13:18:07]] For 262 Decision taken. Next, Your Honor, may I have your attention? I am putting to the vote the question, according to the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine, of consenting to the detention of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Petrovich Melniczuk. Please determine how to vote. [[13:18:42]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next. In accordance with the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the issue of consenting to the arrest of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Sergio Petrovic. People's deputies please be alert! Attention! - regarding the granting of an arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:33]] For-16 Decisions, honourable colleagues, are not accepted. Accordingly, the decision of the Parliament, which was approved, was to give consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to remain in your seats. We have another 40 minutes to work. We have one important ratification. It's important that we all stay. And I want to say a few words. First, you and I have made all the decisions that we consider necessary, which are in full compliance with the law, and we have allowed today's law enforcement system to prove its effectiveness in investigating the crimes that were referred to today in this rostrum. Along with the way that I will do everything for the Head of Parliament, together with you, honourable colleagues, so that the rights of the national MPs in the course of the investigation will not be violated. And I think it's a fundamental question, because we have to be civilized about issues and investigations, including. I would like to point out one more thing and point out once again that yesterday we were tried to let go of a completely wrong path, and to the wisdom of the Ukrainian national deputies we found ourselves in order to do exactly what the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine require of us, and to decide on this application. So I'd like to say again to all the skeptics who wanted to lead this situation wrong yesterday, that we will never be able to discredit the Ukrainian Parliament, and we will never be able to manipulate such important issues. Dear colleagues, you are being questioned in accordance with the order of the day under registration number 0020, the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Japan on the Promotion and Protection of Investments. Report to the Deputy Minister of Economy. Economic development and Nephrodite trade, Maksim Evgenovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] If. I see. Stay put, Mr. Deputy Minister. Colleagues, if there are no changes and additions, are offered to vote on this decision in general without discussion. Is there no objection? Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:22:04]] For 289 Dear colleagues, we were unable to make a decision with you yesterday, we literally lacked five to six votes to include certain issues of order in the agenda. I would like to take another look at this question. I would like to point out that these questions have been submitted by factions. They're given to you. I'm offering you a package to head the decisions that are made in the daytime. Let's focus, please. Please concentrate, colleagues. It's just a start to get the committee work started. You will then be determined as to your abilities, opinions, suggestions, and voting for the subject of these laws. And now you're going to be able to direct the commission to the committees to do this work. Please take your seats, and I'm asking questions to be included in the agenda of the day session as scheduled for today. Please vote. In general, approve this list of draft laws. Including local elections and many other laws. Please, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Integrating into the agenda of the day session just as soon as possible. [[13:23:33]] For 249 Well, it's a real manifestation of what MPs want to do. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'm going to give the committee a commission to review, and they're going to start their work accordingly. All other proposals made by the national MPs, please hand them over to the faction leaders. On the Conciliation Council, faction leaders always make these proposals, are systematized and accepted. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. For reasons you can vote before, not after, you can say. Honorary colleagues, draft law, registration number 2492, draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Prepared by the Ministry of Justice, Cabinet of Ministers There is a proposal for the Cabinet of Ministers to consider this bill, 2492, in a simplified procedure. I'd like to make a statement. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:24:33]] For-182 Thank you, fellow national MPs. I invite you to introduce Sevostian Natalija Ilarionov, First Deputy Minister of Justice. Please begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u183	Good afternoon, distinguished Head, distinguished national MPs. Your view is on draft Act No. 2492 amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Anti-Corruption Bureau". In short, in view of the adoption of the Law on NAB, we need to put in place other legal instruments in order to have the concept of "anti-corruption bureau" in the legal field. The proposed law also provides for changes, such as defining the characteristics of labour relations through the participation of the employees of the National Bureau, establishing a ban on them, being members of political parties, and limiting their participation in the electoral process, and including the National Bureau in the number of public authorities involved in the fight against organized crime and national security subjects. The adoption of the law will allow legislation to be brought into compliance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. This proposal has also been accepted by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please have your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u184	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter. Yegor Sobolev, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u185	The committee recommends the adoption of a bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have half an hour and a large number of drafts. I have a request, if someone has a position on the speech, then speak. And if not, I propose a vote. And we'll assume that we've discussed two laws at the same time. Do you need a separate report? They're identical. Do you need it separately? Separately, well, it's okay. The bill 2492 on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is therefore put to the vote. It's the committee's proposal, on the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis. [[13:27:13]] For 226 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention very much. Whoever's out of the towers, please come back so we can complete the day's work. There are now important bills that need technical regulation on the anti-corruption bureau. So I urge you to return to the hall so that we have the required number of votes. Now we're going to consider Bill 2494. I also suggest that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support me. 2494. Short-term procedure. Please support the vote, colleagues. [[13:28:01]] For a hundred and Thank you very much. First Deputy Justice Minister Sevostyanov Natalija Ilarionovna is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u187	Dear national deputies, presiding officer! Your view is on the draft Law 2494 amending the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act and the Anti-Corruption Act. The purpose of the bill is to align Ukraine's laws with the Act on "Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance" and other laws, and to settle the issue of payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death or death in the performance of the service duties of the head office, the employee of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the member of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. This is as follows: On December 28, last year, a law was passed that amended articles 22 and 15 of the NAB laws and the prevention of corruption. In this way, there has been a double regulation that individuals will be able to obtain funds in connection with both the Social Security Act and the NAB Laws and the Prevention of Corruption. At the same time, it was excluded from the rules that provided for the right of persons at the same time who were entitled to various payments, to receive and choose only one of them. Thus, in view of the changes noted, in the event of the death or death of a given person, they will have the right to receive payments under both the General Compulsory Social Insurance Act and the anti - corruption laws and the NAB Act. The bill therefore proposes to exclude from these laws the provision for the payment of one - time financial assistance in the event of the death of the persons in question. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u188	Thank you very much. Egor Sobolev is invited to the report. We'll give him an opportunity to express his opinion to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u189	Colleagues, in this case, the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee disagreed with the government's initiative. The point is, if a detective of the National Anticorruption Bureau is killed, his family is now entitled to a large amount of material aid, 10 years ’ wages. The government proposes that this rule be repealed. We understand the government's desire to have a single social insurance system, but the idea of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is to create exclusions from law enforcement, to create an organ that will be independent, which will be effective, which will really start to fight, not "breath" corruption. And if there's a detective out there who's really going to persecute highlanders for corruption and don't give God anything to happen to him, then we're going to have his family keep this right to this big benefit. That's why we advise Parliament to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u190	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I understand this question needs to be discussed. Yeah? Then let's follow procedure. Please sign two for, two against. Please. Trelyak's Alexander, Petra Dustenka's Block, passes to Barney. Please turn on Barney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u191	Honorable MPs, the issues of social persons who protect the order and peace of our citizens, the protection of those who risk their lives for the sake of the peace of our people and the country, those who are now on a very difficult path, the cross road, the fight against corruption, which is the main evil of our nation, should be paramount, and this protection of persons must be guaranteed by law. So I ask you not to vote on a bill that will cancel the one-time payout in the event of health or loss, the death of an employee of the Anticorruption Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u192	Thank you. Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich gives the floor to the leader of the Radical Party Oleg Lášk, Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u193	Thank you very much. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, please tell us, the worse the soldiers who are currently fighting the Russian armies in Marijnka, if they do not let God die, the ten - year wage for the death of their family is not paid. Would you please tell the worse border guards who are today risking their lives to protect our country's borders? They don't get paid. Please tell me, what are the worst national guards who are risking their lives to protect the territorial integrity of our country? We've already created with you a separate pension legislation for MPs, for judges, for officials, that a normal person in a colossal community has spent all his life cancering the fields with 900-1000 dollars of pension, a teacher, a doctor-and-a-half thousand pensions, and a judge, a prosecutor, an official of 30,000 dollars of pension. Now once again we're saying that we have a special category of citizens even as important as anti-corruption fighters, let's give them a 10-year salary in case of loss, loss. Then I have a counter-offer: let's eliminate the U.S. Attorney General's Office, the U.S. Attorney's Office in general, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service and everyone in the world. Why, then, do we need them if all these monsters, where hundreds of thousands of people work, are unable to fight corruption and so forth? I think that the main thing in social security, the main thing in pension insurance, is justice, and that's equal to all conditions, with all due respect for future fighters with corruption. We want them to succeed, we want the results of fighting corruption, but it has to be equal, equal and fair for everyone, both in retirement and in social security. Otherwise, we create new castes that will have the privileges of a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u194	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front political party. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u195	Please give it to Teteruk Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u196	Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u197	The People's Front faction will support the adoption of this law, because we think it's necessary to rule out when some officials actually have a higher, let's say, motivation for getting more money. In fact, for the time being, we have people dying on the front and getting little money. And here we're going to pay 2 million 777,000. This is unfair. And that is why we will support this bill to restore justice in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u198	Thank you very much. The discussion was attended by all who wanted to express themselves. And now I'm going to the vote, reminding myself that the position of the committee is to reject. But I'm going to put the first one on the vote as a basis. And now I'm asking you very carefully. Bill 2494 is put to the vote: the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine" and "On Prevention of Corruption" is the basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, on the ground. [[13:36:22]] For-166 The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. And I'm going to put another proposal back on the subject of the legislative initiative. Thus, the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to Bill 2494 on the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine is made to vote. Please vote on who supports this proposal, please. [[13:36:59]] For-195 The proposal did not get the required number of votes either. Therefore, according to the Rules, the bill is rejected. And we're moving on to the next draft of Law 2178, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for measures to ensure the development of the Ukrainian natural-command fund). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please support her, please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[13:37:40]] For-141 I very much hope that the national MPs have not arrived. Because if we go into full procedure, we'll be working another hour. And so I'm going to re-vote my proposal to consider the bill in short notice. I very much ask everyone to vote carefully, please, for the summary procedure. [[13:38:12]] For a hundred and Thank you very much. The report invites the Ukrainian National Deputy of Kolesników Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u199	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow members of the National MPs, you know that, according to the Convention for the Protection of Biological Diversity signed by Ukraine, by 2020 our nation should create a system of conservation areas in Ukraine at least 17 percent. In fact, however, the area is three times smaller than planned, and what is the problem with natural reserves and national parks? In the creation or expansion of conservation facilities, the land of state - owned property is transferred to the permanent use of state - owned enterprises. In order to actually get the land, however, the reserves are obliged to compensate for the so - called damage, that is, to pay. Cash compensation to state-owned enterprises. According to expert estimates, respectable colleagues, consider that the amount is sometimes billions of dollars. First of all, natural-invention agencies will be given land, not by their own will, but on the basis of Presidential decrees. Secondly, the state form of ownership does not change during the granting of land to the natural-intelligence fund institutions. And thirdly, they just don't have the money. I'm going to point out that the project will avoid multimillion-dollar costs from the state budget for the natural-inventory enterprises. That's why we're proposing by amending the Law on the Natural Reserve and the Land Code of Ukraine to release the most important conservation institutions such as natural reserves, biosphere reserves and so forth from compensation. I ask you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u200	Thank you! The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to you, we are still moving away from our discussions on justice and politics. I want you to pay attention not to the authors, but to the content: the committee that I lead supports this bill, the ostrich thinks there are two biggest problems today to warn nature through the Natural Command Fund system. The first problem is the general funding system, and I have repeatedly stressed that, unfortunately, we are still still in the process of passing a bill tomorrow to remove the land tax from the reserves, because it was a frost that needs to be cleared, a university land tax, a preschool land tax. And until the second reading of the bill, which Nasirov was still in charge of, he voted that when I was in session, we couldn't vote for a month. We're ruining the entire humanitarian system because there's not one vote. So, first of all, I demand tomorrow that we put this on second reading. And the second problem that the authors are talking about today, and we're going to support them on the committee, is the so-called system of transfer or compensation. The President's order, for example, is to create a natural reserve, and it's into this kind of territory. There's a woodshed in this area, for example, whether it's a hunting farm or some other state-owned enterprise. They're sitting there, they're sitting there tonight, and they're saying, we're not going to hand it over to the natural-intelligence fund, because we're going to assume that the price of the issue is there, for example, 50 million dollars, and we're going to keep cutting down the forest and selling it illegally. Well, where does that reserve find these millions of bracelets? These are budgetary organizations and issues within the State Budget Fund. So our proposal is to support this bill. We've consulted with the government, the general idea the government supports, we'll work on the second reading and we'll make a good bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-03-m0.u202	Thank you for the address, dear colleagues. Is there a need to discuss whether everyone has been able to understand the substance of the bill? He can vote, right? Dear colleagues, I'd like to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We were asked by Mikola Volodymyrovich not to pay attention to authors, an important law. I'll ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I put, according to the committee's proposal, draft Law 2178 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the development of the Ukrainian natural-intelligence fund) as a basis. Please support the committee's proposal. On the ground, please. [[13:43:51]] For-179 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm forced to make a signal vote to see if the hall is capable of making a decision. There's an agreement about that, isn't there? Yeah, let's see if there's a room ready for further work. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for a signal vote to see if we have enough deputies in the hall. Everybody in? I would like to vote on the vote. Please take part in the vote and vote by reaffirming your presence. Please. [[13:44:40]] For 180. Thank you very much. We don't have enough in the room for a full vote. Dear colleagues, today has been a very important, responsible day. Despite the comments of many skeptics that the Supreme Council and the Coalition will not be able to pass this test, today the Supreme Council, members of the Supreme Council, have demonstrated the ability to make the difficult but necessary decisions for the state. So I call on everyone to work productively on the committees as well. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Fruitful committee work! Thank you.
