ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs, time to work. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. The heads of factions please influence the membership of their factions to join the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Secretariat I ask to inform the deputies and encourage them to enter the Hall. Dear colleagues, we're not yet enough to do productive work, so once again I urge all deputies to enter the session room, to take their jobs. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall that hasn't come in yet. We worked productively today before lunch, before us an equally important afternoon session, important bills that will stand from the very beginning of the work. So I urge you once again: please come into the hall, sit down, and we'll start our work in a minute or two -- reviewing the bill. Please inform the deputies to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the registration of the evening session. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:11:07]] Registered -335 Thank you. There are enough deputies to continue our work. I'm opening an evening session and I want to read two announcements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the first announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of the Interfractional Parliamentary Union of Ternopolščina. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zastavan Josipovich, was elected as head of the Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union of Ternopolščina. Let's welcome Roman Josephovich with his election. The MPs are not very active. Next announcement. In connection with the term of office of the coalition coordinator, Andrey Teteruk, the Coalition Council of Ukraine, appointed the European Ukraine Coalition Coordinator, the head of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party of the Ukrainian People's Party, Lushka Oleg Valeriovich. Please welcome him. Thank you, this is all the announcements that came to the fore.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u2	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we can move on to the issue of daytime order. At the suggestion of the Coalition Council, there is the following proposal: look now at Law 1546, this is about decentralization of architectural inspection functions. Then consider the bill, the registration number.). Consider Bill 2250. Coalition factions, I said, not the Coalition Council. Then consider Bill 2250 on the natural gas market, 2250. Then we have a number of serious laws related to energy efficiency -- 1313, 1409 -- but we can go back to that when we go through all three of these laws. And 1195, now we're going to look at it as well -- 1195, 1546 and 2250 -- the natural gas market. Is such an offer accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] So 1546 is the GASK, 2250 is the natural gas market, and we're still going to go 1195 and beyond. Is such an offer accepted? It's perfectly normal. Thank the author for that. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Consider: 1546 — GASK, 2250 — the natural gas market. And we start going on in the daytime: 1195 and so on. Is it accepted? Please, colleagues, support this proposal, please vote. Please support this proposal. Please support this proposal. They don't make it. They don't make it. I can see they don't make it. [[16:14:42]] For-191 Let's do it again. Let's do it again. A proposal for consideration. And then we go in the daytime, everything's gonna be fine. I think we'll work until we've exhausted the entire agenda. Please, colleagues, offer: 1546, 2250. Please vote, please support. And we're still going in the order of 11,95 and so on. Please support me. [[16:15:25]] For 222 I will. Well, let's do it again. This is the order of the day, and I can make this offer. We didn't make it. 1546, 2250 is the gas market, and then move on. Please, Your Honor, we are voting again. 1546, 2250, please vote again on the change. [[16:16:00]] For 242 Thank you, colleagues. 242 – decision taken. Please, 1546, draft law, second reading. An important anti-corruption law. I hope that he will now find support in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall -- and the functions of construction and architecture will be returned to the local authorities that people choose. I invite you to the report in the second reading of Peter Sabashuk, deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. On the rostrum, please. Peter Sabashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! Well, builders, as usual, go first. I think it's probably the first law to talk about decentralization of power. We haven't changed the Constitution yet, we haven't changed the laws yet, but the GASK law or the DABI law today is the first law that relates to the decentralization of power and the decentralization of architectural and building control. At its meeting on April 6, 2015, the Committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the decentralization of powers in the field of architectural and building control and improvement of urban legislation (No. 1546). A working group worked on the committee. To be honest, it worked hard because the question of decentralization has always been difficult. And the law that was passed on second reading by a working group that included inspection of the DABI, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and our own department of profile, and the national MPs, we had a compromise. Compromise is good. For the first time, we shared control and oversight. The supervision of architectural and building activities is passed on to local councils. All of it. Period. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And today neither the miscreant nor the mayor can say that I do not know how to build, where to build, or who to build. The city council is responsible for all of this. We leave the state to oversee the controlling organizations, which should be. I think that's the first thing we've done. The other one. We've passed it on or we're trying to pass it on to the project. practically thought of the first, second and third categories, but agreed that we could pass on the fourth category of complexity for construction. These are also engineering networks, such as architecture monuments. The architectural and historical monuments, so that we don't have the same thing that Kiev gives us there, let it take the decision of the council that's in place and controlling how it's done. I think that's the second question we've decided. Yes, there are some issues that are not agreed upon, and perhaps they will continue to harmonize for a long time. So the task force is continuing its work, and in these three months, which remains until the end of the session, I think we're going to agree on all the questions that remain, and we're going to put them in the room. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies, in amendments that haven't reached the law, to come to the task force and work on all those issues that may remain questionable. I told you everything. So I think, Mr. Head, I think today it's a matter of so much agreement that we can vote without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u4	Please, don't limit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, if necessary, I know that there are many who wish to overthrow this very law under the GASA.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u7	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u8	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u9	Almost all factions are gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u10	Thank you. To vote in the 1546 version of the committee, it was further worked out. Huh? In the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u11	In the second reading. But I'm asking you, gentlemen of the people's deputies, gentlemen of the people's deputies, I beg you, the law is logical, we're going to correct it as the law of the second reading, well, it just doesn't make sense. We've got a working group already.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, David Makarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, according to article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine, delegated powers are financed by the State Budget and, accordingly, the authorities of the State Architectural Building Control remain under the control of a state that violates the principles of deregulation and decentralization, which is not actually happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u14	I'll answer, can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u16	We talked a lot about this, but there is a question. Today, there is no DABI funding in the budgets until the new year. Today, if the local budget wants to open up the DABI, which should be due on September 1, they're setting up a development budget, they're funding themselves, but there's a question. There are many villages and cities that cannot and do not want to take office today. And so these powers will support the central DABI until things are passed on to the local level. So there's nothing in the way of today's opening up budget funding from September 1st from the development fund, from every city's budget development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Igor Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u18	Dear friends, we listened to the reporter’s talk and heard that the process of decentralization was under way. I have to say that it's not a decentralization process, it's just a return.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u19	Return, that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u20	The city's self-governance functions, which were unceremoniously taken four years ago. And I'm sorry it was done under the auspices of Vasil Kuibida. That's why we have to turn back. And not just to control illegal construction to control construction in the city. Little, then, we suggest that after reviewing this law, we do not decentralize, including the central authorities, but leave only supervisory functions. Thank you. We support this law completely and completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u21	Mr. Nasalik, what I'm saying is that the working group that will continue to work is seeing preparations from September 1st for the changes that will take place when the Constitution and the transfer of supervisory functions are changed, and I think we'll be able to arrange for the district councils when the district executions are formed. It's a question if we had a third question that we're looking at. So the task force is going to work further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u22	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Krivoshia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u23	I'm sorry, but for today, I can. After all, gentlemen, I beg you, let's make the amendments that we used to make. There is an organ, and the central supervisory authority is appointed, horse, central. It can't be any other way. And what I'm going to say is that today, at a transitional stage, it's impossible to pass the DAB on to all the villages. This body will perform its function until each head of the syllabus says, "What do I want to do?" Sir, please put the vote to the vote. The question is whether to vote or not, because we are going to talk about this law again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u24	Thank you, one minute. Everything. Please, Naughty People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. It's a very good bill. And it actually relates to the issue of deregulation in the first place, the faction of the People's Front is actually going to support this bill, and it thinks it's going to have to be delegated to places of actual authority. But I'd like to pay attention to 105 revisions, and after this amendment, we're norms on state architectural building supervision, and it's edited so that it significantly weakens the mechanisms for this kind of oversight, it can't be done. So I'd like to put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u26	Thank you. For confirmation, change number. Again, Curly? 105.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u27	I'd like to comment. We agreed with the Ministry of Regional Development and the commission itself. And the commission got as much as she wanted and enough to oversee it. Please, Mr. Clumsy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u28	You know, the amendment's right. Please, 105 for confirmation. I don't see the integrity of confirming it, but it's the MPs' business. Please confirm 105 revisions. [[16:25:43]] For-98 It's not over, it's down, 105. So, please, let's move on to Lechchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u29	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. First of all, it's a good thing that at least something is going on to fight against the building mafia in the country, this law is a small step in the right direction. But in fact, apart from this law, we need to fully review the relevant legislation, return public hearings to be mandatory, complicate the process of granting appropriate permits so that there is no vacchanal that is now in the great cities. But it's a good thing there's still a small step. I'd like to do some repairs, please. 72 my amendment, it says it's counted, but unfortunately, in the final version of the bill it's not included, maybe it's a technical error, I'm asking you to pay attention to the reporter. Once again, 72 amendments are written that it is counted, but there is no final bill. Please include, for this is a question that we have taken according to the appropriate declaration the standards that are in today’s declaration that are binding. And if they're not there, you don't accept a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u30	I'm asking you, Mr. People's MP, notice, I said that the task force is still working. And we have three more months for those extra MPs. But today, if we haven't accepted it, it's editorially included in other departments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u31	How's it going, Yuri? Second amendment, please. Please, one more minute, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u32	Dear reporter, I ask you to listen carefully. You, the reporter, have a table that says you've counted, counted, right, by the committee? And in the final version of the bill itself, there is no bill in the body. So you have a technical error. I'm asking you to take into account, under the transcript, that amendment 72 is counted, actually. As shown in the table. Do you understand what I'm saying or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u33	I understand what you're saying. But I'll find out, that's where it's accounted for. Because we still have a relationship with project organizations. And the liabilities of the project organizations are included; they are still included. Please, Mr. Levchenko. Well, let's put it to a vote, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u34	Stasuk, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u35	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In support of the bill, I actually think it's a legal issue, too, but it's very important. We make changes to other laws, and we also need to make changes to the Law on Local Self - Government. So I propose that part of the first article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine be supplemented by this. "The implementation of architectural and building control, the creation of structural units for architectural and building control, the appointment of managers of such organs." This means that we are formalizing this decentralization right now in the relevant law, and these rights for local authorities are set out in the Law on Local Self-Government. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u36	Mr. Head, I don't think this amendment will confuse us. You can vote. We're in. The committee is in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u37	What's the amendment number, once again, a national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u38	Introduce to the Law on Local Self-Government a paragraph on GASKI from Mr. Stasuk’s words.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u39	Look, colleagues, I think that worked with the NEU, with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, there were observations that we consider, there is a decision that was drawn up by the committee. It's all settled. If such changes are to be made in an elementary way, then we will share them with you. So now I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, your honorary colleagues, an important bill. Draft Law, second reading, 1546. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the decentralization of powers in the field of architectural and building control and improvement of urban legislation. This is the return of functions to local self-government. This is the real beginning of decentralization of services. In May we will vote on administrative services in conjunction with Minnesota. So there's a proposal to vote. Prepare, please, colleagues. Everyone, please be ready. Get into the other one. There is a proposal to vote in second reading and in general, taking into account the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority in paragraphs 2-6. I understand correctly, head of the committee? In paragraphs 2 to 6. Please vote on this proposal. Second reading and, in general, taking into account the observations of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office, as set out in paragraphs 2-6. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support this law. [[16:31:23]] For 306 It's a constitutional majority. My colleagues, I want to tell you that he's been knocked down several times in Parliament in the past, but we've proved to you that we're doing quality work. I want to ask all the experts who have worked to get his Head to sign, please, once again, to make sure that no one there makes any mistakes so that this law will be the one that awaits local self-government today. Thank you all for voting for this bill. Come on, colleagues. 2250 according to our decision, 2250 according to our decision. Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Questions. Please, I'm asking you all to calm down for a moment. It's a little hard. Thank you. 2250 draft Natural Gas Market Act, second reading. Please report. Let's all be careful, please, fellow national MPs. Please be careful. Please be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u40	Dear Mr. Head, your peers, the draft Natural Gas Market Act (Registration No. 2250), which was adopted on the first reading of March 5, 2015, is proposed for your consideration. I recall that the purpose of the bill is to create an effective, competitive environment in the natural gas market, taking into account the requirements of the third energy package, such as Directives 2009/73/EC on common rules for the internal market in natural gas and Regulation 715/2009 on conditions for access to natural gas transport networks. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has worked out proposals and amendments to this bill that have come from entities of the law of the legislative initiative. In total, more than 250 offers are made, including a total of 159, in part 5, 23 are taken into account and 66 are rejected. The amendments were not only discussed at the meetings of the Committee, with the participation of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Mr. Demchikin, the head of the NAK "Naftogaz", the expert environment, and with the participation of the head of Mr. Copac's Energy Co-operation Secretariat. Such representation allowed the committee to balance the proposed amendments as much as possible in accordance with the requirements of the third energy package and European practice for the creation of an effective competitive natural gas market based on openness and transparency. Before going to the amendment, I would like to point out that there are many rejected amendments that will continue to be reflected in the Gas Transport System Codes, the distribution system, the gas shelters, the installation of avenues that are regulated according to the rules of this law. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the large comparative table today, you have also been given a comparative table with the amendments of our colleagues, Yuri Lewchenka and Mrs. Kugel, who were further worked yesterday on the committee and some of them were accepted. As a result of the drafting of the bill before the second reading at the meeting of the Committee on 18 March 2015, a decision was taken to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on the natural gas market (registration number 2250) on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's decision, taking into account the relevance of the bill as well as the commitments made to adopt the bill arising from the Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy between Ukraine and the IMF. I would also like to request that the Committee, in conjunction with the Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct technical legal proceedings in preparation of the bill for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's also go to the authors of the amendments so we don't go after all the amendments, yes. Yuri Lewchenko. Attention, colleagues! Please, let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u42	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom. So I have two corrections. I'd like one at a time, and then another at a time. Amendment number 1 of the extra table. She was turned down on the committee, unfortunately, I now demand that she be put on confirmation. It's about what we're proposing, "Freedom" so that gas transport operators can be only legal persons who, 100 percent of their corporate rights, belong to the state, so that they can be exclusively state legal entities to stop any possibility of somewhere, I would stress, not de jure, but de facto privatizing the gas transport system and transferring it to private control. Please place this amendment on confirmation to see who is behind the state and who is behind the private oligarchy business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u43	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u44	Well, really, the committee was looking at this issue. And the decision to reject this amendment was unanimously supported, given that it was contrary to the requirements of the third energy package. Please give the floor to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u45	Please, there's an offer to confirm the amendment, isn't there? What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u46	Number 1 in the extra table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u47	Number 1 in the extra table. The amendment of Yuri Lewchenk. I'm betting on confirmation. And the committee's amendment was rejected. You heard the committee's position. [[16:37:55]] For-67 Unconfirmed amendment. Next. Another amendment, Yuri Levchenko. Then we'll move on to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u48	Lechenko, Freedom. I'm very sorry, and I'm very sorry that, unfortunately, there weren't even 70 deputies in the Supreme Council who would have secured the State's exclusive right to control the gas transport system. Well, you know, that's actually what I think it is, and it's a real assessment of the MP Corps of today's Supreme Council. I'd like to re-place my, now my second, amendment, also in the supplementary table where I propose that the state control the gas shelter operator. That is, so that the legal persons who control the gas shelters could be only those legal persons, one hundred percent of the corporate rights of which the state belongs. Once again, the point is that there will be no de facto privatization of Ukrainian gas shelters and transfer of control over the gas shelters to private oil companies. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u49	Please take the position of the committee, and we'll bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u50	The position of the committee is almost the same as that of the previous amendment. In addition, this is contrary to the requirements of the third energy package, underlining that this amendment contravenes the Ukrainian Act in force today "To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reform of the administration of Ukraine's Single Gas Transport System" dated 14.08.2014. This is therefore contrary even to our current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u51	Thank you. Is there a need to comment on Minpalevenergo? Please, Minpalevenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u52	Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the operator isn't actually going to be. According to the law, an operator will not own either a gas transport system or a storage facility or a storage facility. So to say that even if an operator has foreign equity in its share, it will allow not only to raise funds, technology, experience, world management, but ownership to remain state-owned. A hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u53	Thank you. For confirmation, change number. In the supplementary table, amendment number 2. Please confirm. The author is Yuri Levchenko. Committee position, ministries you've heard. Please confirm. [[16:40:55]] Z-70. I didn't get an amendment, 70 votes. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of amendment number 213. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because our colleagues believe that this amendment can be a result of a roadblock for the gas population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u55	Colleagues! Colleagues! There's a procedure. He took the people's word, got it. made an offer. You can say "disgusting" by voting. Please, 213. 213. To whom is the word for what? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, wait. Anton Gerashchenko, please. Before you give your word, please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u57	Listen, calm down, please. Listen to your fellow chairman of the committee, do not violate the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the amendment was considered by all members of the Committee on 18 March 2015. At the time of the discussion, none of the colleagues objected. In addition, consultations were held with the European Energy Secretariat, which expressed its opinion on this point, saying the following. That this issue is a matter for a legislative settlement, as we will decide by voting in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u59	Thank you. Minpalevenergo has anything to comment on? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u60	You want me to step back?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u61	No, you don't have to leave. Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u62	Deputies! What is Amendment 213? This is an amendment that will restore the right of ownership of the Ukrainian people to Ukraine. In 2012, Order 770 of the Cabinet of Ministers was adopted, which provided for the free transfer of property for billions of rubble, all gas distribution networks in cities. This was done in the interest of Dmitry Firthash's company. The amendment of the Deputy Xenjuk, who was threatened and for which a criminal case was brought, required that, if we accepted, all gas distribution networks be returned to the State so that further Firtash and others who wanted to be able to use them on a paid basis. If we do not now support this amendment, Firtash and the others behind it will continue to use all the gas distribution networks within the cities free of charge. We can't let that happen. I ask all parties to vote! This will be a test for the Ukrainian Parliament. I'd like everyone to support Amendment 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u63	Igor Nasalik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u64	Dear friends! I'm going to be adamant about this amendment if I get the answer to three questions. Question one. Mr. Anton Gerashchenko said that someone owns, no one owns, all underground, or transport is owned by the state, is not a lie, that is to be known. The other one. 30 percent of the gas distribution networks were built directly by people and no one else who collected funds and maintained gas. What is proposed in this amendment. That now they have to pay rent for their transportation networks. If you answer that question, I'm the first to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u65	Please write down these questions, comment and vote, prepare yourself. Next. Yegor Sobolev. Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u66	I have a huge request to the electorate, now to look at every MP. Every person who explains that there is no need to vote for this idea that this idea is bad, this is the person of Dmitri Firthash. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u67	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u68	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm talking to you. I want people, millions of people who don't know what the utility is paying for, to buy drugs, to understand that we are now voting for an amendment that will allow for the return of property stolen from the state. The billions that have been stolen from the people that have made the oligarchs who they are have to work for the interests of the state. So the Radical Party faction will support 213 amendments and the faction will support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u70	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This parliament changes the country, starting with the budget, and then several other laws. We're putting an end to the oligarchy of this country. I know that a lot of people don't like it, I know that many factions now have problems collecting all the votes. And we may have such problems. But as the head of the faction, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment in order to continue the attack on the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u71	Yes, dear colleagues, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u72	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, if objectively approached, without this amendment and the subsequent amendment supported by the committee, the amendments made by Alexandra Cugel, this law provides that the lies will in fact remain in the hands of Firthash. This law will mean that Firtash, not the State, will continue to dictate its terms by gas distribution systems. That's why the moment of truth came. If we fail this amendment now, it would mean that the law is actually broken. Our faction strongly insists that Parliament support the 213 amendment, and we now anticipate that it will now be confirmed and amended by Alexandra Kugel, no less important that we all confirm and support this amendment. This is going to be the moment of truth in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u73	Thank you. All right, we can vote, right? As far as I can tell. Please prepare for the proposal of the People's Democratic People's Deputies to place 213 amendments on confirmation. You've heard the position of all the MP factions. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:49:13]] For 277 277. Let's move, let's move on, fellows. Let's move on. Please, what are some other amendments? Is there an offer, colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u74	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u75	None. In general. In the second reading, you will see a bill for voting, registration number 2250 of the Natural Gas Market Act, adopted on second reading and as a whole, with an approved amendment to the committee. And it was said from the rostrum that the technologist in the preparation was going to carry out technical legal remedies when preparing for signing. Yeah? With these proposals in the second reading, I generally put it to a vote. Please vote. [[16:50:28]] For 290 290 -- decision taken. Next up, colleagues, let's move. Please, I have an offer, colleagues. Let's make a decision now that we're not breaking up until we've exhausted the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, you can. Parliament is open. Not the norm, the norm. Parliament can make this decision on the procedure. Come on, colleagues. Colleagues, we can go to the market, we can go to the market. Please, let's go from faction to fraction per minute. Yuri Lucenko of the Petra Dustenka Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer that our coalition colleagues support, that the truth is I haven't talked to everyone, but I think we'll find support. It's a clean Thursday. We've got a good job. We clean the country, we clean the economy, we clean the karma. Let's make a decision that we're voting to the end of the day, and tomorrow we have a weekend and we're going to church. I ask you to support this decision. It results both for us and for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u77	Colleagues, look, a minute. Let me put this to a vote. Continue work, not hold meetings tomorrow, but engage in religious activities. For the vote, it's an offer. The proposal to vote for exhaustion. I'll bet you a vote on your job offer. Concentrate, please, on the vote! Colleagues, offer. Lucenko made an offer. Today we are working towards the exhaustion of the order of the day. Tomorrow is a religious day, Parliament is not working. Vote, fellows! Come on, please support this proposal. Voting, voting. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We didn't make it? We didn't make it. [[16:53:02]] For 185 Let's do it again. All right, calm down. So please take your seats. Capplin, you're not the faction manager. Please, colleagues, please concentrate. Calm down, colleagues, calm down. Voting, voting, colleagues. Jury Vitaliovich Lucenka's offer. A puppet offering that sounded. Vote. Vote. We vote yes, we support the offer of Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. [[16:54:01]] For 204 Almost 204. Yuri Lucenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Easy, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. What are you all yelling at?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that Ukraine is an Orthodox country. And this week is the Passionous Week when Jesus Christ our Lord God suffered, and for our sins he was crucified for our human sins with you. And tomorrow, there is an opportunity for each of you and me, including at least a portion of my sins, to meet with the electorate, to help the needy, the suffering, the disabled, the orphans -- all those who lack attention. So let us today vote on laws, a series of very important laws, including monetary loans, including defence, including other important laws. And tomorrow with the Lord God unto men, with the word, with prayer. And stay calm, look around you. Life goes on for like a minute. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer today to work out the order of the day. That's the first offer. And the second offer. We'll vote the second one later. Let us now separate two proposals for the end of the day and for tomorrow. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what you said. Today, before the day’s order is exhausted. This is my proposal for a vote. Today, work until the end of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] And after tomorrow, we're staying. Ready to vote? Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u80	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! From what I understand during the consultations, a number of colleagues tomorrow plan not to paint eggs but to listen to the government. Therefore, I now propose to vote on the work before the day’s order is exhausted. — Dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u81	And tomorrow everyone chooses their role: either eggs or government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u82	Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Colleagues, please, with respect to the continuation of the work until the end of the agenda today, please vote. Does it support, yes, Vlasenko, this position? Then I'll give it to you, after that. One minute. One minute, stop voting, please, Sergey Vlasenko, one minute. And Oleg Berezuk a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're really an Orthodox state, so there's a proposal today on Clean Thursday to work out all the issues of the day's order, and tomorrow to atone for our electorate. But in the south, atone for the Supreme Council, working on the laws, and in the other half, please, in the district, with voters anywhere. So there's an offer for today to decide to work to the end by deciding all the agenda issues and tomorrow to work on the schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u84	Thank you for repeating your offer. Oleg Berezuk a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u85	It is heartwarming to know that the MP Corps is so pious and praiseworthy of God that it is. The only problem is that work is not a sin. Another problem. The boys on the front work tomorrow, celebrating. So today's proposal is to work as long as it takes, to exhaust all the legislation, to work half the day tomorrow, and then all of us go to the payroll, and we're all in line until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u86	I'm willing to vote on the motion to vote before the agenda is exhausted. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:58:53]] For 214 With regard to the exhaustion of matters of the order of the day. No, colleagues, listen. Work today until the issue of order is exhausted. Not everyone understood. Once again, we're working today until we review all the laws, okay? Suggestions. Please vote. [[16:59:22]] For 215 Don't you want to work? All right, all right! We're moving on to the law. Although I think everyone could be doing a good job today. I don't know what the problem is. What's the problem? [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, once again, if we vote to work now, I will now put the Friday issue to the vote. Please, once again, I am proposing to work towards the exhaustion of the agenda. There are many important questions that are still in the order of the day of our session: and open public data, both on medication and so forth. Please vote, please support this proposal. It's better now, I think. Well! [[17:00:21]] For 228 Yes! Thank God! This is the position of true workers. Moving on, 1195, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards the terms of the return), 1195. National MP Rizanenko. Can you calm down? Please! There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. Decision taken. Please, please. Colleagues, please report the law. I would ask you all to be quieter. One minute, my respectable fellow national MP! People's deputy Gordjeev! National MP Gordjeev, with great respect, please arrange a hearing process there! National MP Vlasenko, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please, pay attention! I ask you to listen more carefully to your colleague so that it will be quieter in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, you are now invited to do another great and decisive thing. It is said that many important things have been done in this Council. Today, a step has been taken to demonopolize the fragmented gas market. And today you have something very important to do for the financial sector, for the banking sector, which has so many complaints and so many complaints, but so little, unfortunately, until this Council is done. Law 1195 proposes that the terms and conditions of the return be arranged, the term deposits. The operating system, the Civil Code says that, despite the fact that deposits are on demand or deadline, another norm of the same Civil Code says that any contribution should be returned to the first requirement of any individual. It would seem to be all very well, but what does this lead to? Seventy percent of the liabilities of the banking system are contributions from individuals and banks finance long-term loans with such short money on demand. As the market grows and deposits -- there's only a deposit inflow -- everything's very good, but in 1998, 2004, 2008, 2014 -- it's just starting to drain and panic, every bank can't pay 80.70 percent of its liabilities, and every bank becomes insolvent and insolvent. Why are banks in the West stable in the Western system? Because the course is returned only after the deadline has been completed. Can I? only after the deadline. The bill therefore proposes to establish that deposits that, on demand, return to the first requirement, deposits that are due only after the end of the term or, if otherwise not provided by the contract. That is, if the contract provides for a permanent return, it can be done. This will allow us to stabilize the banking system for the future. In order for no one to worry, the bill does not apply in any way to the contributions made earlier. These rules will apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u88	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u89	These rules will apply exclusively to the contributions that will be made after the bill becomes effective, and this is very important. The bill is supported by the National Bank, investor associations, the Banking Committee, and there were no comments to it except. One proposal came today, and I would like the Radical Party of Laska, who made this proposal, to make it sound. This is to article 106o, part four: leave it unchanged. We suggested a little technical change, except for the part "unless otherwise established by the treaty." The Radical Party proposes to leave this part unchanged. I'd like them to confirm. Next. I would like to suggest that we hear the National Bank about the importance of the bill. And I propose to vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Yes, taking into account the amendment proposed by the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u90	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Spinov. Ah, Ruslan Knyazevich, please head of the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u91	I'm not the head of the subcommittee, he's just missing for a good reason. At its meeting on February 11, 2015, the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered a draft Law amending certain legislative acts on terms of return (number 1195) from December 2, 2014, submitted by the national deputies Rizanenko and Bilkova. According to the Bill's Explanatory Note, the goal is to establish a stable banking system by regulating the mechanism for creating a resource base for the banking system. In order to achieve this goal, the authors propose to amend articles 1060 and 1065 of the Civil Code and article 13 of the Law on Securities and Stock Market, according to which the bank's customers will be entitled to receive deposits and interest on them under the term of the contract upon the conclusion of the contract, in contrast to the current rule that, inter alia, the natural person contributors may receive their own contribution or part thereof at the first request. The timely return of this contribution and the accrual of interest on this contribution may be possible only if it is provided for under the terms of the bank’s fixed-term contribution contract. The National Bank of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill. The Supreme Council Committee on Financial Policy and Banking also supports its adoption. In line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill is given as a result of its consideration in the first reading and it is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The committee, after considering all relevant materials, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain legislative acts under number 1195, submitted by the national deputies Bilkova and Rizanenko, to be adopted as a basis. In the course of the discussion, members of the committee noted the need to anticipate the possibility for investors to demand a timely return of the funds invested to the bank’s term in exceptional cases of serious illness, the death of one of the family members, the situation that put their family in a difficult financial situation, and so forth. Members of the committee are of the view that it is appropriate to establish that if a investor requests a contribution to the term of the contract, the bank makes a contribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u92	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u93	The bank makes payments within 30 days of the submission of such a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u94	Thank you. Sign up for two, two for the other. Sign up! Two for, two against. Gerasimov Arthur, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u95	Please pass the word to the national deputy Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u96	People's deputy, Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u97	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction considers this bill to be one that really contributes to the stability of the banking system. The very stability depends on how clearly and clearly the responsibilities of all parties are laid down. In the banking system, they are investors, banks, and creditors. It is this bill that will help all parties to meet their obligations in a timely and contractual manner. Then we ask you to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u98	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u99	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Look, in principle, we have a position like this. Banks are still well protected today. At least those bank owners who felt protected before we passed the law, which now awaits them both criminal and material responsibility. We've always stood on what citizens and investors should be. And to be honest, at first we have this law at the faction that caused an extraordinary discussion, but then we got into the text of it, and I can say that if at first we took it very seriously with fear that it would apply to those treaties that were made before the beginning of this law. So we've learned that in the final positions there is a rule that this applies exclusively to contracts that will be signed after this law enters into force. It means that both the bank and the citizen who invests the money there will be aware of the conclusion of their contract, that the citizen will not have the right to withdraw his money. Including, we have seen that there are rules in the text of the law that foresee that this will not be an exclusive form of contract and that citizens will have the right to choose whether or not such a form of contract, or another form of agreement, by which they will be able to make their contribution in a timely manner. In view of that, we believe that this bill can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u100	Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u101	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Society, now everybody's very concerned about the country's financial system, so that, by the way, it's controlled by almost completely oligaric capital. And somehow it's not very concerned about Ukrainian citizens who don't have access to their deposits in fact. And now you want to make it even more difficult to access their legitimately earned, blood-earned money. You know, the banks we have today are still the strong side in deposit agreements, given the limitations of bank customers' rights. The bank has more ability to dictate the terms of the contract to the investor, especially if the investor is a natural person with a small contribution. And here you're offering even more rights to give these same oligarchic banks. Well, let's start with financial education among the people so that they know what's going on in the hall, because today they're making contracts that no one can even read. First, you enter a normal responsibility for banking fraud, and then you can think about it. We are definitely against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. I understand that the discussion is over. And we will be able to determine the bill by voting. So there's a committee proposal for this bill to be adopted as a basis. I'm going to put this motion to the vote first. Puts the vote to the vote. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, we're going into the hall. The draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (as regards the conditions for the return of fixed-term deposits), No. 1195, is put to the vote. The bill is voted on as a basis. Supporter, please vote. [[17:12:35]] For 217 Thank you. We haven't been able to vote. I'm going to ask the national MPs, who are coming out of the hall as a whole, to return to their jobs. And we have to vote for the return first. And only after that will I be able to put the vote back on the table. I see we haven't made it. Is everyone in yet? Also, please pull up, pull up, national MPs. I see everyone in their workplaces. And that's why I'm voting first for the return to vote on Bill 1195. So whoever supports the proposal to return to the vote, please support. Please vote. Vote! [[17:13:41]] For 226 So we're back, we're back. Now let's calm down, let's concentrate. And now I am voting again on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on terms of return (No. 1195) as a basis. Please determine by vote. Vote, please. [[17:14:32]] For 226 The law gained the necessary number of votes. And we're moving on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's work more systematically and then we can finish work not at five o'clock in the morning, but much faster. I very much ask you not to go into discussion for once, we have a huge agenda. We've passed the law very well, let's move on to the next one. So I'm betting on Bill 2171. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on access to public information in the form of public data. It's a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Ssumar Victoria Petrovna, please. Where's the committee head? Is there anyone who can report it? The deputies for this bill? We're going through it well until the reporter gets back. Then we'll be back when the reporter's back. Then the next bill, 2172. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Access to Information on Budget Indicators in the Format of Open Data. Second reading. Reports the head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Viktorovich. Please turn on the microphone. Members of the Chamber would like you to calm down, concentrate, and work without noise. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u103	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Questions prepared Bill 2172 for second reading. The bill had 11 proposals, most of which were aimed at resolving the issues raised during the first reading of the bill. All the proposals were dealt with by the President's Administration, with the Ministry of Finance and taken into account in whole or in part in the final edition. The main task of the amended bill is to save the changes to article 28 of the Budget Code, which took effect on 4 March this year under Act No. 176 on the expansion of the list of available budget information. Thus, in the final draft of the bill, it is proposed that the publication be made public by each chief authority on his official budget requests website, passports and reports on the implementation of such passports. To establish that the information on the budget is published in the form of open data in accordance with the Public Information Act. And the terms and conditions of access to information on the use of public and local budgets are defined by the Law on the Open Use of Public Funds. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council bill 2172 to adopt, on second reading and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals proposed by the committee, the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u104	Excuse me, is this the same Sumar?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u105	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u106	Oh, that's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u107	This is no different, Mrs. Alexandro. I would like to address the Head and say that if we vote in favour of this law, we also have to support the bill that Mrs. Sumar was to present. And if necessary, the deputy head of the President's Administration could. 2172, to the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u108	Thank you. What's the offer? Please give me a minute to speak for Alexandra Kugel. But probably from the place, because there's a reporter. Please, Alexandra Kugel, one minute to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u109	Dear friends, I would like to point out that if we vote in favour of Mrs. Sumar's bill 2171, which she has to report, we support it. But please include the amendment made by Kugel and Alexeyev in part of the mistake made by the Supreme Council in adopting Bill 1580, where it did not show that the authorities, local self-government, were exempt from payment for the granting of an extract from the state register. This is the law of two deputies. And we agreed with Mrs. Sumar and the Freedom of Speech Committee that she would accept in this bill. It's a bill on access to information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u110	Okay, then I'm going to ask you how we're going to deal with this situation. Who is ready to make an offer to act? Please, the reporter, a minute of replication, suggest how we can deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u111	There is a proposal from the National Deputies, considering that this is already the second reading, to unify the two bills because one is derived from the other, and to accept. Putting one vote at a time and one vote at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u112	Thank you. Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u113	In 2171, with the rightful hand of Kugel and Alexeieva, which you heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u114	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking for your attention! As soon as the committee head Victoria Sumar is contacted, she will be in five minutes. The reporter also asks that these two bills should be considered with each other. Do I get it right? Can we consider another bill, wait for Victoria Sumar to arrive, she will report it, and then we will vote for both bills, taking this report into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just got off the phone with the committee head. She said that her presence was necessary for important amendments. So let's take this situation into account, and I very much ask the reporter to return to his seat right now. We'll consider the next bill. Victoria Sumar will return, and from the moment she returns, we will return to those bills immediately. There's a general acceptance, that's the truth, there is. Thank you for understanding. Then I now announce the next bill. I have an orderly bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (restructuring foreign currency liabilities into my purse) (second reading). I'm now announcing this bill, and when there's a reporter, we'll go back to 2171 and 2172. I now invite the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Nasirov Roman Mikhailovich. Please, Nasirov Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u115	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy has been working on a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (restructuring foreign currency liabilities into bracelets) (registration No. 0939). I would like to remind you that this bill was adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. The second reading was followed by two amendments made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Zenzerski, who modify the draft of the bill adopted in the first reading, but they fully preserve its purpose and purpose. I would like to remind you that the draft of the first reading of the bill suggested making appropriate changes to the corporate tax. However, Act No. 71 on Tax Reform, which came into force on January 1, 2015, excluded the articles to which the changes had been envisaged. In this connection, before the second reading, the committee took into account the need to introduce the first reading of the bill into the valid rules of the Tax Code and decided to change the title of the bill, amend the rules of the Tax Code on the Income of Individuals in the part of the exemption from the taxation of the foreign currency debt by banks, and make some changes to the fixed term without the expectation of debt. A second reading edition of the bill (registration number 0939) was agreed with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine and the Independent Association of Banks of Ukraine. The committee proposes to adopt a second-reading bill (registration number 0939) as a law as a whole. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u116	Thank you. So, once again, all of the committee's amendments are accepted. So all the amendments proposed are agreed upon by the committee. Are there any amendments that are not agreed upon by the committee? Please turn on the microphone. The Secretariat, please turn on the microphone. Stashuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, the law, of course, is very progressive and we support it. But I would like to make it clear that we have people who can take advantage of the opportunities offered by this law. Thus, we have limitations there, we suggest that we do not give the right to restructure our debts to individuals. This is so because the debt of a natural person is forgiven by the creditor, except for the debts associated with such a creditor and the persons who are present, were with such a creditor in a labour relationship. And here we're confusing two categories of people. Indeed, if there are individuals who are in a relationship with a creditor, this law should not apply to them. And if there are persons who have been or are in a working relationship, who is? This is a series of co-workers of banks, cashiers, economists, and somehow we're putting them into a category of people who can't restructure their currency loans. I don't think it's right, they don't deserve it, they're thousands of families. And I'd like to suggest that you put it in the same line as him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u118	Thank you. Please, a replica for Nasirov Roman Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u119	In general, we have discussed this issue at a committee meeting, but I propose to vote as suggested by the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u120	So I understand that the amendment was not accepted by the committee. What is the number of this amendment? Is it not shaped as an amendment? If it wasn't drafted into an amendment, then I propose to vote on the bill in a second reading as a whole. Is there any backup? Then I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities to bracelet No. 0939 on second reading and in general. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. Please, we vote, please. [[17:28:21]] For 256 Thank you for your support. Victoria Sümar came to the hall, as we agreed, and we're going back to the consideration of Bill 2171. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of Politics, Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, there's an emergency in the people's deputies. Your attention is given to Bill 2171 of this amendment to the Public Information Act, prepared by the President of Ukraine within the framework of the Reform Council, and supported by the public, it is about the opening of data registers, their publication and the provision of public information in accordance with the Public Information Act. You remember that the Access Act was a major breakthrough in the openness of public authorities, but, nevertheless, the registers are not directly applicable. And this has become an element of abuse for different officials, for local self-government authorities, because there seems to be too much data in the registers. However, it is clear that today's technical capabilities allow for the release of all of this data. Thus, a second reading to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy received more than 20 amendments. Some of them were counted. I have some disagreements and suggestions to read. First, the committee generally supported Amendment 1 of National Deputy Sumar, but on 2 April 2015, the President signed the Ukraine Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of business conditions. Among other things, this Act amends the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. In this regard, it is suggested that we now bring the law under consideration into line with the law signed by the President. So for the transcript, I read, "For the purpose of regulating the new law, number 191-8, Amendment No. 1 of Sumar to reject in relation to the loss of relevance. In order to bring the relevant provisions of the bill into line with the new law, number 191-8, paragraph 3 of the first paragraph of section 1 and delete; paragraph 2 of section 1 of section 1 of the bill should be amended to read: "The first part of article 22 should be completed with the words "including in the form of open data in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Access to Public Information". It's for the stenographer. Also for the transcript, please add: chapter I to complete with a new paragraph 9 of this content: to amend article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, Information from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Part two is as follows: "The public authorities and local self-government authorities, natural and legal persons are exempt from the administrative fees of the administrative assembly during the conduct of the national registration of the rights created and registered for the conduct of the state registration of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u122	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u123	persons defined in paragraphs 18, 29, 34 of article 4 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree on State Customs. Part three of article 29 should be supplemented by a new paragraph: “State authorities, local self-government authorities are exempt from paying for the granting of an exemption from the State Register of Rights in the course of the State Register of Rights, this will significantly facilitate the lives and organs of local self-government, and the possibility of obtaining data from the State Register of Rights.” So the committee's proposal is to support the bill in the second reading and in general, the committee with the amendments mentioned, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u124	Thank you. Colleagues, a table of repairs is given out. Is there a need to discuss it? None. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, an important bill. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning access to public information in the form of open data, which was an extremely important draft of the law, was further developed in the second reading. You have heard the report of the committee, so it is proposed that the committee take it into account in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u125	With the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u126	With the amendments made, which were sounded and taken into account by the committee. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote, and open data is an important anti-corruption step. Please invite the national deputies to vote. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready. Please vote 2171 in second reading and in general, taking into account the information announced by the committee’s head and in accordance with the committee’s decision. Please vote. "For." [[17:34:14]] For 279 Decision taken. Next is a related draft law, second reading 2172: draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on access to information on budgetary indicators in the form of open data. We're voting on him. He was reported to be connected. Accept it as a foundation and as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u127	Oh, that's a second reading! It's a second reading. Please vote in the second reading and in general in the committee. [[17:35:13]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, the draft Law is being submitted to your consideration. We've been through it. Registration No. 2550: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (for the term of validity of the bill). There is a proposal to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure, honourable colleagues. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[17:35:57]] For 197 Please, National Deputy Janicko Vasil Petrovich. Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u128	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The law, which has been discussed in Parliament, has the following problem. As we know, last year the Supreme Council voted in favour of a very important and necessary reformist law on the prosecution, which launched a series of pro-European reforms in this forceful power. Sadly, the truth is that the reform of local prosecutors was not carried out in accordance with this law. Regrettably, today’s new Attorney General notes that it is impossible to do so in a few weeks that remains pending the entry into force of this law. This will result in legal chaos. What do I mean? Any investigator from the U.S. Attorney General's Office will work in an illegal department, because he won't comply with the Procurator's Act, which will take effect on April 26th. Then, at the council of all the factions of the coalition here in the Supreme Council, and then the President of Ukraine, with the participation of the representatives of the Henprocuratorial Authority, decided to continue the implementation of this law by the end of this year. Nevertheless, coalition colleagues believe that this is a long time. Okay. As one of the authors of this law, I propose to postpone the entry into force of the Procuratorial Act until September 1st. At the next plenary session, we would like to spend the whole day with the police, internal affairs agencies, and the prosecutor’s office. And it's a complex decision to make with reformist laws. Unfortunately, in two weeks left, and in fact in one plenary week, it is no longer possible to do so, so we ask the prosecution to postpone until September 1. If it's the procurator's law, it's a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u129	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u130	If the bill proposed by colleagues to smile at factions 2404-1 comes early, this reform will certainly start not on September 1st, but on the date adopted by the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask that you now support this bill as a postponement of reform and that next plenary week we begin to discuss a deeper law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u131	Thank you. Please report to the committee: Ruslan Knyazevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Ruslan Knazevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why are you yelling like that? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u132	Thank you, Mr. Head. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of 9 April 2015, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice had before it at its meeting a draft Act amending the Law on Public Prosecutions with registration number 2550 from 03.04. In 2015, submitted by the People’s Deputies Janicki, Kubivi, and Lucenk. According to an explanatory note to the bill, it was designed to create conditions for a system-wide comprehensive approach to reforming the State's law enforcement system and to ensure that the work of the updated prosecutor's office, the new investigation authorities and the transfer to such authorities, from the prosecutor's office, of the investigator's authority to prevent any law enforcement function from being carried out. In order to achieve the goal, the author proposes to postpone the entry into force of Ukraine's new Procuratorial Act. The main scientific and expert management of the apparatus considers that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made. In connection with the above-mentioned committee, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act of 2250. According to the results of the first reading, accept as a basis and as a whole, in accordance with Part One, paragraph 1, of Part One, part Two of Article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by changing the words and figures "January 1, 2016" into words and figures "September 1, 2015." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u133	Thank you. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Anna Hopko, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u134	Please give me the word of Captain Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u135	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u136	Thank you, colleagues, good evening. Colleagues, I want to say clearly and frankly that the adoption of this law is a failure of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We're trying to stay with you again in the 36th year, Stalin's style attorney's office. That's a fact. There is no way we can get rid of this and there is no way that we can make a responsible decision that this reform must be brought to an end. In fact, I want to tell you that today there is a bill developed by all coalition factions that provides a clear recipe to correct the situation that the previous two prosecutors have created and have actually failed to prepare the entry into force of the new Procurator's Act. This law 2404-1, it gives this clear recipe, and it doesn't require any suspension of the prosecutor's office for a month. It gives you a specific formula. Colleagues, I very much ask you, the only consensus we see here. In order for you to be able to participate in this, complete and adopt this bill in a peaceful way. We can adopt the law that Mr. Lucenko just presented, but with an amendment by June 1, 2015. During this time, we adopt Bill 2404-1 and allow the reform to work. Please. The people who brought you here to Parliament and brought us to Parliament trust you. And they expect this law to work. He is one of the highest priorities. Majdan was behind the reform of the prosecutor’s office and the reform of the court. We've already failed the vessel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u137	Thank you. Please, Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party. Mosiyczuk, National Deputy of Mosiyczuk, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u138	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I'm first elected National Deputy. But first, I see what happened today: for the first time, we ignored the Rules of Procedure of the Committee of Law Enforcement, where I work as my first deputy, and Yuri Vitaliyovich, who represented this law, is a member of this committee, was put away somewhere because they were afraid of the subject-matter discussion. Perhaps Yuri Vitaliyovich forgot how recently he was in the Syrian chamber of the Lukyanovski S.I.O. and forgot that the criminal Soviet system of the prosecutor’s office must be destroyed and destroyed only by law in force. Once, two, three, we continue to have this monster, we can't do that. That's why we fully support the self-help colleagues. It is only necessary to postpone the law in order to bring the Prosecutor’s Law into force. Today there was already an attempt by the judges to set up, now to rescue the Soviet prosecutor’s office, and then the Soviet police would edit it. It wasn't the Celestial 100 heroes who died for it, it wasn't the revolution, it wasn't our brothers on the eastern front. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u139	Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland. Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! I support Igor Vladimirovich Mosiyczuk, who just said that he was really surprised by this document. Do you know what I mentioned? In the last call, my colleagues, too, who worked on the seventh call, remember me, they also tried to force me to hold a committee that approved Laws 16.01, and they followed me the same way, and they also told me about it, and we didn't do it. So, unfortunately, it's happening again today, but in such a written way, even those people didn't allow it. That's too bad. It's a shame we put two bills into the agenda yesterday. And they're both alternate. And we were promised, we were promised, that there would be the conclusion of the Science and Experimental Authority under this law, and 2404-1. It's fair, it's regular. The team was given 2404 in the evening, because 2550 is required. That's not fair. So we think we can postpone for a month. But in the first reading it was adopted today 2404-1, it goes into effect in a month and then the prosecutor's office starts working as it should. Otherwise, it's the preservation of general supervision and investigation in the Soviet-type prosecutor's office. Colleagues, the Fatherland faction will not vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u141	Thank you. Please, Valery Pisarenko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, in fact, when we talk about reforms, we are actually putting our whole country on display today as a country that is not fulfilling its obligations first. The Law on Public Prosecutions was indeed one of the fundamentals of our movement towards implementation and the pursuit of some European standards. What we're saying today. We're talking about failure to carry out our homework, and the Prosecutor's Office Act needs to be postponed. Someone says, six months, someone says, three months. But actually, the question is different. And who will guarantee that in a month, three months from now, this path will be passed? Let's take this as a responsible approach. We call here the Attorney General or whoever is responsible for this reform in the Attorney General's Office. Let them show a plan of action to implement this law. Today we put on June 1st, and the day before that comes, they'll say again, we're not ready. The legal system will be destroyed tomorrow. Not long ago, everyone here under applause adopted the Righteous Judgment Act. We talked about the fact that it's impossible to adopt a law in which thousands of amendments are made and that they're trying to vote here in five minutes. Today, the Venice Commission says that we do not get any fair trial because we all run away without taking into account the procedures established by the Rules of Ukraine and in general common sense. Because, first of all, dear friends, we need to read what we accept. And today, the proposal to transpose the Public Prosecutor’s Law is a proposal to transfer all of our commitments not only to society but to our Western partners. So before you set a date before you enter into force, think about how you can get to that date before you can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u143	Please refer to Yuri Lucenko. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, considering that I was so fond of being mentioned, hinting that I had forgotten something about S.I.S.A., I will. I didn't forget anything about S.I.S.O., didn't forget anything about the police, didn't forget anything about the D.A.'s office. But I didn't forget the arithmetic. To hold conferences of prosecutors by April 26 to form local prosecutors in areas and areas, and more in Ukraine, is impossible. And whoever doesn't now support the transposition of the law has to understand that he of 26 stops the fight against crime in Ukraine because the prosecutor's office will be plunged into legal chaos. What I'm proposing is called an "emergency" in jurisprudence. It's a condition of delay. If we adopt Law 0424-1 and it goes into effect, for example, on May 10th, the reform will start on May 10th. We'll take it on May 20th, it'll be May 20th. But that doesn't mean anything. We don't stop reform. But we don't want the investigation against all criminals to just stop 26.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u145	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u146	Only because someone wants a deeper law. But it can't be accepted in the first and second readings until the 26th. It's just impossible to do that. Yeah, you can look for extremes who didn't do it from the previous procurators. But you have to admit the reality. The D.A. needs to be suspended, and we need to adopt a deep law next plenary week. And I'm asking you not to look for enemies here, and not to think that someone is stopping reforms. We're just realists who carry out reforms, not on paper, but concrete in difficult life.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u147	Thank you, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Draft Law registration number 25. Fatherland, one minute, please. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u148	Volodymyr Borisovich, I address you. We had a three-hour council meeting yesterday. And I'm asking for confirmation by the other coalition factions: we agreed, if we don't vote on Law 2404-1, we're going to postpone the consideration of this law. Let's not lose the vote. Or we're taking a break right now, there's a committee, a profile committee that's directly looking after and looking at 2404-1, they're willing to do it. And we're voting on the Bill of Jury Vitaliyovich, we're adjourning until June 1st as a last resort, it's a month and a half, we're voting in the first reading 2404-1. And there'll be consensus in the room, and then we'll get the votes we need, not 226, but almost 300. This is the path that allows us to solve this issue. So let's agree on these arrangements somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u149	Thank you. Please, Oleg. Give me a minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u150	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the coalition leaders who have entrusted me with being the coalition coordinator. I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that our coalition is strong so that we can have a very clear interaction with the President, with the government and the parliamentary coalition, because this is a guarantee of the country's unity and development. We will do our best not to give a rematch to Yanukovich's gang and not allow the aggressor Putin to rub our home country. As far as the Procurator's Bill is concerned. So, I confirm, at 11pm last night, we've agreed that if we don't have a common position under a very important prosecutorial law, we don't bring this law into the hall. I see there are no votes under this law right now. We believe that there should be reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the arguments expressed by my colleague Lucenko are absolutely sound and reasonable. So we're proposing a joint harmonized bill that would not stop the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, at the same time, so that society can see the desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u151	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u152	Therefore, the honourable Vladimir Borisovich, I propose, since there are no votes under this law in the Hall, to remove it from consideration now, to make a joint harmonized bill, which is voted by 300 participants in the democratic European coalition. Ukrainian citizens expect more from us than just bread, not just jobs, not just wages, they still want justice, an honest court, an honest prosecutor's office, our task is to give them that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have already begun our consideration of this bill, and I think that everyone will be determined about the vote and you will continue to determine how the legislative initiative should be followed. And now everyone's going to figure out what they're going to do when they're considering voting. And so you're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. It is stated in the draft law that the taking of effect will take place on September 1st and also there is no general supervision, that is the essence of the bill. A vote is therefore taken on the basis of Bill 2550. I'd like to make a determination about voting, colleagues, 2550 on a basis, not generally, on a basis. [[17:55:55]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. Arthur Gerasimov wants to return. No, I didn't vote Herasimov. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 22 2550, I'm going to go back to this project for consideration. We vote return, 2250. To return. 2550, return. Please identify your esteemed colleagues as you return to this bill. [[17:56:49]] For 199 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you, everyone, the law is rejected. Moving on, 0916. No proposals, no vote. 0916, Honorary Colleagues, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the animal world. In the second reading. Please, the chairman of the committee is Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, the history of the bill goes back a few years, and I would like to point out that we have been far behind in bringing Ukrainian legislation to European legislation, particularly the directives on the conservation of the natural environment. And that's why today the two bills that we're going to consider -- 0916 and 0917 -- are going to implement some of these commitments. The first bill, which I'm going to report, is about clarifying a whole set of rules that Parliament has adopted in its previous call, but which, by certain circumstances, have not been fully implemented. We banned the sale and sale of so-called electric bicycles in Ukraine, which destroyed a large number of fish stocks, but the Ukrainian people, together with the Polish people, there are several such companies, they sell such a system of electricity via the Internet, because it turns out that we didn't ban the advertising of these electric bicycles, and we didn't ban them from selling them via the Internet. So we're adding this position. We're adding a position of clear definitions that relate to a variety of electrodes that are positioned by both electric motors and so-called electric motors. Another very important position is that, as you know, in the previous call, we stopped the invasion of Chinese and other nets, or, as I say, fishing nets of disposable use that are purchased, used at bets and remained at the bottom. Instead, we did not consider what the wise Ukrainian people in the markets mean when they are checked, they say they are not selling, but they are storing these nets. Thus, we had legislation that prohibited us from entering Ukraine, prohibited us from selling, and prohibited us from storing, for example, in Ukraine. So the inspection or the police complains that they can't do anything, because when they go through, they're a bunch of these nets, and they say, "We don't sell, we store." We're adding this position to storage. And the third, a very important position that I have to say about, we've been fighting for this for several years, and finally, for the first time, the Ministry of Environment and Government in general has supported us. It's about restoring the Institute of Public Inspectors. Without the Institute of Public Inspectors, there is no real corruption that is in the system of overcoming. Because there's a deal between the police and the egers, there's an environmental inspection going on, and there's a deal going on. So there's no competition. Thus, the restoration of a network of public environmental inspectors will enable order. Vladimir Borisovich, there was everything, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u155	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u156	Seven amendments were made and seven are included. But what I'm trying to say is that after the bill was approved, the very authoritative directors of the Reserves came to us about what we're obviously not ready for before what's called absolute conservation. And yesterday, on the committee, we agreed with most of our CEOs that we're making concessions and we're keeping one paragraph in the law. We wanted to ban any construction in the reserves. We wanted to ban even the collection of collections because it was used, yes, there for various abuses, but given the situation and the insistent request of the managers of the reserves, we decided yesterday on the committee that we would like to support all such an editorial, except for the second part of article 16. Let this article work for a transitional period, so the directors of the reserves say that we will forbid them from doing anything at all: scientific research, dissertation, and so forth. Hence, the inclusion of part two, part two, in article 16, paragraph two, asks for support in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u157	Thank you. Please, as amended. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u158	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom. Any such law can only work if the new rules also impose appropriate responsibility. If there is no responsibility, if there is no punishment for breaking the rules, such laws do not work. Regrettably, the number 5 and amendment 6 were amended in preparation for the second reading: a double reduction in fines for the relevant violations. I don't think that's going to be possible at all, because it's sterling, in fact, the idea of a bill. I'd like to ask you to make these two amendments for confirmation: Amendment 5 and Amendment 6, separately. So that the hall doesn't reduce fines like this, there will be fines that really put this bill into real action, not just a button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u159	Thank you. Please correct. Number? Amendment number 5. For confirmation, colleagues, please identify yourself. [[18:03:29]] For-92 Not supported. 6th Amendment to Confirmation, 6th Amendment. [[18:03:53]] For-57 57, no confirmation. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u160	There was a discussion about actually and the first option that colleague Lewchenko is talking about, and the second option is my proposals. So this is the first edition of which I am a co-author. But we made concessions because we did. and proposed an amendment where fines were reduced, coming out of a real and economic situation, including. For example, I don't think anything terrible is going to happen if we go back to editing the first reading and get more fines, but we just went out. We were just coming out of a situation where, as it were, our people today are getting and what is their socio-economic situation, so we've reduced the fines imposed on citizens and officials. So if we don't have the votes to confirm these amendments, I don't deny that they vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u161	Thank you. There is a proposal to put the bill in general. Please, colleagues, get ready. 0916 Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the animal world. Accept in the second reading and in general. It's in the committee's office, isn't it? Mikola Volodymyrovich! It's in the committee's office. Please determine by vote. [[18:06:02]] For 211 I can see they're not there. Yuri Lucenko. Please do it again. Let's go back. But I would ask you to be very careful, colleagues. I'm not putting a vote on the floor until it's half a ton of silence, quieter. Thank you for your understanding. Please, 0916 in the second reading and in general, in the committee. Please vote. 0916. [[18:06:56]] For 229 It was for the return, yes, it was. Everybody stay where you are. We're back. In the second reading and in general in the committee. My colleagues, we're back. Everyone stays where they are. Vote. In the second reading and in general. Voting, voting. [[18:07:37]] For 239. Next, please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, we continue to protect the environment and clean up our forests and reserves from criminal poaching. This bill adds a whole range of positions that we have today in the PSFs or in the reserves. So if you visit today, for example, the Dniestrovsky Canyon, our reserve or a series of other reserves, you'll see that despite everything that the President's decrees and our laws are a natural park or a reserve, there's a full run, for example, they're getting sand or gravel, or they're doing other business. And when I wrote down my 7 Natural Wonders program, I said in a few reserves, "And who gets it," he said, "We're afraid to say it, because it's Kiev, it's serious uncles. They said it was a reserve, but sand, gravel can be mined and sold." So we ban any commercial, business activity in the natural reserves. Because the logic of the reserve is that there can only be scientific research, there can be conferences and meetings and so forth. So let's bring this story into line. There's another position. Who was in Zacarpat, and maybe came to the Sineveir Reserve, knows that there was a place for the rehabilitation of brown bears. These are the bears that the Ukrainian people tortured at gas stations, gas stations, and restaurants and so on. So people take it, they tame it, they breathe it for money or something, and they have fun. We prohibit the use of animals for such entertainment at gas stations, restaurants, or elsewhere. This is a second principle position. And finally, there's this discussion story. We spoke on the committee yesterday, too. We did not find a solution to another rule. And that's why I have to ask her to take it off, because scientific expertise is convincingly proving that we can't control it. Today, we wanted to improve the trade standard along the roads in cities, populated areas, and so forth. It meant that red - collared species of animals or plants are sold along roadways, for example. We can't understand or, legally, where it is, along the roadways, how to test it. And since this ambiguity is, I agree to withdraw amendment 6th, Vladimir Borisovich, mine, so as not to overthrow the law. I mean, the law doesn't have a sixth amendment. And we're still on the committee, and we're going to advise you how to make it right. So we would like to support in general, with the exception of my 6th amendment. All the five amendments we took into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u163	Thank you. Please, colleagues, do you have any suggestions? We're voting on the committee. 0917. Colleagues, prepare to vote in second reading, 0917. I'd like you to determine by vote. [[18:11:51]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, second reading (1706), the draft Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Police Act (for the preservation of money and other forms of security for police officers captured or taken hostage or unaccounted for). Please report to the head of the committee, Victor Mikolayovich King.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u164	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! A bill amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Police Act (for the preservation of money and other forms of security for police officers captured in captivity or hostages, or undisclosedly absent), registration number 1706, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Teteruk, Breza, Timchuk, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of February 13, on the basis of 238 votes. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, eight proposals were made by the committee from the Ukrainian National Deputies, including 3, 2 – Stonik, 1 – Kozemyakin. And Melniczuk and Kuprienka have been rejected for reasons that go beyond the framework of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's first reading of the text of the bill or disagree with the position of the legislative acts of Ukraine. The text proposed by the committee has been prepared for consideration in the second reading, which has been handled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority and is being prepared without notice. In view of the above, the committee proposed recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the second reading of Project No. 1706, to adopt it as a law as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u165	Thank you, colleagues. Vote? Important Bill 1706. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. An important bill. In the second reading and in general in 1706, please vote according to the committee's decision. Please vote. Colleagues, be careful, we're voting. [[6:14:44]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. 1362 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the activities of business entities related to the implementation and export of timbers. Head of the Halasyuk Victor Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u166	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! There is now no exaggeration of the historical moment for the woodworking sector of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the Committee's second reading project on the characteristics of State regulation of the activities of business entities related to the implementation and export of timbers No. 1362. I emphasize that the authors are professional people with almost virtually all the factions of the coalition. These are national deputies: Dobrodomov, Tomenko, Laško, Matkovsky, Musi, Kupri, Chapinoga, Ednak, Antonistak, Dubininin, Dirov. Dear colleagues, this extremely important bill introduces a temporary 10-year complete restriction on the export ban on unprocessed roundwood from Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'd like to emphasize that only the round forest, one code for the U.K.T.S.A.D. The board -- you can, the furniture -- you can, the paper -- you can, you can't, you can't, you can't. Why can't you? Because they don't go to the budget because they don't have jobs. This needs to be fixed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have foreseen for the second reading of the transitional periods, not immediately, but seven months later, after the harvest, except for the pines, more than a year and a half later. Dear colleagues, this is in line with the WTO’s requirements, since we conducted appropriate consultations. I turned to him. There is some justification, in order to avoid a critical deficit in wood, we have the right as a country to do so. I spoke to the Prime Minister as chairman of the committee on the official notification of the WTO on this matter. In addition, I would like to point out that this bill is anti-corruption because it removes the monopoly of the central executive authority for the issue of certificates. Certificates will be issued by woodchoppers, permanent forest users. Instead, there will be a single electronic register that will allow any certificate in the country to be traced. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this bill in such an order, because it will give a tremendous boost to the development of the woodworking sector. We'll see in Ukrainian furniture stores, paper, energy pellets. It's a few tens of thousands of jobs. This is over a billion additional dollars in exports, a positive trade balance for Ukraine. This is a tenfold increase in taxes on this sector, because the finished product costs ten times the value of that unprocessed forest round. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the editorial proposed by the Committee, which agrees with the authors, which agrees with the forest processors, which has been consulted with forests, including the Polish Embassy. Because Poland is one of the main interests. They'll bring in their factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u167	Finish it, Victor. Colleagues, let's vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u168	Ukrainians will have a job worth their wages to fill the Pension Fund. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u169	Thank you. Please take your seats, colleagues. Take your seats, please. Is there an amendment? Please, a national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, just a minute. The people's deputy has a word. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, we offer to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u171	Kisses, Kisses. National MP Kisse, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u172	Dear friends, distinguished colleagues, distinguished chairman of the committee! There were six amendments, four of which were taken into account by a group of deputies. I ask you to take a comparative table, page 4, of article 2.1, paragraph 7. We were invited to make time out by 2018. I ask again to consider this issue carefully, because the entire forest sector will lose its wages. These woodchoppers are now dealing with the planting of trees and the resolution of very many issues. I ask that you return to this amendment and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u173	Please, Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u174	Dear colleague, thank you for your offer. The committee's decision has been taken since January 1, 2017. It's almost two years, it's enough to enter the equipment, to expand it. What's more, I'm telling you. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that a bill has been tabled today by the People's Deputies of various factions to remove the import duty on appropriate equipment. Nearly two years is enough for both the foreign and Ukrainian investors to build production under the pines. We can't take this any longer. The committee proposes as stated: since January 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u175	Thank you, Your Honor. What was the amendment, the number? Victor? Victor, what was the correction? No, you didn't. They didn't call it an amendment, so they don't. For your consideration in the second reading and in general the draft law (registration number 1362). In the second reading and in general, please vote. 1362 as a base and as a whole. [[18:21:35]] For 233 Decision taken. 0927 Draft Law amending article 16 of the Basic Health Law of Ukraine (for accreditation of pharmacies). National MP, deputy head of the Musai committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, before your consideration, it is suggested that you consider draft Law 0927 amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Health Law (on accreditation of pharmacies) in the second reading of 27.11.2014. The bill was adopted in the first reading in the last calling of the Supreme Council. The drafters of the bill then took into account all the rights of the members of the Supreme Council Committee of our call and the members of the committee since 5.02.2015. It was decided to recommend the bill for adoption by the Supreme Council on second reading and in general. The committee's decision was taken unanimously. The main scientific and expert administration has prepared the bill without notice and is also recommended to support it in the second reading and in general. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the State’s influence on the activities of the operators. In fact, today's pharmacies are essentially two identical procedures that are getting a license, and then the same procedure that is called accreditation. That is why, taking into account our tendency to deregulation of entrepreneurial activities, the main ideologist of which is our esteemed Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Groissman, proposes to cancel mandatory accreditation for pharmacies that are apothecary. Therefore, it is only on a voluntary basis that we can exercise this accreditation. The bill will reduce prices, including in pharmacies, by reducing this corruption component, which is often paid by pharmacies for accreditation. Please have the bill as a whole and in a second reading. I'd like everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u177	Please, Your Honor, 0927, report by the deputy chairman of the committee. Can we all be a little quieter? Can we please just keep it down? Please be quiet. Thank you. Prepare for vote 0927, second reading and as a whole. In the second reading and in general, please. Vote. [[6:24:48]] For 246 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1313, draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Law 1313, draft Law on the introduction of new investment opportunities, guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of business subjects for extensive energy-generating. Please, Victor Halasyuk. As long as he reports this law, I'm going to look at 1558-1. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u178	May I, Volodymyr Borisovich, please? Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, Bill (No.1313) prepared for the second reading. The bill introduces European energy service contracts in Ukraine, which will allow Ukraine to reduce energy consumption by 20 to 40 percent. This will allow Ukraine to save up to one billion cubic metres of gas a year, that's us. Take a real step towards depriving Russia of its energy dependence. It's much better than just looking for a place to buy gas. This is much better than looking for and how to extract more. Better run the energy efficiency, it'll lower the tariffs. I stress that the main feature of this bill, as well as the next bill that goes with it in a packet (1409), does not require any amount of budget capital, no amount of the budget needed to be made. There's an investor coming in, making energy-grade -- he's getting a piece of the economy. There's no economy, there's no budget payments. Dear colleagues, this bill, developed jointly with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is supported by the World Bank. Moreover, the EBRD gives 1.5 billion dollars to all regions of Ukraine in the first stage only to be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this very important bill so that we can start living in Europe not only geographically but economically. And at the level of energy-generating, too. I want to thank all the members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship and the Committee on Budgets for their patience, because this is a very difficult bill that we have worked together. I want to thank all the authors and ask you to take no less bold steps in energy engineering than we have now taken in the development of the woodworking sector. Dear colleagues, support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u179	Thank you. Colleagues, please, take your seats, we will vote, 1313 on second reading and the whole draft Law on the introduction of new investment opportunities to guarantee the rights and legitimate interests of business subjects to carry out extensive energy engineering, a colleague. Please take your places to vote. Large-scale energy modernisation, bill 1313. Please, in the second reading and in general. 1313. At the committee's suggestion. [[18:29:14]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am connected, I understand, 1409. An Associated Bill? Victor, 1409. Let's finish 1409 and move on to 1558. Honorable Colleagues, 1409 These are related two bills. Is there a change, an addition to 1409? No changes, no additions? None. 1409: Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the introduction of new investment opportunities, guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of subjects of entrepreneurial activity for the conduct of large-scale energy-generating activities). 1409 please vote in second reading and in general. [[18:30:15]] For 241 Thank you, Your Honor. It is especially gratifying that these two laws are approved. He had the honor of working on these laws too. Thank you, Your Honor. We need to consider -- attention, colleagues! - 1558, 1558-1. But I have to move it in order of the day right now. And I'm putting this proposal to a vote. I propose to consider 1558, 1558-1 the next bill. Please be supportive. 1558 and 1558-1 -- look at this bill right now. [[6:31:05]] For 236 Decision taken. Colleagues, please. National Deputy of Ukraine Melniczuk. Sergey Melniczuk, 1738. 1558! Colleagues, National Deputy Day. Yes. Please report. Can I have some quieter, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u180	Good afternoon! As a result of the financial crisis, the amount of difficult loans in the banking system has reached critical levels. Tens of thousands of our compatriots have also faced financial hardships. They are able to handle their debts. The problem of monetary lenders has become national and needs immediate solutions. In order to ensure the protection of citizens’ rights, a bill to be considered has been drafted to ensure the restoration of trust in banks and other financial institutions, minimizing the loss of citizens in carrying out their credit obligations. I'm just going to stop at the main positions. First. All banks and other financial institutions, on a written application by a citizen, must restructure the liability under a credit agreement within one month. The other one. The law extends to all consumer credits obtained to purchase any product without limiting the amount of debt, including movable and immovable. Third. Debt for consumer credit shall be converted at the official rate of the NCB at the date of the contract. Four. The interest rate on using the loan after restructuring shall not exceed that set before restructuring. Within two years of becoming effective, this law establishes a moratorium on the acquisition of any property of the borrowers. I want to point out that this is purely about noncommercial objects. Such an object should not exceed 140 square feet [140 sq m] and 250 square meters [250 sq m]. All open executions of matters that fall under the moratorium that is planned to be put into effect by this law are completed. I am aware that the provisions of this bill do not suit the interests of all interested parties. But we, Ukrainian parliamentarians, should not hide from the problems of our fellow countrymen and therefore have to take responsibility for resolving the issue that is causing considerable social tension in society. So I urge all my colleagues to support this bill. If you've seen, people have been in Parliament for months and all day. Therefore, honourable parliamentarians, I ask you very much to support, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u181	Dear colleagues, please report – Polakov Maxima Anatoliyovich, head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Information from the committee. Shall we go "for"- "against"? Do we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u182	Please, Your Honor, please. Your consideration is based on Bill 1558-1. Please vote. Based on the base. [[18:35:04]] For 215 215. I see. Look, if you want us to go back, we need to, we need to stop, we need to calm down. Please focus on coming back, not on shouting. Please, colleagues. I'm betting on a motion to return to draft Law 1558-1, attention, return, colleagues, please, on your return, please, 1558-1. 1558-1 on return. [[18:35:59]] For 210. 210. They didn't. They didn't. Once again, colleagues, please take your seats. Let's do it again, let's do it again. And let's put a dot on that. Please don't speak, we have to sit down, we have to take our seats, we have to invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, please. Come into the hall, take your seats, get ready. We're going to vote now. 1558-1, for returning to the draft Law of Review. Please vote for the return. As for the return of the debate. [[18:36:59]] For 205 No votes. Thank you, Your Honor. I think we are. I'd like to, come on. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, is there a comment? Please. I think we need to get back to the committee, work together and bring it back again so that we don't lose this law. In the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u183	Dear colleagues! There are many rumors and misunderstandings about this law. There is no return to the $5 bill in this law, but this law offers civilized methods of restructuring the debts of those who are in a situation of sharp exchange. For example, a bank’s voluntary write-off of a portion of the loan. For example, the right to the first bailout with the discount offered by the bank. Like the keys to a table, like other things. On the first reading, to calm people down, to give them the opportunity to go home from under Nazbank, I would consider it possible to vote and continue to make him a normal bill with the Nazbank team. On the first reading, I would ask you to accept this bill as a testimony to our concern for the citizens who, through us politicians, have fallen into this mess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u184	Yuri Vitaliovich. Colleagues, once again, back, fourth time. Return offer. Everybody backs up, everybody understands. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u185	Dear friends! Once again, I want to pay attention to a very important thing. Many of you are approached by women whose men are on the front today. And today they're getting banks to pay back people who give their lives. Much of this law is also assigned to those who are now fighting in the ATO zone. Besides, the people who are standing there today are also behind all the politicians, because they weren't saved, and in 2009, when we were talking to Yushchenk, they didn't solve that question. We should vote in the first reading and work on this bill until the next session. I pray to God, this is a test of Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u186	Please take your seats. Mikhail Golovko, one minute. Take your seats, please, colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall. All of it! We have to vote. Take your seats again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u187	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable deputies, colleagues. You've only voted in this room today to renegotiate the law of the banks, so to speak, to remove people's right to withdraw their deposits on a permanent basis, and only with the deadline for the conclusion of the treaty. And instead, you don't want to go to people's meetings. We're giving billions of refunds each time to banks, in the 8th year -- 15 billion dollars, last year 179 billion dollars, 40 banks have bankrupted both the responsibilities and the responsibilities of no step for human concessions. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have been affected, including soldiers currently fighting in the ATO zone, fighting for the Ukrainian state, but we are not taking any steps to meet them. Let's restructure these debts, let's give people the opportunity to deal with the crisis that has been caused by the course of government, including the guilty government and the Nutzbank. And that's why we all have to be responsible. We support the Ukrainians, we support this law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u188	There's an offer to come back and we'll get started and there'll be performances, okay? Back to you. Let's focus, get back to your seats. Let's get out of here when we get back. So now we're going to talk-talk-and-talk. Please, colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again the importance of this bill. Please, 1558-1, we vote for the return. To return. It's about coming back. [[18:41:34]] For 240 You see, it's better, 240. Colleagues, we're voting 1558-1. Well, that's it. Not to talk, not to ask questions. 1558-1 -- based, based. On the basis only. [[18:42:07]] For 241 Thank you. Decision taken. Come on, colleagues. Another bill was missed in 1735. 1735, colleagues, is the proposal to consider now 1735. 1735, 1735. Proposal for a review of 1735 now. 1735, please determine your vote. With regard to the draft Law, 1735 are ready to vote, ready to vote? Ready to vote? 1735, he's fine. It's a draft law amending "the regulation of urban activities." Identify yourself, colleagues. No, no, no, it's not a question of "Oh, yeah" or "Oh, no." You have a green, yellow, red button there. It's your "Oh, yeah," "Oh, no." 1735, please, for the present review of 1735. Please vote, 1735. On the subject of Law 1735 now. [[18:43:42]] For 203 We didn't make it? 1735 is now under review. As for now, 1735. Please, please. 1735. [[18:44:09]] For 217 There's no decision. Thank you. We'll look at it day by day as we do. 2299 is a draft law. One minute. 0919. Yeah? 0919 is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Prices (Traffics) with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Is there a Demchisin, 0919? Please. The Minister of Energy will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u189	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! I propose a change to the Law on the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u191	I propose for your consideration Act 0919, amending some of Ukraine's pricing (tariff) laws. The Law was passed by the Supreme Council on February 10, 2015. And according to this law, some changes were made to articles 5 and 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. The main substance of the proposed changes is the mechanism, as well as the methods of financing the difference between economically sound tariffs and the tariffs set by the regulator. Economically sound tariffs are tariffs that meet the regulatory costs and the regulatory costs of providing certain services. It is very common that a State or regulator, for some reason, decides to set tariffs at a different level, at a lower level, in order to subsidize or maintain socially vulnerable levels, generally of the population. In such a case, it is necessary to finance the difference. Thus, under this law, Kabmin was assigned the function of defining the methodology and the resource to finance such a difference. The president vetoed the bill and suggested that it be supplemented, and suggested that Kabmin should be required. propose changes to Ukraine's budget, which will specifically install a tape that will finance the financing for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u192	Thank you. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u193	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! At least everyone's awake. What do we do after 18 hours?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u194	We'll work as long as we don't adopt all the laws that are good for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Policy Committee has considered the President's proposals. All the President's proposals were supported, taken into account. So I ask all factions to support this bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u196	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, we will. And Igor Nasalek. And we'll vote. Stay in the rostrum, stay in the rostrum. Stay in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u197	Dear national MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! I would suggest that we postpone making decisions on this issue for the following reasons. Recently, the government on the same issue submitted to us a draft law on price regulation for similar prices. For these services. There's a slightly different formulation of the law. And in order for us to have no differences, I propose that we assign The Committee on Economic Policy, re-examine this law and government, and determine which edition we will ultimately support, the government or the draft law that we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u198	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u199	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, Victor Mikhailovich and I have actually communicated before to unite the two bills and determine which one we will support. And I would like to, Victor Mikhailovich, look, the government bill also amends the Law on Prices and Tariffs, they don't intersect with the President's proposals. So we can now vote in favour of the bill and vote in favour of the government if there is support in the room. They do not apply to the same questions. So I ask you very much to vote and to support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u200	Thank you. Igor Nasalik, please. Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u201	Dear colleagues, we don't have much difference in tariffs these days. Because the national regulator sets economically sound prices. So there's no difference in tariffs today, and we're adopting a law on even criminal liability for non-conforming prices based on economic grounds. The point is that we're talking about the difference in tariffs that have formed over the past few years. What is this difference in tariffs? The difference in tariffs is the State’s obligation to utilities. Therefore, it is a great request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u202	That's true. Do you insist, High Commissioner, shall we vote? You insist. People's Deputy High and we vote. Please take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u203	Sergey High, People's Front. First, we want to say that the People's Front fully supports the President's initiatives and will vote for them. But I have to use this moment to ask Mr. Demchikin the questions I asked him on our People's Front faction and we haven't heard from them. First. We were talking about Mr. Demchikin never informing us whether he was contracting an energy contract with the Crimean Federal District? Were those words there? Whether we had such a contract because we have material in the service investigation that tells us what it was. This is the first time. Secondly, we and a number of fellow members of the national MPs made statements to Mr. Shockin on ours. Other fellow members of the People's Deputies for the oil and gas mafia. We can see that Mintopenergo is doing nothing to stop this divide in the oil and gas sector, the corruption schemes of Yanukovich that are still working in it. That's why my colleagues and I asked Mr. Arsenius Yatsenuk, Prime Minister, to remove Demchino from office. And we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u204	I point out to the Ukrainian National Deputies that when you take the floor during the consideration of the draft Law, your report should be exactly about the substance of the law in question. Thank you for hearing this offer. Radical faction, Oleg Lazko, one minute. We prepare to vote and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u205	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The bill that is proposed to us for consideration on the establishment of action tariffs is an extremely important bill that will certainly be supported by the Radical Party. But at the same time, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens who are concerned today about how they are going to pay these insurmountable tariffs, housing and utility prices, I'm asking Minister of Energy Demchikin: why are you buying electricity, coal in Russia, taking away the work of lion miners, volley miners, day-to-day coal miners and energy miners? Who gave you the right to pay, pay money, give jobs to Russian miners and not pay our miners? Who gave you the right to pay for Russian coal, electricity costs more than Ukrainian coal and electricity? Are you an agent? How much does Putin pay you for destroying your own energy, your own coal sector?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u206	They listened and they did it their way. Colleagues, the important bill is 0919. The difference in tariffs is for utilities. the difference in tariffs to utilities, which is extremely important. A colleague of Nasalek said so. Therefore, I ask you, in accordance with the decision of the PIC committee, to vote on this bill as a whole with the President's proposals. Please take your seats. People's deputies please take their places to vote. Andry Volodymyrovich, take your seats for the vote. Please support this bill with the President's proposals, 0919. Please vote in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please support, please vote, colleagues, vote. [[18:53:59]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Moving on, 2299 is an important question, by the way, 2299, 2291. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal on Electronic Appeal and Electronic Petition. He'll report. There are two bills: 2299 and 2299-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] You know all the bills, don't you have to report them? Based on what? Committee decision: 2,299 to take as a basis. It's a committee decision. I'm betting on a vote of 2,299 on a basis, that's how the MPs decided. Please vote, 2299. Vote, colleagues, come on. [[18:54:57]] For 234 Based on 2299. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's an assignment. I'll make this official. Okay? I'll give you an assignment. Colleagues, I'll assign you an assignment to find a consolidated solution with the committee. I think you'll find him. Please, I ask the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations to work together on this bill, taking into account the provisions of the Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on the conversion of citizens and the Ukrainian Supreme Council regulations. You're going to work on this together, and you're going to make agreed proposals for the second reading -- that's the commission. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Important Bill: 2151 - Draft Law amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (for exemption from tax on added-value import and supply of medical supplies and supplies). The national deputy of Ukraine, Olga Vadimovna, prepared a prayer. Roman Nasirov. Do we have the head of the Nasirov profile committee? Is there a Nasir? There is a proposal for a profile committee to vote on the basis. Do you confirm? Based on the base. [[B in m in s a l in]] Roman Nasirov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u207	Colleagues, I will not report, but the committee has decided to vote on the basis. But we've had further negotiations, and we don't think the committee will deny it if we vote for the basis and for the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u208	Thank you, Your Honor. There's an offer. It's an important bill: medicine. Invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the hall. Colleagues, return to the hall, please. 2151: Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine (for exemption from tax on added-value import and supply of medical supplies and supplies). There is a proposal for a committee to vote as a basis and as a whole, supported by the people's deputies. So I'm voting on this bill as a basis and as a whole, a proposal. I'd like you to determine for the vote. Please support this bill. Please be supportive. [[18:58:00]] For 236 Decision taken. Next: 1568 - Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on how to enforce judicial decisions. Deputy Minister Yanchuk Anton Volodymyrovich. There is a proposal to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure, the author. Please identify yourself. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. First reading. [[18:58:37]] For 177 Please, Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u209	Dear National Deputies! You may have reason to believe that the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on how to enforce judicial decisions (registration No. 1568) is proposed. First of all, briefly on the preconditions for this legislative proposal. Everyone knows that there is a systemic problem in Ukraine in failing to comply with the decisions of the national courts and decisions of the European Court of Justice that have been taken as a result of the proceedings against Ukraine. Cases of failure to comply with national courts are the most extensive category of cases in which the European Court of Justice decides against Ukraine. Short statistics. As of January 1, 2015, the actual debt owed to the decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State, as well as the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights taken as a result of the proceedings against Ukraine, amounted to more than 7.5 billion dollars. This debt has accumulated over the past 10 years as a result of national court decisions. On the other hand, our foreign partners demand that this problem be resolved as soon as possible, since failure to resolve this problem in part of the State’s obligation to comply with the decisions of the national courts may result in a recommission of applicants to the European Court of Human Rights. In this case, they may claim a doubling of the amount of compensation, which again results in a burden on the State budget. So at present, the state owes more than 7.5 billion dollars to decisions against the state. At the same time, there are no such funds in the budget. However, European partners, as well as the situation itself, require a solution. Appropriately, it is proposed to create a mechanism that will allow the courts to execute such decisions not only on the basis of money, but also on the basis of the issuance to creditors, persons who are entitled to the State of financial instruments, such as treasury bills. In this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u210	Thank you. Please, the head of the Committee, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u211	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered at its meeting on 24 December 2014 a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on how to enforce judicial decisions under registration number 1568 of 22 December 14, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The draft Law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, and on the guarantees of the State with regard to the enforcement of judicial decisions under which the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine may provide for other mechanisms and means of enforcing judicial decisions than those defined by these laws. According to the members of the committee for adoption of the draft Law, it would prevent further violations of the rights of persons to free ownership of property and to enforce a court decision to avoid excessive spending of the State budget. At the same time, the Committee notes that the bill can only be adopted in general if it is finalized and amended accordingly, which will provide for the application of an alternative means of enforcement only in the event of the applicant's voluntary consent, in particular through the agreement on amicable settlement of disputes. Thus, the proposed draft Law can be adopted as a basis, taking into account this observation when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u212	Thank you, sir. Is there a need to discuss this? Yes. Sign up for two, two for the other. Please two for, two for against. Please, Corner Taras. Oksana Sold, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, there is indeed a problem of failure and failure by the state to comply with decisions of courts, different levels of courts. But we do not have the right with you to allow payment on behalf of the State of Wage or other obligations of the State to the common people who today expect money by promissory notes. So I'm asking you not to support this bill and not to introduce the shameful practice of replacing living money with bills. Because tomorrow they're going to offer to pay for shoes and something else, like the '90s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u214	Please, come on. Paul Kishkar, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u215	No, no. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u216	Paul, Paul? I got it. Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u217	Dear colleagues, I support Oxana Prodan, who has just spoken and stated that this law cannot be voted for in principle in the first reading or on the basis that there is a wrong principle in this bill, which, if voted in the first reading, according to our regulations, will have to be preserved in the second reading. During the presentation, we were told that this could be done if it was done voluntarily. But, dear colleagues, if this is done voluntarily by pressing the fingers at the door of those who have to get living money, even in this case, there will be a market for promissory notes that will be issued under the execution of decisions of the European Court of Justice, which is totally unacceptable. It is clear that in a situation like this, when people are told, the Ukrainian state will never pay you back, or take notes. Perhaps some of these people will want to take this bill, thus creating a corrupt market for bills, government bills in Ukraine, which can then be classified as State liabilities and taxes, and anywhere else. So once again, this bill cannot be voted on, nor in the first reading, nor on the basis, nor in any way. I think this bill is criminal in terms of Ukrainian citizens. And from this point of view, I don't support this bill in principle, and I ask it to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u218	Vote? Vote. 1568, based. Identify yourself, fellow believers. Based on the base. [[19:06:45]] For-64 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next, colleagues. 2300. Colleagues, 2300. Ready to vote? Not ready. Colleagues, as the author, I'm asking your permission to move. May I? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm entitled as an author. Thank you. 2382. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for specific legal aspects of improving Ukraine’s position in Doing Business). Please, colleagues, Doing Business, 2382. Deputy Justice Minister Anton Yanchuk Colleagues, there's gonna be a fine, now there's gonna be a fine. Moral fine for what we're saying, we're yelling. Please, Yanchuk. Under the reduced procedure is the developer's offer. 2382 Please vote on the summary procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[19:08:51]] For 148 148, they didn't have a reduced procedure. Let's do it again. Calm down, calm down. I know what to do, don't doubt it. Thank you for your advice, but I know what to do. Please consider the simplified procedure. [[19:09:36]] For 175 Please report. Please calm down a little bit, please. Be quiet, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u219	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ministry of Justice, the Cabinet's draft law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on certain legal aspects of improving Ukraine's position in Doing Business. I remind you that Ukraine currently ranks 96th in World Bank Doing Business ratings. To our conviction, this bill will be able to improve Ukraine's rating at least by 16 positions if it is adopted. So it's going to be able to take 80 places in the corresponding rating. The draft law proposes to amend three areas of legal regulation. First. This is the area of recovery of the debtor’s ability to pay. The other one. State registration of property rights. Third. It's an execution. If very briefly, the draft law obliges arbitrators to disclose the debtor's information on a specialized website. Accordingly, this information becomes more accessible. Also in the management procedure, creditors are given the right to prior agreement on significant rights as to the debtor’s property. This appropriately removes the corruption component in the activities of arbitrators. In addition, it is proposed that the draft law explicitly states that an insolvent borrower is entitled to receive a loan. The absence of an appropriate standard at present is a problem for borrowing because financial institutions are reluctant to meet the corresponding debtors. Eventually, the duration of bankruptcy procedures is reduced. The duration of the performance runs is reduced from 6 to 4 months. National executives are given the right to register the load of immovable property on their own, allowing them to cut the deadline for communication with the state registration service. In addition, they are granted access to state land.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u220	Please let me finish, 10 seconds. Please complete the report, but press in 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u221	The State registry also provides access to the State’s land cadastre for the purpose of providing and registering loads of both real estate and buildings. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u222	Thank you very much for the thorough report. And now I give the floor to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuku Andriy Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please approach the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, who in this room opposes Ukraine's rise in ratings, please raise your hand. Is there anyone in this room against making it easier to run a business for small and medium-sized businesses? There aren't any, you see. The unanimous support of the hall. The Economic Policy Committee has considered the bill and asks you to accept it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u224	Thank you. There is a suggestion that we vote without discussion after such a fiery report. Is it supported? No, not supported. Please have a word to make. Who's from Peter Dust? Please turn on the microphone. Melniczuk, please turn on the microphone. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u225	Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? First of all, on the committee, we would have found this law to be corrupt. That's the first one. This is the Anti-Corruption Committee. The other one. See, for the purpose of identifying the auctioneer, the bill proposes to the buyers as one of the criteria to use the valuation concept of "sufficient auction experience". In doing so, there is no indication of how much experience can be considered sufficient for the auction. The absence of clear criteria for identifying persons who may be organizers of auctions can and will be clearly the basis for committing corruption, including demanding and receiving wrong benefits and bribes. So please think. I would urge you not to rush to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u226	Thank you. A brief reply from Andrew Vladimirovich Ivanchuk and we vote immediately. Very short. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u227	Thank you very much to the previous speaker. This is what I've been saying that before the second reading, all MPs will be able to make amendments, improve the bill, improve, deepen and adopt it after the amendments to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u228	Please, say the word "Birds" again. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u229	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the self-help faction will support this bill in the first reading, because we plan to amend it. We want to say that compared to the editorial that was previously presented by the Ministry of Justice, the editorial has improved, removed the disgraceful orderly conduct of the economic process, but, at the same time, we want to pay attention to the Cabinet of Ministers and, in particular, to the Committee of Economic Policy, so that we are not in shape, but to the content. Let's not raise us in ratings, let's do real reforms and focus on real change, not take care of what place we're in. If we're actually going to make normal changes, then we're going to automatically increase in ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u230	Thank you. Thus, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on certain legal aspects of number 2382 is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading. May I have your support, national deputies? Vote. [[19:16:52]] For-187 The bill did not get the necessary number of votes, there is a proposal to return because not all voted. I understand there's an offer to come back? Now we put it back, that's every MP's right. Please focus and be less emotional, the right of every MP to turn to the leader to return to the vote, and please hide your emotions. So, Your Honor, we are now voting for the return of bill 2382. Please enter the Chamber and take your seats and vote in favour of the return of 2382. Please vote. [[19:17:57]] For 190 Thank you. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u231	Madam Deputy Minister of Economics, once again, Madam Deputy Minister of Economics. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you listening? You come to the Supreme Council Hall to listen to the national MPs. If you would listen carefully. This is for you, yes! So you'd hear what Deputy Pteshnik told you about the need to prepare quality, non-corruption bills and read the bills before they're passed, because business after opening your bills, where "deregulation and simplification" is written, can't find anything but deterioration. And that's why the Supreme Council is giving you back the bill for the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u232	Thank you. Maybe we should vote for getting back to work on the committee. This proposal is not supported. Yeah? Not supported. The return developer. Then let's vote for the return of the author, the drafter of the draft for further work. I'm asking the room to settle down. Yeah, by the way, we should get back to the question anyway. That's why I'm here. Yeah, and I'm going to put it not as a basis for the vote, but I'm going to put it to the vote to return it to the developer for processing. And so that part of the MPs who haven't voted back yet, maybe you'll support it. Can I count on that? Then please, I'll do it again. If it doesn't work, I won't bet on the return. So, dear colleagues, I ask you once again to support the proposal to return to the 2382 bill. Please be supportive. Vote. [[19:20:16]] For-191 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will no longer put to the vote. And I'll tell you, there's, well, there's literally a little bit more of us in the hall than there's a quorum. And let's not do the moments of political speculation. There was an offer to return to the drafter of the bill. Let's keep looking for constructive suggestions, and if there are no votes, we're just gonna have to close the session. Let's do it now. There's a voting room. That's why I won't close it now. We're moving on to the next bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] In 1875, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on quarantine of plants is now under consideration (reforming the system of state quarantine regulation and bringing phytosanitary measures into line with international standards and obligations). There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support the vote. [[19:21:33]] For 175 Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u233	Dear colleagues, I'm brief. Bill 1875 was developed in co-authorship with Taras in corner – "Prashenka Block" and John Miroshnichenko in Self-Help. He's supported by an agrarian committee, he's supported by a profile association, he's supported by science and expertise. My point is that the government has already made its contribution, and today it appears to be a 24-hour health certificate. You'll only think about one number, fellows, today a simple ship of fifty-fourtoners for any exporter or in a state-owned food grain is worth $100,000. Today, in the area of quarantine plants, if all requirements are met, Ukraine is 7.5 times. This is unacceptable for Ukrainian producers to spend more money than in EU countries. The law itself is called the conformity of government standards and obligations. The main provisions of the bill are the restriction of the issue of a 24-hour phytosanitary certificate, the introduction of public access to information on the Internet site of the central executive authority, which will inform the operators of international trading partners, will remove unjustified administrative barriers in the form of verification by the central executive authority. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u234	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u235	Dear colleagues, the committee discussed this bill in February. This is a bill that provides for significant steps in deregulation of the regulatory framework in the context of simplification of procedures and certification, and other issues that relate to the difficult fate of our peasants. The committee therefore decided to support the bill as a basis. We have spoken, of course, there is still an opportunity to work on this bill. But if the decision is to be made, the request may also be considered to be accepted as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m1.u236	Thank you. Society, the committee is offering to take it as a foundation. Can we count on us to vote on a broad discussion? We can. Then I heard. Can we do that one? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then please, I will now put the vote on the ground. I'm very much asking you to go back to your jobs, take your jobs. And I'm betting on the vote. What, in general? In general, can it be supported? Sure. Then I propose. Let's not make a mistake in us, first on the basis, and then try it in general. It'll be okay, no, no. First, on the ground. So the bill amending the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act (No. 1875) is put to the vote on the basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[19:25:12]] For 212 We haven't been able to vote. I'll ask the deputies again to come to their places of work, to return to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] And now there's a test vote. Now we're going to try to vote again. I very much ask the deputies to return to their workplaces. We must now vote for the return and then for the basis. If we don't have enough votes in the room, then we're going to discuss how we're going to proceed in this situation. But now I'm asking the question of getting back to voting on Bill 1875. Please be supportive. Please vote. To return. Vote. [[19:26:13]] For 211 Colleagues, let's consult. Don't scream, please. Look, either we have a political decision, or we don't have enough votes in the room. Now we're going to do a test vote on how many national MPs are in the room. Signal vote. Is there any support for such an offer? There's support, right? Then, please, right now, we're all going back to work, we're going to make a signal vote, how many national deputies are in the hall, whether it makes sense to continue any further discussion, whether it makes sense to continue any vote. Everyone's back to work? We're back. We're holding a signal vote on the presence of deputies in the hall. I would like to vote on the vote. Please. [[19:27:11]] For-198 My dear colleagues, unfortunately, there are only 198 deputies in this room, so we cannot continue our work. It's very sad. Tomorrow we will form the order of the day, coming out of tomorrow’s reality. But since there are not enough deputies to continue my work, I close the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. At 10 a.m., we're waiting for you in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue our work. Nevertheless, today was an important day, a busy day. We have adopted many important laws for Ukraine, for the security of Ukraine, and for the national memory of the laws, with which I welcome you.
