ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're starting another plenary week, which is filled with all sorts of important questions. Today we will have the opportunity to consider the issue of innovation. In the afternoon we will be able to consider a number of agrarian issues of support for the Ukrainian village in the agricultural day. On Wednesday, a planned review of ratification issues, traditionally, as well as other criminal matters. On Thursday, we should consider with you the very important Law on State Service, which for decades has not been a priority for power. And I think today we need to build mechanisms for the formation of a quality government apparatus that will perform its functions professionally. Well, on Friday we'll be listening to the government. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I would also like to inform you that, you know, these days, Mr. Joseph Biden is visiting the Vice President of the United States of America. And as part of this visit, an important event will take place for Ukraine, a performance in the Ukrainian Supreme Council Hall. It's probably about 11 o'clock. So we can start our work. Please prepare for registration. Let's register, high-ranking colleagues. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:03:06]] 297 national deputies in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to speak today from MPs and factions. Please record a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please. Please, Dudenkov Alexander Valeriovich. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The time has come for the government to tell people the truth about the real state of things in domestic energy and the prospects for winter. TES warehouses have twice as much coal as normal. At best, this will be enough by the new year, and no African boats will change the situation. Import gas is not purchased because of the lack of funds in Naftogazu, and not only Russian gas, but also reverse from Europe. If the current authority continues to overlook the real situation, people and the country are completely held hostage to the weather. To get out of a crisis situation, supplies need to be immediately arranged: at least 50,000 tons of coal per day and 50 million cubic metres of gas per energy system in Ukraine. Now, let's talk about the economic situation. The government has not yet submitted the draft budget for the following year. There's probably no point in hearing ministers here because the budget was written by IMF officials. Then it is better to invite them into the hall so that they can tell how to survive people with the rates that the IMF put in the Ukrainian budget. What we see in the tax reform project is once again increasing the pressure on the real economy, on small and medium-sized businesses. Social benefits for people will be provided only if there is money for this in Ukraine. It's risky. Pension taxes are maintained, the real estate tax is rising one and a half times, and the number of car owners who will pay 25,000 dollars a year for their car is substantially increasing. Another blow will be inflicted on the health of the citizens. The increase in VAT on pharmaceuticals will lead to an increase in drug prices. The government probably understands where there will be profits as a result of failed socio-economic policies, finds the most profitable kind of business, and is going to regulate VAT itself on ritual services. We believe that in this way the budget and tax reform put the cross in the real economy, in small and medium-sized businesses. First of all, it is necessary to reduce taxes for manufacturers in order to save businesses that provide budget, wages, and jobs. Just as all countries have done in the wake of the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u3	Please welcome to the words of Jaroslav Moskalenko, the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u4	My native Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich! The MP's will is made up of 100 percent of the major MPs. We've all worked in the districts last week, and I don't think we'll find any deputies in this room who will say that people are satisfied with the situation in the country. I don't think we're going to find any deputies who will say that the authorities have fulfilled at least 50 percent of what they promised people last year. It seems that there are two worlds in the country today. In one world the mighty are living, and in another world the people are surviving. Tell me, do you realize that the loan in any form is kind of slavery? I've taken credit in my life. And if any of you are happy people who didn't have that kind of need, please step outside the walls of this Parliament and ask in the "loans of credit," people will tell you what it is. As a result, my tongue does not come back to discuss with you today a government tax reform based on the principles and conditions of Western creditors, which instead of glucose for business, proposes poison today. The People's will MPs will by no means vote in favour of the tax reform proposed by the government. Just a few examples. The government suggests that the agrarian sector should be able to absorb the circulation costs by cancelling the special tax regime. How to survive the top priority in Ukraine does not provide a recipe. The government proposes raising VAT by 13 percent. The government is offering to raise baby food by 20 percent. And it's all on the shoulders of people, young mothers. And all of this is when, last week, by Bill 3073, we're exempting coal imports from taxation until the time they pay it by 1 July 2017. I'm even afraid to predict what's going to happen to small and medium-sized businesses when 170,000 simplifieds go into the general tax system. And here's the main thing: budget and man. Very much has been said about this. Who knows, I'll remind you who didn't, I'll let you know. In 2000, Cabinet Order No. 656 was adopted, which contains a set of food for a working person for a month to function in a healthy manner. Thus, dear friends, the needs of an ordinary person should be at the heart of the country’s budget. Who gives people an answer about how to survive on a minimum wage of 1 thousand 378 dollars and how to survive on a minimum pension?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u5	Thank you. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u6	And how do you survive on a minimum pension of 1 thousand and 74 dollars when the cost of a minimum food basket is 1 thousand and 308 dollars? Retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u7	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u8	Retired people are not left at all for food, but for working minimums, and for every third person, 28 percent, we leave 70 bracelets for hygiene, housing, medicine and children. The People's will MPs don't support tax reform, we don't support the budget, and we don't even think that we're sane.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shipko, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u10	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to start by saying to Michael Gruszewski, "Poor Ukraine is governed by those who don't need it." What does Ukraine need today? Fast, deep, and, most importantly, irreversible changes. What do we have? Nonsystemic fragments and populism. There is a desire for people to change the country, but there is no desire to move in that direction at all. The promises we have been given for the second year in a row do not inspire trust in the Ukrainian people or in international partners. This authority is no longer believed at all, and in the meantime antinational laws are again being put in motion under the law of reform. Please tell me what has to do with reforms to introduce 20 percent of VAT into the new Tax Code. Did you have less than 7 percent that you entered in 2014 alone? You told people that drugs are cheap, and what do we have? The price of drugs has risen at a time, and 7 percent of VAT has become a "life tax"? Today, in the face of the total poverty of the people, 20 percent per cent per drug for chronically ill people, especially lonely people, is just a sentence. The Rebirth Party requires the government to stop social economic experiments on humans. You want to raise taxes? Create conditions for people like in Europe. If VAT is for medicine, there should be government programs that compensate for their cost. Where are these programs? If these programs are not available, insurance should work. Where is she? Today there are bills in Parliament that need to be adopted. The Rebirth Party registered a decree in May to review the cabal terms of state lending and a moratorium on the growth of the LHC. Bills on economic development, on village protection, on the cost of medicines and food. This, by the way, is in line with EU directives. Such laws must be adopted, not in the pocket of people. Do you think that people don’t see, don’t understand what you’re doing? Don't make people angry! Retire! Let those who can do the work. Ukraine doesn't need the Kamikaze government, Ukraine needs the government of professionals, patriots, people, faithful to its country and its people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u11	Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u12	I would like to say, colleagues, that there is now a huge city in Ukraine that is looking forward to our parliament with great hope. This is the city of Curve Rig. Three weeks ago, people came out on the street against forging elections, surprised the whole of Ukraine and surprised themselves. They hoped that the falsifications would be stopped by the state, stopped by the police, stopped by the Central Electoral Commission. They were expecting nothing, and after a week of expectations, people took control of the mayor, people formed public values, people started building real people in the city. What is most surprising and thrilling is that no glass has been broken, no face has been broken, no man has been hurt. But this great peace-lovingness, this great patience of people, is holding on to the expectation that the state will manifest itself. The so - called victory of Yuri Villkull in the election of the mayor of the Horn of Curve was achieved exclusively in hospitals. That's all we need to know about these elections. Among the healthy people in the 700,000 - year - old Bloody Rose, Yuri Wilkul lost, but he won among the sick. In order to get out of this situation, the city of Krivi Rig, many people of the Horn of Curve, who remain on the streets day and night, are asking the Parliament of the civilized, legitimately intelligent decision to appoint new elections in Bloody Rose. Yesterday, we received such a call from the Creature City Election Commission, which is cleansed of traitors who work under the protection of the people together with the police. We need to take this step now. The only thing that's left now is the forces that want to continue to create the DNR in Ukraine, it's a breakdown, it's blood, it's terrible provocations. So a big request from the poachers, a big request from all of us who came to help them, representatives of the various factions of Parliament: let's make this week's election in Bloody Rose, let's give people a reason to see the state and realize that the state is capable of defending justice, let's make the European way out of this terrible situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Who else is it from the factions? Please, Sobolev Sergei, Fatherland, please. Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u14	Sobolje, Fatherland. Undoubtedly, for each average person, the key question is: What about the budget? I think it's already turned into a series when the country lives for nine months without a budget resolution. Did you notice, fellow MPs, that we never got a budget resolution that we were supposed to get nine months ago? For 6 months, the country actually lived without amending the Tax Code, which could only be done by 1 July of this year. And for three months now, the country has been living without a budget that should have been introduced and delivered on September 15th, but it had to be officially presented to Parliament. What does this mean, and why is this done? Goal one: In fact, we have not received a budget supplement today, without which all the accounts currently posted on the Ministry of Finance do not cost the paper on which they are printed; in fact, the country does not have any prospects for how the country will continue to develop. We don't understand what's going to happen with the tax system, and the constant tax returns up to 20 percent are actually statements that are already driving millions of our citizens in the background, who still don't know how to survive them. What about the small business they're trying to put in conditions where big business is working today? Only a small business can't hide in offshores, it won't be able to apply commercial house schemes, it won't be able to apply payment schemes and dividends that pay only 5 percent of taxes today. What's going to happen to the agricultural sector that's trying to transfer tax on a single level with others? In fact, today's fiscal policy has led to the destruction of both small and medium-sized businesses and the most important sector of the economy that we're going to allocate to our work today, in fact, in the south, is the agricultural sector. In these circumstances, there is one possibility in the government: either to submit a draft budget without any currency, with additions, and with calculations, when everyone understands where the country is going, to submit directly all the issues relating to tariff policy, or to file an application for resignation and not torture this hall and the country of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u15	Please, Oleg Lazko, leader of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, leader of the Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! During this week, when Parliament declared a vote of confidence to the government, it adopted the Government's Action Programme. What is the conclusion of this activity, each citizen of Ukraine can feel in his own pocket. When we are told about reforms, including reports to international partners on reforms, commitments are made to other reforms (I read a report on the Internet yesterday), I have a question: who is the Ukrainian authorities, whether international partners or the Ukrainian people, or voters, who went and voted in May and a half years ago for President Prashenko, in November 14 they voted in favour of the new parliament that formed the government. To whom does the Ukrainian government serve? We certainly respect our international partners. Their support and assistance are vital, especially in the United States as our strategic partner. But, dear colleagues, when I read that Biden will come - corruption will come, Biden will come - order will come, Biden will come - reform will come. Why don't we pick Biden as president of Ukraine? He refused to run for presidents of the United States. So if we wait for everything, Biden will come for us, then Mogherini will come for it, then someone else will come for it, for what do we choose our authority? Why do we choose the President, the government, the Parliament, if we cannot do anything on our own? And to be serious, I am addressing the Ukrainian Prime Minister, the President, and the parliamentary majority. Stop demeaning the Ukrainian people, stop demeaning the Ukrainians. With these statements, you're actually admitting that we're not able to bring our home together without our foreign partners, that we can't overcome corruption, that we can't raise our standard of living. I definitely don't agree with that. We Ukrainians are a strong nation. We certainly have important international support, but no one, no one, is going to make peace in our home if we don't bring it up ourselves. We are a strong nation. We are able to cope with all the problems we face, and we will definitely overcome them. But to do that, we need to clean up the power. A government that is corrupt, a power that is criminal, an authority that continues to plunder even more after Midan than it has plundered to Midan. And don't distract Mr. Byden from his wife. Ask Ukrainian peasants what they live for, what Ukrainian entrepreneurs live for, what Ukrainian workers and pensioners live for. They're not going to tell you any worse than Byden. With respect to Mr. Byden, but with the utmost respect for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u17	The head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, December 11th is a year from the adoption of the government programme, formed by the coalition, "European Ukraine", which included five parliamentary factions. The coalition was formed with the participation of President Dustenk, whose political power received the largest quota in today’s government. It's been a difficult year together to solve complex problems. Together they resisted the aggressor, saved the economy of the state, and reduced the energy dependence on the Kremlin. The government has done its utmost to ensure that Ukrainians receive their salaries and pensions in time so that subsidies and social standards can be successfully implemented. Effective measures from deregulation have destroyed schemes to enrich corrupt oligarchs. There was a foundation for structural reforms in education and medicine. The actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, Arsenius Yatsenyuk, are approved by our Western allies. In the near future, we need to adopt tax reform and the 2016 budget, which should correspond to the memorandum signed with the International Monetary Fund and the Prime Minister and the President. The adoption of a balanced budget and a balanced tax reform will be a prerequisite for receiving the following financial aid tranches from Western partners. At the same time, we have to say that as December 11 approached, the government's information campaign was gaining momentum. The Russian propaganda minority, who has long been working against Ukraine and the Ukrainian authorities, has been joined by local populists who deliberately or unconsciously play the aggressor by disrupting the situation in the state. The situation is becoming more and more like the events of 2005-2006 when Yushchenka-Timoshenko's quarrels destroyed the achievement of the orange revolution. Then, as is known, there was a fatal rematch of Russian puppets from the Party of the Regions, and the current President of Poshenko was the victim of a fabricated corruption scheme. We can't repeat the tragic scenario again. We're supposed to keep our gains together, work together to take advantage of the historic opportunity to carry out reforms in our country, as our friend Joe Biden urged during yesterday's meeting with Prime Minister Yatzenuk. All branches of power and dominant political parties should be consolidated, shared responsibility for the economy, and avoided re-crete scenarios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Peter Dustenka's Block. He won't take a word. So, dear colleagues, we've completed our performances from factions and MPs, and we're moving on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. A vote is about to take place. There will be a speech by Vice President Byden at 11 o'clock. Until then, we have time to go through the maximum number of decisions that we have in our day - to - day schedule. And I'd like a colleague of the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. I ask the secretariat to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. So, dear colleagues, we have two draft laws and a day-to-day order. They are not conflictful. They have general support in the hall. And I'd like to actually support them. The first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (as regards the employment of graduates). This is just a day’s work, registration number 3312. Dear colleagues, can I put it to the vote? Then please get as close to your ballot cards as possible. I'll take the vote first. And I'm asking you to take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Higher Education Act (for the Employment of Graduates) (number 3312). Signal vote. Please vote. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:28:31]] For 196 Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. You can say a lot of loud words about self-sufficiency and power and Ukrainian power and parliament, but sometimes we lack basic discipline to be in the room and make decisions that matter to Ukraine. And so, not by word of mouth, but by deed, I ask you to come into the hall and start the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. I'm re-voting the bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act 3312. So, colleagues, I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs, not leave the hall. The heads of factions I am very much asking to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. So once again, a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please vote. Signal vote. Vote. [[10:30:24]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you for your support. It was a signal, I'm sorry. So now we are voting, not as a signal, but as a day-to-day draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (as regards the employment of graduates) (number 3312). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote, colleagues, please. [[10:31:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Our next project is to provide adequate medical care for those who have been injured during the Health Revolution. Dear colleagues, a few words about this bill. It actually predicts one norm: the possibility of treatment in Phoephania for those heroes who were injured in Maidan, those heroes with wooden shields who went against Berkut, who were going against armed aunts. And I think we need it and we need to put it into the agenda, and I think we need it immediately and we need to vote, it's an important symbolic action. And I'm asking everyone to pay attention. First, we're going to put it in the agenda, and then, during the discussion, I'm going to give the floor. So, colleagues, by first vote, please be careful, and I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Daily Draft Ordinance on the provision of adequate medical care to persons who have been harmed in participating in the Dignity Revolution (number 3508). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote carefully, please. [[10:32:46]] For 284 Please show the factions on the board. Thank you. So, colleagues, I would like to move immediately to his consideration of this decision. First, we will vote in favour of a reduced procedure for its consideration. I would like to support the consideration of the summary procedure of Decree 3508. Please support the simplified procedure. Vote, summary procedure. [[10:33:28]] For-195 Decision taken. From a group of authors, including Lucenko, and Tretlyaków, Zagorius, Burbak, Gavriluk, Sukhevitch, Janicki, Dechtirczuk. From the group of authors, I give the floor to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk for his report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u20	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, while driving through the Mainland of Independence, everyone could see Maidan’s once again shaved nerve — a burned-out union building. All the decorative pictures are taken from it, and we can remember again what it was like. The bill brings us back to the tragic events in Maidan, when many of the national deputies present were mere fieldmen. And our duty, our debt to those who were injured in Midan, is to adopt this bill today not only for inclusion in the agenda but also as a law. Phofania, which has been treated for decades with party and state bonuses, has to serve those who have suffered for this state, eventually for this Supreme Council. So I ask all factions to support this act of justice, of loyalty and solidarity for all who have suffered in Maidan, so that they will receive a worthy medical treatment and not only. It is an act of respect for them, an act of honor to those who have not regretted their lives and health by protecting Ukraine’s freedom and independence. On behalf of the Supreme Council, I would like to express my respect for the leaders of the Association of Wounded Taras Gathalak and Paul Sidorenka, who have grouped these people and have the privilege of defending their rights. They're the ones who initiated this law, and it's up to us to vote in this room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need to Discuss? I can put it to a vote. There's a need. Then please sign up: two for, two against. Please. Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u22	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! We, the People's Front faction, will definitely support this bill, and I ask all MPs to be more careful in this room and work harder because we have a very rich agenda, we have to work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u23	Please, from Peter Prashenko's Block, Vadatoursky gives his word or is he speaking himself? Please, Mikola Tomenko. Turn on Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to my colleagues for this initiative and I think we will support it in every way. However, I would like to take a strategic look at the situation that we raised when we discussed the funding system for the State Administration and, in particular, its medical unit. My colleague Musi and I, as you know, have initiated a decision to transfer all medical facilities to the Ministry of Health. Experts say there are positives and there are negatives. Instead, I think that not even the institutional component is very important, but the component that we treat there. So we can, in my opinion, add two words, in fact, to the issues that we and my colleague Musia and I have discussed. So we understand that the freedom, independence and dignity of Ukrainians protected our brothers in the Dignity Revolution, and today soldiers and officers defend freedom and independence on the fronts. And if the person in the ATO got, as it says here, "calculation, injury or other health damage," I'm absolutely convinced that he has the right to be treated and rehabilitated in Feofany medical institutions. So I propose after the words "persons who have been injured, crippled and injured during the Declaration of Dignity and Participation in the ATO.""and still by the text. So we're going to expand the category of people who will be able to heal, heal and rehabilitate. And this will be fair and just in relation to those who are protecting Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, the head of the Third Party Committee. Turn on Trelyakow's microphone. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u26	With regard to Decree 3508, I propose that it be adopted without amendment. What Nikolai Tomenko said was indeed his ruling. The Committee considered it. And so far, the State Administration is giving 250 kocks to ATO participants. This issue has already been resolved, and we have already voted in favour of it. Therefore, please take a decision unchanged, in a holistic manner, as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor, and please prepare for the vote. Today, we honor those who need treatment. Many of our friends died in the Maydan fighting, close friends, but many remained crippled, left with serious injuries. And to a large extent, thanks to the dedication and devotion of those young people and girls today, we can discuss, we can criticize each other, but we have fundamentally changed the civilizational course of our nation. We have fundamentally changed the development of Ukraine by directing it towards Europe, the Euro-Atlantic Union. And most of all, it was a war for Ukrainian Independence, and so our duty to all of us is to pay tribute to our new heroes, which is why we can be here today. Therefore, at the suggestion of the chairman of the committee, I am voting on the draft Ordinance to ensure proper medical care for those who have been harmed during the Health Revolution (number 3508) as a basis and as a whole. I would like to support you. I'd like to vote on the basis as a whole. [[10:41:07]] For 301 Decision taken. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we still have draft rulings that are not conflict-like either, which we have already included in the agenda. And I'd like to look at them in a simplified way. So, the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm drafting a Parliamentary Hearing Order on 30 Years After Chernobyl: Lessons and Perspectives. There is a request to consider the simplified procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:42:26]] For 211 Decision taken. I invite the head of the committee, Tomenko Mikol Volodymyrovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already taken several serious steps to ensure that on April 26, 2016, when it is 30 years old from the day of the Chernobyl disaster, we have raised funding for a number of projects for which Ukraine is responsible, together with international donors. Unfortunately, little is done, I hope we can do more for those people who saved us from the Chernobyl disaster. But there's a very serious problem that we've been discussing when the President of Chernobyl was holding a meeting and there was a meeting with the Prime Minister, which is what Chernobyl is after we've fulfilled our commitments. And these commitments basically end in 2016-2017. So we built shelter with a hundred-year guarantee, and we built key economic and energy objects. How are we still living with Chernobyl, what projects are we doing there? Do we implement them on our own or with international donors? And that's why the idea was for us to build a Chernobyl strategy after 30 years of respect for these rocks. A new management model is being discussed. And I support this management model, where the economic zone will be energy in the sphere of the Ministry of Energy, and the newly created biosphere reserve in the area of Minecology, and many other issues. But these strategic issues need to be discussed with experts, professionals themselves, and in order to reload Ukraine's post-Montenegro strategy for the next 10 to 20 years. The committee is therefore asking for support for the idea of holding such parliamentary hearings. And, Mr. Andrey, we are advised to have a free day on March 16th. On Wednesday, March 16, add 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we already have a list of the hearings that are scheduled for the coming period recommended: 09.12 – "Justice of Education Reform in Ukraine" (Grenevich, Education Committee), 16.12. – "On Health Reform in Ukraine" (Responsible – Bogomolec), 23.12. – "Stand and Road Safety Perspectives in Ukraine", and 03.02 – "Reforms of Information and Communication Technology and Development of Information Space in Ukraine". These are the hearings that are already scheduled. Dear colleagues, let's be responsible about whether there is a need to discuss this decision, or let's just vote so that we can get through more quickly. Is there support in the hall? Thank you very much. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "30 Years After Chernobyl: Lessons and Perspectives" with a proposal for a date that Mikola Tomenko made from the stand under the transcript (registration number 3425). The proposal is to vote as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote. Please support the total of 3425, please. [[10:46:14]] For-300 Decision taken. We have an extremely effective vote today. May we always be so united and united in our visions. We have the following draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the subject: "The State of respect for the rights of internally displaced persons and citizens of Ukraine who live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and in an area not controlled by Ukrainian authorities in the area of anti-terrorist operations" (number 3263). And there is also his request, from the author, under a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to support discussion 3263 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:47:11]] For 228 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in December 2015, there are 1,621,000 internally displaced persons in Ukraine under official statistics alone. The decision that is proposed for your consideration was made a few months ago. But since the date proposed, namely November 19th, has already lost its relevance to these hearings, we suggest, under the transcript, paragraph 1 of the decree to write it. To hold parliamentary hearings in February 2016 in the Chamber of Plenary Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme "Stand to uphold the rights of internally displaced persons and citizens of Ukraine who live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine". Given that the Supreme Council has not adopted the calendar plan for the next fourth session at this time, we suggest that the plenary minutes include the decision to hold these parliamentary hearings on Wednesday the second plenary week of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 3 p.m. Item 2. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by February 1st, 16th, prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine information and analysis materials distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies, appropriate proposals and recommendations. I would also like to point out that the Human Rights Committee does not object to any involvement in the preparation and conduct of these hearings by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement. Please support the Order on the conduct of these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u31	Honorable colleagues, both this one and the next, are merely to hold parliamentary hearings. There is also an offer to vote them out so that they can get as far as possible. Any backup, colleagues? Can we vote? I put to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on the subject: "The State respects the rights of internally displaced persons and citizens of Ukraine who live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (number 3263) as a basis and as a whole. 3263 as a whole. Please vote and please support. Please. [[10:50:10]] For 302 Decision taken. High potential. The following is the day-to-day draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The family policy of Ukraine is goals and objectives". And we're being asked by Chamber Arthur Leonidovich to consider it as a reduced procedure. Should we support our colleague? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:50:51]] For 208 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u32	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 22 April 2015, held a parliamentary hearing on June 17 this year on "The Ukrainian Family Policy - Goals and Tasks". More than 500 attended the hearings, including the national deputies of Ukraine and representatives of the government of central and local executive authorities, local self - government bodies, religious, social, and scientific organizations. All participants in the hearings came to the only conclusion that family politics should be recognized as a priority. The Committee therefore considers it necessary to unite the efforts of the authorities of the State, the local self-government authorities, the civil society institutions around the slogan "Investment in the Ukrainian family is an investment in the future of our state". The draft recommendations for parliamentary hearings were discussed carefully during parliamentary hearings. He was seriously involved in taking into account the proposals made by the participants and agreed with all interested government authorities, especially the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The project contains specific recommendations for improving family policies in various areas of life, namely, supporting vulnerable families in educational activities in preparing young people for marriage, improving health care, combating domestic violence, and so forth. Dear colleagues, please support the Ukrainian family and vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u33	Thank you, Arthur Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Please prepare for the vote. And we are voting for a draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations on "Family policy of Ukraine, goals and objectives" number 3466 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:53:10]] For 308. Decision taken. Our potential is increasing. And it can't help but rejoice. The next one is the day-to-day draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions (number 3110). And there is also a request from the chairman of the committee to consider the simplified procedure. Let's support the committee head. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:53:57]] For 213 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailnovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u34	Dear fellow national MPs! Today, we must fulfill our responsibility to vote in favour of the Supreme Council Award for Pedagogical Workers. These prizes are given by the district councils, and in the case of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, the respective administrations. These nominations, which were submitted and also considered by the committee, were all confirmed. And now, I urge you to vote. The Supreme Council Award has been established since 2006. Now, this prize is worth 20,000 dollars, and it's given to the best teachers in preschool, general, secondary and vocational education. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u35	Thank you, dear fellows. Is the Hall ready to support the head of the Committee of Greenwich, Lilia Mikhaylovna? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine award to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions (room 3110) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[10:55:59]] For 291 Decision taken. Make sure the potential doesn't fall. Be careful. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to one of the most important bills today, the draft law on Ukraine's system of innovation (number 2334a). I ask everyone to be careful, we will consider it in a second reading. And I ask that you pay attention to the authors of the amendments. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please go to the rostrum. An important bill, everyone please be careful and stay in your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A committee on freedom of speech and information policy prepared a second reading of the draft law on innovation. 192 amendments were made within the framework of preparation for second reading, and most of them were taken into account, in principle, an important bill. And during the discussion of this document, the audience expressed the position that Ukraine today needed to wage an information war. We've discussed a lot about what this innovation channel should be like, and we've concluded that it shouldn't speak on the territory of Ukraine in cable networks or in the analog system, we've come to the conclusion that there should be guarantees of financing this channel, that it should speak English and other languages. And if there is the will of the hall, a channel like this can appear in Ukraine. Please go to the repairs then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have to go through the amendments, and I'll call them soon. I ask the authors to respond when someone insists on their amendment. So 1 amendment, Danchenko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 5th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 12th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 14th, Chervakova. Don't insist. 15th, Chervakova. Don't insist. 20th, Kiral. Don't insist. 25th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 26th, Melnik. Don't insist. 28th, Olya Cervakova. Don't insist. 29th, Melnik. Don't insist. 32nd, Chervakova. Don't insist. 36th, Melnik, don't insist. 65th, Victoria Sumar, does not insist. 66th, Kiral, don't insist. Excuse me, insists, turn on the microphone, please. People's MP Kiral, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would just like to pay attention to the 66 amendments. The point is that in this amendment I would like to place emphasis on not being oriented towards the production and broadcasting of our own product, but more on the production and placement of our own product on existing channels or media that are already popular in one country or another. But we can't afford to ride with Russia, which spends $1.5 billion today on RT or other channels. Instead, we can work effectively with CNN, BBC, Bloomberg and other channels that already have hundreds of millions of audiences to produce products in INTU and put them in this information tool. So, colleagues, I would like you to support this amendment so that we can spend more effectively on the budget and not waste it on years of fruitless labor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar, please comment. Mr. Oleg Lazko, don't beat up the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u40	In fact, there's absolutely no denying it, but we have to understand that this is about creating a full channel. If this television channel is going to produce sales, no one really denies that they're going to produce television products that are going to be placed on others. But they can't focus on this, because the idea of the Ministry, which this bill was drafting, was to create a television channel itself. This does not deny the possibility of producing products. On the contrary, it's the only government channel that has to make money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention in the hall. There is a professional discussion, and it is hard to hear each other when there is so much noise and noise in the hall. Do you insist on a vote of 66 amendments? You insist. Amendment 66, National Deputy Kiral, who supports the amendment, shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:01:53]] For-188. I'm asking for your attention! The committee's offering to support her, isn't it? Please re-engage Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u42	The committee at its meeting turned it down. But the principal points are to support the hall. Because there was an emphasis here, literally, there's no contradiction to the logic of the bill. It's just technically what's the priority: the priority is to create a channel. But this moment, as one of the innovation problems, we can totally support it. Production of products for other TV channels working abroad So there's an offer, I think, to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the committee supports. Let's support the amendment. I'll put her to the vote again. We don't need her back. I'm voting once again on the amendment of 66 people's deputies, Kiral. Please be careful, please support her. We vote on Amendment 66. Please vote. [[11:03:00]] For 263 Decision taken. Hello. So, 74th Amendment, Shinkovich. Don't insist. 75th, Danchenko, don't insist. 83rd, Pawel, don't insist. 85th, Pawel, don't insist. 86th Dove, don't insist. 87th, Melnik, don't insist. 88th Lensky, don't insist. 89th, Chervakova, doesn't insist. The '90s, Danchenko, don't insist. 92nd, Chervakova, doesn't insist. 94th Wesselova, don't insist. Who insists? 93rd, Tomenko, partial count. Please turn on the Mikoli Tomenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the idea is that a good idea of an influential, authoritative and meaningful innovation channel should be filled with real meaning, because I think the formula proposed by the government is another UTR for budget money. So my amendment is that we understand what we're doing overseas. I think maybe I'm one of the few deputies that I've seen, which is this channel that goes in Ukrainian cable networks, in Ukrainian and in English and Russian titres. So I think it's a crime to use the budget to make another channel with English subtitles. So my amendment clearly states that this must be a channel, produced in English and other languages, then understood the logic. I don't understand why you should make a channel in Ukrainian cable networks that will watch less than today's First UA. By the way, let me remind you what we're good at funding today is the 21st and 22nd ratings of the First UA, which goes to a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u45	Please comment, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u46	Well, that makes sense. I don't object in any way. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u47	The committee or the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u48	The committee counted in part because the government's proposals included the production of Ukrainian and other languages in general. We have written English as required for the preparation of such programs, but the author’s position is to make an amendment in English and other languages. It's just a little bit of a different concept, the room has to be defined by what it supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u49	Thank you. So the committee took partial account of it. National MP Tomenko insists that the amendment be fully taken into account. Anyone who supports the proposal of the author of Amendment 93, Tomenka, to consider it fully, please vote. Please vote on who supports Amendment 93. [[11:06:12]] For 233 The amendment was accepted by the author. 94th Wesselova. Don't insist. 95th Sobolev. Don't insist. Yegor, can you hear us? It's your repair. Don't insist. Okay. 97th Condratiuk. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? 98th, again Condratuk. And she insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, as we continue to speak Mikola Tomenka, which refers to the language of the channel that we offer for innovation, we still want to notice and support my amendment, which concerns at least 50 percent of the English language. Because we know that the same channels that other countries run, like France 24 or Al Jazeera, they run languages. English, for example. And there are at least 70 percent of the English language. Instead, the propagandist channel "Russia Today," for example, runs three languages: it's English, it's Spanish, and it's Arabic. We need to understand that if we have a responsibility and we really want to create an innovation channel, it has to run at least 50 percent in English. Thank you. I ask you very much to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u52	Well, we've just approved an amendment that says English is a priority language, but there's no percentage, because there are other languages. Here's a detail that at least 50 percent is English, and other languages are already 50 percent. I absolutely do not deny that such a quota can take place. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u53	So the committee doesn't object. And I'm putting to the vote 98 amendments, National Deputy Condratiuk. And please vote. 98 amendments, please vote. [[11:08:30.]] For 239. Correction accepted. Welcome to the amendment. Let's move on. So 101st, Melnik. Don't insist. 103rd, Lensky. Don't insist. 106th, Dove. Don't insist. 107th, Victoria Sumar. Don't insist. 109th Condratiuk. Don't insist. 118th, Pawel. Don't insist. 121st, Danchenko. Don't insist. 125th, Sumar. Don't insist. 128th, Tomenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, now to the management system. I'll remind you of our discussion. We recently passed a bill on dispossessing printed media. Our logic is that in the media field, we have to maximize government and ministry control over how these media work. I don't want to talk about the fact that I don't believe that without commercial channels and a shared media holding, you can make a quality and competitive channel by one state, but that's a separate topic. So in this amendment, I propose that the logic of the channel manager's appointment be not the one proposed by the government that the minister has put forward, which means he's been appointed, and they're both in charge. If we have a system of oversight board in the idea of social television today, the supervisory board is chosen, the supervisory board appoints the channel manager, and the channel manager along with the supervisory board. The minister has nothing to do with this channel. The minister has absolutely different functions. So I insist on this democratic model of governance, and I ask you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u55	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u56	There's two concepts here. There's one of the concepts that Mikola Volodymyrovich is talking about right now, is when the concept, for example, of the German innovation of Deutsche Welle. There's the concept of American innovation, the same voice of America, which is totally national. So the concepts are different. Because in this case, we actually approved that this would be a government channel that would speak exclusively abroad, in fact, except for the satellite and the Internet. The programmes will be prepared in foreign languages, including English, and it is clear that the task of this channel will be to take a position by the state of Ukraine. Therefore, it is logical for the State and the State institutions to be responsible for them. We can also agree on Mikola Volodymyrovich’s offer. That's what the Supervisory Board will do, because there are these approaches in the world too, it's a model, let the hall be determined again and again. In this case, the committee supported that this was a state structure and that the state body should be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u57	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko insists on voting. You insist, don't you? Yes. That's why I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 128th People's Deputies of Tomenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:11:41]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. So 133-a, Kieral. Don't insist. He insists. Please. Turn on Kiral's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u58	I'd really like to go back to 133, but I want to go back to 131, which is partially counted. That is, to article 8, paragraph 3, where I propose that they be introduced to the Supervisory Board by one representative from the factions of the coalition. The argument is that since this is a channel of innovation, Parliament is also taking a position in external activities. We have a Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Euro-Integration, and so forth. There are certain political moments in which we take part. Plus, the Supervisory Board is not really an organ that quickly intervenes in the channel itself. It's also a supervisory board, it's an authority that controls and approves certain reports. So, I think even from the point of view of depoliticization, so that the channel doesn't go into some kind of vertical under one person or another, that would be appropriate. What's more, we have professional colleagues in every faction: and Victoria Sumar, and Mrs Zaleschuk, and Condratjuk in every faction, we have Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u59	Thank you. The thought is clear. Please comment on Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u60	Well, in this case, it's different concepts again, literally everything I said before. If the Supervisory Board is. has serious powers that we have not supported, yes, by appointment of the director, then there is logic to this. If it is, let's say so, to sanctify its function, then it doesn't make sense that much. So I'd like to ask you to identify yourself on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u61	We heard the committee's position. And I'm putting to the vote 131 the amendment of the People's Deputy Kiral, which is partially counted, but he insists that it be taken fully into account. Yeah? Anyone who supports the proposal of the People's Deputy Kiral, please vote. Please. [[11:14:11]] For-152. The decision is not made. Let's move on. 135th, Levechenko. Don't you insist? 140th, Danchenko. Don't you insist? All the amendments are included here. 162nd, Pavlovenko. Don't you insist? 163, Dove. Don't you insist? 164th, Danchenko. Don't you insist? 170th, Pawel. Don't insist. 183rd, Danchenko. Don't insist. 190, Danchenko. Don't insist. 192nd, Danchenko. Don't insist. So, your honor, we have passed all the amendments that have been made to this bill and we can vote on it. We can vote on it as a whole. Is there a need for a few more words, Mrs. Victoria? Then, dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, come into the hall and take your seats. This is an important decision that we have to make and the public that is going to become a very powerful tool in the information war led against us by Putin and the Russian Federation, which will be able to convey the word of truth to Ukraine in the world, and so it is important that we be able to vote in the hall. Did everyone take up their jobs? Ready to vote? I put to the vote the draft law on the system of innuendo in Ukraine (number 2334a) in second reading and in general. Please vote in second reading and in total 2334a. Vote. [[11:16:25]] For 282 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the drafters. This is an important decision that we have been able to make. The next one we have is the day-to-day whole block of agrarian politics. This is the first reading. And the next bill that we should consider is Bill 2027a: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (the only legal portion of the land and its object of real estate). And there's a proposal from the drafters to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support your colleagues and such an offer. 2027a followed by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:17:33]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich. It's a tribune, isn't it? Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u62	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, proposed a bill to address the issue of the transfer of land in connection with the acquisition of property rights to property objects located in such a land area. It is a situation where, for example, the owner of the property acquires ownership of the property, but ownership of the land itself remains with another person. And in practice, land rights are often transformed into a real problem. What's the problem? There's absolutely no legislation in force, absolutely no rules that force people to go to court to finally form the right to use that land. In the end, we have overloaded courts, problems with determining the status of the land user, problems with paying rent. To address this problem, the bill proposes to provide for a detailed procedure for the transfer of the right of use to the landowner, the new owner of the property located on the land. This order will be distributed to all types of use, such as rents, servitude, permanent use rights, and so forth. In general, the bill fills the gap in land legislation and fully meets the needs of practice. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u63	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on July 14th considered the bill. And I'd like to take a few moments to make it clear what we're talking about. The bill is further proposed by the Committee of Explainations. What if the owner of the land in which the property is located has to terminate the lease within 30 days if the property is acquired by a new owner and the lease of the land with the new owner. Also, to establish that the new owner of the property must apply to the owner (most often local authorities or executive authorities) within 10 days of acquisition of the property right to make a lease on the land on which the property is located. And failure to comply with these conditions is the basis for bringing both the owner of the property and the owner of the land to justice. I would like to point out that the committee is very often given appropriate references to abuse on both sides. First. At times, real estate is acquired, but after that, it is not easy to make a lease on land, actually in a legal colony and using real estate. The same is true of the other side. Very often the owner of the property is willing to make a lease on a land plot, but he does not have a proper response from local authorities. In order to address this situation, the committee has taken a decision and proposes to support the bill in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, will we support the need to discuss? Can we vote? Then I put to the vote the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the sole legal share of the land and its real estate object) (number 2027a) as the basis. Please vote for base 2027a. Please vote. [[11:22:15]] For 296 Decision taken. Please be more focused. We still had 300 votes. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of the legal status of agricultural land number 2028a. And there's a proposal from the committee to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:22:59]] For 203 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Bakumenko Alexandre Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the main function of agriculture in any state is medium-sized and small-scale farmers. And the first task of the state is to make life as simple as possible for such farmers by removing artificial administrative barriers. This is what a bill is aimed at amending some of the legislative acts dealing with specific issues of the legal status of agricultural land. We propose to simplify the process of farming, which in turn will increase the number of new farms and address the acute employment of the rural population. All Ukrainian citizens have the right to form a farm, regardless of their education and work experience. That is, farming does not require a workbook or an agrarian education document. The bill proposes to obtain land exclusively at auction and to remove administrative barriers to the acquisition and realization of land rights for farming. This will reduce corruption in land relations and complicate the implementation of shadow schemes to remove land from the moratorium, including by altering its purpose. The bill will allow legislation to establish the status of agricultural land as land for commercial, agricultural production. In general, the bill should not only ensure the effective development of farms but also contribute to the continued development of rural areas. Honourable deputies, taking into account the importance of this bill for the development of agriculture in Ukraine, please accept it as a basis and with an accelerated procedure for preparing it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u67	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kotowa Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting the previous bill. The main novels of this bill, which the committee considered on June 30 this year and approved it, are primarily to grant the right to create a farm for people without special education. To be honest, there's an issue there, but if you say that a person has lived, let's say, is 50 years old or 45 years old, and we force him to get a higher education in order to process this land probably not quite right, and he, I think he'll be able to manage how he can manage that land. The second question. This is, indeed, the question that was raised by the copyright team, what is involved in the assignment of this land and in fact the removal from it because it is not considered a land of agricultural goods, a moratorium on this land. This causes frequent abuse, often resells the land, and judicial decisions resolve the issue and so forth. In order to remove all these manipulations and very often corrupt things, the bill proposes a clear settlement. The Science and Experimental Authority claims that a bill can be passed on as a basis. The same is true of the committee. We ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, will we support the need for discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we support it? Okay! I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the regulation of the legal status of agricultural land) (number 2028a) as a basis. Please vote for base 2028a. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:27:29]] For 280 Decision taken. And the author suggested that we vote in favour of a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. And I'm putting this proposal of the author to a vote. If you support a brief second reading of the 2028a bill, please vote. Please. [[11:28:07]] For 197 The proposal is not supported by the hall, the decision is not taken. And the next bill, which we have in our agenda, is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption (number 2150a). And there is also a request from the committee to consider the simplified procedure. So please vote, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:28:54]] For 214 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u70	First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for the first time in this year's decision, and today we have, so-called, an agile day after the bill. Your attention is given to the draft Act (No. 2950a) amending the Ukrainian Act on by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. First of all, it should be recalled that the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Government Act on by-products of animal origin not intended for human consumption as early as April 2015. However, despite its Euro-integration orientation, some aspects have not been taken into account and are contrary to EU standards. So a consolidated work was organized with the participation of professionals, profile associations, the Ministry of Agar Politics, an agrarian committee that made their proposals and observations, which I want to express my gratitude to them from the author's team, because that's exactly how the bills have to be considered. All proposals were aimed at bringing this law into line with European legislation, such as EU regulations on the definition of organic fertilizers and soil improvers, complementing the list of by-products of animal origin belonging to the second category, and most importantly, the correction of the treatment of by-products. For information to dispose of a hundred tons of manure, the amount of waste from a thousand 200 pigs per day needs to be spent between 10 and 15 thousand dollars, and on large pig complexes, the amount to be disposed of is measured by millions. Today, no Ukrainian farm is equipped with sterilization facilities, since it is quite expensive. Also, sterilized by - products are no longer used as fertilizers for improvement. Under such circumstances, on the one hand, domestic landowners will be forced to carry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u71	Please finish 30 seconds, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u72	The solution to our nation’s important issue of increasing soil productivity, which will have a negative impact on the future development of agriculture, will be greatly complicated. In view of the above and taking into account the end of this year, please support Project 2150 and, in preparing it for second reading, shorten the deadlines for submission of proposals and amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u73	Thank you. The co - report is invited to invite the head of the committee, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u74	Colleagues concerning this bill were considered on July 14. Fully studied by our colleagues on the committee. I'd just like to add the following to what I'm saying. As far as European regulations are concerned, we have studied European initiatives on this issue, and I would like to say that, for example, EU regulation 178-2002 allows the production, composting or introduction of biogas with manure without prior treatment if manure does not pose a threat to the spread of diseases. So with regard to this bill, we specify that not all cases need sterilization under pressure from animal by-products of the second category. As Sergey Labazuk said, really, it's high-cost stuff. And when it comes to organic farming, after this treatment, manure does not bring any nutrients to the soil. Thus, in the context of the usefulness and use of organic fertilizers, this will certainly have a positive impact on soil fertility. Taking into account the findings of the State inspector, who exercises State control over the capacity of the processing, processing of animal by-products and sampling, the market operator decides to choose the method of handling by-products of animal origin in the second category. So we're actually giving the owners a choice. The Chief Expert Office recommends that it be accepted as a basis for the first reading. The committee made the same decision to support the bill in the first reading. And just as the authors would like to ask the committee to support the second reading of the bill by means of a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a specialized bill. Is there a need to discuss? None. Just one minute, please, Yuri Lewchenk, and we vote, we go to the vote. Please, Levchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u76	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill is very correct, with some clarifications. But here's the question of repeating some kind of fraud that happens in our Supreme Council. I am now addressing the Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Groysman, who, unfortunately, is not in his place of employment. Something that's probably happened about the 10th time that the Freebies are registering a bill a few months before the coalition, yeah. The coalition likes the idea of the bill, and they register it with almost a few of their laws, but somehow it goes to the Supreme Council's apparatus not as an alternative, but as a new bill. And it's the same case. So there's our bill that's even better than this one that's been registered a few months before that that hasn't moved anywhere. Yeah? And this bill, which is supposed to be an alternative, is now passed by itself. So let's please stop this political fraud, and I urge the Supreme Council's apparatus and the Supreme Council's Chief of Staff to act under the Supreme Council's Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm putting draft Law 2150a on the ground. At the committee's suggestion. Please, 2150 a is the basis. Please vote. Vote. [[11:35:34]] For 310 Potential. We're back in the hall. And there's a proposal from the committee, by a reduced procedure, to consider the second reading. Let's support the committee in this proposal: a brief consideration of the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:36:06]] For 212 I couldn't find a committee proposal in the support room. And we are moving on to the next item in the agenda: this is the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on minimum leases for land-based land-use areas on which hydrotechnical melioration is carried out (number 2920). There are also requests from the Committee, proposals for a simplified procedure. And let's support the offer. Who, for the sake of a brief consideration of the bill, please vote and please support. Please. [[11:37:00]] For 222 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Klanya Sergey Volodymirovich. I'm sorry. Gordjeev's Sergey Volodymyrovich. Gordyev will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u78	Anatolyovich. Dear National Deputies! According to Bill 2920, the amendments to article 93 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 19 of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act are envisaged. That is, setting a time limit of not less than 10 years for renting agricultural land, which is part of the meliorated land and where hydrotechnological melioration is carried out. To clarify, at the level of Ukrainian law, the obligation of tenants to contribute to the proper operation of appropriate melioritative systems in these areas. The bill is designed to take account of the provisions of the coalition agreement, namely paragraph 1.4. Paragraph 1.4., legislatively establishing the minimum lease period for agricultural land, as well as the promotion of medium-term and long-term leases. Unlike other farmers, land rentals require considerable funds to ensure the smooth functioning of the meliore systems needed to produce land. These costs are difficult to find without investment, which, in turn, cannot be involved without reliable mechanisms to protect the long-term nature. One important element of this protection must be an extended minimum lease period for meliorated land. This period should cover the total minimum lease period, which is 7 years and an additional 3 years, necessary for the manufacturer to build or modernize meliority systems, as well as for the reimbursement of the costs invested in the relevant melioration systems. In addition, an extended minimum lease period for meliorated land will contribute to investment in the long-term improvement of land quality. Applying optimum seismics and agrotechnical measures. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council recommends the adoption of Bill 2920 in the first reading as a basis. The Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food expressed support for the bill. The Agrarian Policy Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the law in the first reading as a basis. Please accept the bill in the first reading as a basis for the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u79	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered the bill. And it has already been said, a decision has been made, support it as a basis. And the only thing I'm going to say is, actually, the adjustments aren't big enough. We have already passed a law that allows us to have leases for a minimum of 7 years. The bill proposes to increase the meliority land to 10 years. This gives an additional 3 years. And I can agree, and the committee agreed with this thesis that these countries really require additional capital investment. And of course, the appropriate term will be helpful to owners who invest in this land and who, in due course, achieve the sum of their investments. The committee therefore requests that the bill be supported in the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, can we support this? We can handle it. Then we prepared for the vote. Please, everyone, please mobilize, come into the hall, take your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a minimum lease period for land parcels of land (number 2920). At the suggestion of the committee, it is proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 2920 on the base. Please vote. [[11:41:31]] For 304 Decision taken. Let's keep up the good work. The next bill, according to the agenda, is Bills 3006 and 3006-1. And there's a proposal to vote from the authors, from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. Let's support both the committee and the drafters. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:42:32]] For 213 Decision taken. We need high - tech guests to come more often, and we're going to have a good job in the hall. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Ivanovich, is invited to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u82	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! You will have before you a bill of 306 on amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts concerning the legal fate of land owners who have died. What is the problem with the bill? Many of the landowners today are pensioners, and many of them, unfortunately, have died without leaving their heirs. By law, if there are no heirs, the inheritance is transferred to municipal property by decision of the court. But this process in practice is moving, unfortunately, very slowly. How many of these lands in Ukraine, no one knows for sure. It's called different numbers. From 75,000 to 3 million hectares. So let's figure out the damage from this situation. Take, for example, an area of one and a half million hectares (at least the average rent now is about 750 dollars) and we have one and a half billion additional revenues to local budgets. And that's the minimum. What do we propose? First of all, now that the land area is located, for example, in the Mirgorod region of Poltava and its owner died in Kiev, in the absence of heirs, the area moves to Kiev. But let's think about who's more important than this land area: for the territorial community of the Poltava region of the Mirgorod region or Kiev? Probably for the Poltava region. The earth must serve the interests of those who live in a specific area. Thus, the bill provides for the transfer of land to the property of the territorial community at its location. The other one. We suggest that we give the court the right not only to local councils but also to creditors of the deceased and owners and users of adjacent land. I want to warn you of possible speculation. Neither the creditor nor the co-payers will pass the land, it will still be passed to the territorial community by procedure. A major problem with local councils is that they often simply do not know about a dead inheritance, and this is at today’s level of information. So we suggest that, one year after death, the automatic information should be asked through the hereditary register of Earth cadastre rights and come to the appropriate local self - government body. And now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u83	How much longer do you need? 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u84	An alternative bill will now be considered, and there is the principle of the distinction between our own and the alternative bill. Alternatives are offered to rural councils on their own, without a court decision, to transfer to themselves land of a dead inheritance. This will certainly speed up the process, but also the level of abuse, and conflicts will be large and will grow in order. That is why I propose and ask Parliamentary colleagues to support our own bill because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u85	Thank you. I'm sorry, you've exhausted the entire time you've been given. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vadatur Andrija Alexiyovich. But I ask you to be as concise as possible, to express your opinion and position without delay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The position contained in Bill 3006, is completely and completely reflected in my project, fraction one. The difference is how to solve the problem of recognizing an inheritance as a dead one. Bill 3006 does not quickly solve the problem. Why transfer everything through a court that's already loaded? The percentage of recognition of an inheritance is still going to be low. The land market will work in the shadows for a few years. It's not going to solve the problem, and it's not the change that's going to move the question from a dead point. My bill will immediately help to legally rent about 2 million acres [2 million ha] of farmland, and local budgets will be able to receive over one and a half billion dollars a year. Thus, the main difference in the bill is that local authorities do not have to go to court and undergo a complex and long - term procedure to recognize an inheritance as dead on land as an agricultural assignment through a court. They will be able to make such decisions on their own, which will speed up the transition of ownership to agricultural land to territorial communities. This will also give more authority to the territorial communities, which is consistent with the principle of decentralization of power. In addition, many agro-industrial associations of Ukraine participated in the drafting of the bill. In particular, the Agrarian Union of Ukraine and the All - Ukrainian Association of Rural and Rural Councils provided their support. The bill was developed by legalists of the analytical platform of the agro-industrial complex and is an initiative of the United States Agency for International Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u87	Please finish your sentence for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the draft law of trifle one is more extensive and perfect, called for a quick solution to the problem of recognizing an inheritance as dead and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u89	Thank you. And I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Land Relations of Kutov Taras Viktorovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u90	Thank you, colleagues. I understand that the responsibility of the moment, I will speak very briefly. The committee decided to support Bill 3006. Those that are promoted by my colleague Vadatursky, I hope they can be further developed into the second reading. The key point that we considered important in making such a decision was the creation of a legacy register and a corresponding information system that would combine information from all automated databases, and would thus, even in court decisions, be able to make decisions on the lease of a deceased inheritance very quickly. Please support Bill 3006 in the first reading as a committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Can we vote? So there's a committee proposal for us to vote 3006 on the basis that we take it as a basis and we're already preparing a bill for second reading. In this way, I put to the vote the committee's proposal for a bill amending the Ukraine Land Code and other legislative acts concerning the legal share of land (number 3006) on the ground. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the basis of 306. Please. [[11:50:21]] For 274 Decision taken. Although the potential is falling, we need to keep it high. And I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please. Dear colleagues, our next 1270 bill, is the second reading. But let's agree with each other so that we start his consideration of the bill, and when there's a speech, we'll pause his consideration and then we'll continue. Do you have an understanding of the hall, colleagues? Factions? There is such an understanding of the hall. Then I will review the next draft of the Law of Order of the Day, the draft of the Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code (to improve the transfer of land, alienated for social purposes, or for reasons of social need). It's a second reading. And I invite you to the report, once again, the head of the committee of Kutov Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the importance of the moment continues. I mean, the bill was considered in the second reading on April 20th. Five amendments were proposed. Of these, four amendments have been taken into account on the committee and one is proposed to be rejected. One amendment was taken into account editorially. I think it's Yuri Lewchenk's amendment. I think it was written by the committee just more technically, more deeply, let's say. I suggest. I don't know, are we gonna go straight? Five rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u93	Let's go. No, we will only consider the amendment that was rejected by the committee. Thus, a second reading of the bill will reject the amendment of Lensky’s first national deputy. Does he insist on voting, or does he insist that we vote? Don't insist. Very good! We can vote on the bill in second reading and in general. We finished our discussion of the amendments. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, and I'll put it to the vote. Mr. Taras, did you take your ballot card? Taras! Voting card? Then please return to your post to vote for your bill. Prepared. I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code (to improve the transfer mechanism for land, alienated for social or social purposes), (number 1270) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support Colleagues 1270 in second reading and in general. Please. [[11:54:06]] For 285 Decision taken. We move on to the next item in the agenda. This is a draft law amending article 50 of the Land Administration Act on simplifying the production of land-use projects, as well as a second-reading bill. And I invite you to the report of today's chief reporter, the head of the Committee of Agaric Politics of Kutov Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u94	I think that Ukraine's agriculture today is grateful for this important moment, which is in the Hall today, and with the MPs present, and with the attention given to our bill. The agar committee reviewed the bill on May 22, 2015, and it came up in fact, I recall, simply a closed circle arose, since the person interested in obtaining ownership or land use rights should, in accordance with the Land Administration Act requirements, first establish ownership of the immovable property on the property on which it is located and provide a copy of the legal documents for such a immovable property and vice versa. And so in fact, I'll just put it simply, there's no land documents, but there's house documents -- it can't be done in a circle. In fact, this applies, first of all, to some small rural buildings, garages, burials in villages, and so forth. So there's actually no need for the first and second categories of difficulty to provide additional law-making documents. Such documents are available for objects that refer to a higher category. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u95	Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u96	suggests that the bill be supported. Only 4 corrections were made, 2 are counted, 2 are rejected. If there is room, we will be grateful for the support of this bill in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we will support the head of the Agrarian Policy Committee. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Land Authority Act, 1280, second reading and generally. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Please vote. [[11:57:00]] For 319 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. I think it's very good that the last vote took place. Dear colleagues, Peter Poroshenko, president of Ukraine, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the President. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Arseny Yatzenuk and members of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] And also, dear colleagues, there is Mr. Joe Biden, Vice President of the United States of America, in Ukraine. And now the high guest, I would say without exaggeration, a great friend of Ukraine, is in the Supreme Council. And I want to invite him to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Vice President!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u99	[[Address in English]] () [[Translation in English]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u100	Thank you. What a privilege it is for me to present my country to such a distinguished audience. Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Council Head and members of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to have the opportunity to address you today at this moment, marked by a great chance, but also by great uncertainty for the people of Ukraine. Now the stakes for your country and the expectations of your people are as high as ever, because Ukraine, as you know better than I have, has already been in a similar situation. In the West, like here, we remember the Orange Revolution. We remember young women and men who fulfilled Midan ten years ago, who demanded that their voices and the results of their vote be respected. They did not want to give up, and they kept their false choices strong, and they made theirs. But history teaches us, and we know that Ukrainian leaders have failed to fulfill the promises of a democratic revolution. We saw reforms being implemented, and then we folded them together. We saw how the oligarchs, who were opposed to change, were removed from power and then saw them return. We saw reformers being persecuted and imprisoned for political revenge. The bright flames of hope for a new Ukraine were extinguished by the pervasive poison of cumulation, corruption, and kleptocracy. But almost ten years later, this flame of hope was rekindled by thousands of brave Ukrainians, many of whom are now in this room, requiring a new revolution — the Dignity Revolution. The world is dead. This time they were not going to let the way to a future that so many people in your country had dreamed of for so long. The world was terrified when peaceful protests were met with violence. But the people stayed in Midan day and night in front of the Berkut Sherings in full armor. For the first time since the Middle Ages, the bells of the Holy Council have raised anxiety, urging Ukrainian citizens to strengthen their brothers and sisters in Maidan. Tens of thousands responded to this call: bringing food, clothing, blankets, medicines, and help. And the world was watching. And I was literally on the phone with the then president, calling for restraint. However, the last storm did begin. In the midst of the ice and fire, the Celestial 100 who flew bullets from the roofs of the houses paid the highest price that true patriots pay in this world. Their blood and courage gave the Ukrainians a second chance of freedom. And their sacrifice, let's put it directly, has now become your responsibility. You have the historic opportunity to remain in history as a Council that laid new foundations for the freedom that the Ukrainian people so longed for. I don't want to remind you that this is a shared responsibility both for the President and for the Prime Minister and for the members of this highly respected body: you must all put aside small differences in order to make the Dignity Revolution a reality. My country was also born as a result of the revolution. But the struggle for independence began before the first shots were fired. It began when conscious citizens began to manifest themselves in the legislative bodies of all the regions that were then American colonies: Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia, which had very different interests – and proclaimed in each of their regions the inalienable right of people to be free. This was done in different languages, in different documents, but it was a fundamental right to be free. They took a vast continent, a wide variety of people -- what John Adams, one of our founding parents, once called a “reversible machine” -- and they put together a united representative democracy from this unturned machine, where people saw themselves, first of all, as Americans, and then as citizens of their regions. But our union, our community, remained incomplete, incomplete. 70 years later, we faced another test — the American Civil War, which nearly destroyed a young country at that time. Winning in the battlefield was not enough to unite our country. In order to abolish slavery and differences between different regions, to grant rights and freedoms to former slaves, the United States Congress met and amended our Constitution. Individual members of that convention practically lost their jobs in the name of the right decision. Everyone took a big political risk by taking a stand against influential opposition in order to create a real United States of America. In the end, everything was on the shoulders of extraordinary patriots -- people who were subservient to their own needs to the needs of the nation, their narrow interests -- the need for unity. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the President, the government, every member of this government, is now facing a similar task. In the words of the early American patriot Thomas Payne, “human souls are being tested in these times. ” This is the time that tests the souls of your people. This is your time, this is the responsibility of each of you. If you'll excuse me for being so important to you in your own room, each of you is responsible for taking advantage of this opportunity created by the sacrifices made in Midan, the sacrifice of the Heavenly 100th. Each of you is obliged to respond to the challenge of history, and finally to build a united democratic Ukrainian nation that will endure the trials of time. Edmund Burke best said that in 1774, when he addressed his voters in Bristol, England. He said, "Parliament is the advisory body of one nation, one nation with the only interest in the entire nation, where not the local goals, not the local prejudices should govern the general interest, but the general good." And I respectfully suggest to you that this should be a standard for each of you, according to whom you will be judged. This is the standard according to which your grandchildren, your grandchildren, your offspring will judge you: Have you had enough moral courage to put the common good ahead of local prejudices? You can do it. It's all in your hands. No one's got yours. You can steer the course of this nation's history towards greater justice and opportunity for your people, and do it now. Over the past two years, I have been given an extraordinary opportunity to meet with representatives of various parts of this country -- East and West, including the illegally occupied Crimea -- representatives of various spheres of civil society, members of this authority, with military leadership, with your priests. I met people who were standing on the Maidan -- and some of them are now members of this authority -- and I was there yesterday. It's only worth looking at a picture of this Celestial 100 on a monument created spontaneously in the place where I visited yesterday, it's worth just looking at these pictures. It's not a hyperbola. I'm not trying to. - it's a reality. As a foreigner, all I have to do is look at these pictures, pictures of young people in their 20 ’ s, and those in their 80 ’ s. Each of them stood for a general purpose — the Dignity Revolution. My father, when I was growing up, always said: Every man, man, or woman has the right to be treated with dignity. Everyone. And that's what your new revolution was about -- dignity. These martyrs produced eternal ideas and ideals, universal values that unite people around the world. I've been to almost every corner of this world. Perhaps there are very few countries that I have not yet been to. Since my election as vice president, I've traveled over a million miles. The whole world is watching you. That's a fact. They are watching you because they hope that your success in your fight against the ruthless aggression of the Kremlin and against the cancer tumor of corruption will affect them. In both of these battles, you have the firm support of the United States and the American people, including nearly a million proud Americans of Ukrainian origin. You also have the united support of Europe – Western, Central and Eastern Europe – all interested in your democratic success, because your success directly relates to the whole, free and peaceful Europe. Do you fail to see if this experiment will fail? I'm really not exaggerating when I say that all the loving peoples of the world are supporting you, because so much depends on whether your fragile experiment with democracy will succeed. It is equally important, by the way, that the aggressors around the world realize that they cannot use force and bribes, by transferring tanks and fighters across borders, to quench people's dreams and desires. If you win, this signal will spread all over the world. In the winter of 2009, the President asked me to go to Europe and speak at a conference in Munich, to talk about the principles that our administration governs, about the fundamental elements of Obama Bayden's foreign policy. I'll repeat what I said then. I then said that we would not recognize spheres of influence in any country. Sovereign States have the right to their own decisions and to choose alliances according to their own will. That's it. That's it. Period. (Applause) In the 21st century, countries cannot – we cannot allow them to cross borders by force. It's a fundamental rule. If we don't hold them off, we'll destroy it. Russia has broken these rules and continues to violate them. Today, Russia occupied the sovereign territory of Ukraine. I want to make it clear that the United States won't admit it, and they'll never acknowledge the Russians trying to annex Crimea! (Applause) That's it! Simple! There is no justification for this. Russia continues to throw its troops, its bandits across the border, Russian tanks, and missiles at Donbassa. The separatists are organized and managed by Moscow! Moscow! (Applause) Therefore, the United States will continue to stand with Ukraine against Russian aggression. We provide support to the Ukrainian security forces in teaching and assisting them. And we have united the world in support of Ukraine, and we trust in it. I spent many hours, like the President, communicating with the Heads of State of Europe and the world to explain to them that one of the tests on whether they are our allies or not is to support your cause. America and Europe are now united in their commitments to impose severe economic sanctions on Russia. And as long as Russian aggression continues, the price paid by Moscow will continue to rise. The lying propaganda that the Kremlin is spreading in an effort to counter Ukraine and undermine Europe’s resolve will not work. No one should mistakenly accept the throwing of weapons and the suspense of force. Let me repeat: No one should mistakenly accept the throwing of a weapon or the intrusion of a force. We are now taking steps to support Europe's ability to resist Russian intimidation tactics. At this point, we are strengthening NATO, increasing energy security, helping to boost economic recovery across Europe. The United States and Europe will continue to exert pressure until Moscow fulfils its obligations under the Minsk Treaties. Although some progress has been made in destabilizing violence, sanctions cannot be lifted until Russia executes all of them! - his obligations under the Minsk Accords. (Applause) I might add in parentheses that I think the Russians don't quite realize what Putin's doing. That is why he has been hiding from his people the presence of Russian forces in your country for so long. Heavy weapons must be removed from the front line. Full and unfettered access to the OSCE should be granted. Russia must press separatists to hold elections according to Ukrainian legislation and OSCE standards, and also renounce the illegal elections that have taken place. The hostages held by Russia and its forces must be returned. The Russian military must return home. The Ukrainian side of the border should be brought back under Ukraine's control. Only if Russia does so – in this case alone – will it be necessary for Ukraine to comply with its obligations, which are yet to be fulfilled, which includes granting amnesty to persons who have not committed serious crimes and decentralization of administration for Donbas. But we made it clear to Russia and the world that further delay would not be acceptable. This includes the elections at Donbass, which are to take place in line with the Minsk Treaty. Full media access must be ensured, Ukrainian political parties should have the right to compete in the elections, full and unhindered work of the OSCE election observer mission, the Donbass movers living elsewhere in Ukraine must be granted the right to participate in the elections. All weapons must be removed and transferred under the control of the OSCE. This will only happen if Russia fulfills its part of the obligation. If she does, then you must fulfill your obligations. Because it is the best way to keep Donbas in Ukraine, to solve the conflict, and to begin restoring Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. (Applause) Of course, it's hard, it's not easy in what you have to do, no, the pressure on you is going to be huge. I also want to go directly to the people in Donbas. The alternative to what I've just said is to continue living under separatist bandits, criminals who refuse humanitarian aid are not allowed by organizations like Doctors Without Borders, and they're stealing life-saving drugs for sale in the black market. This is not the future. This is not the future I think any Ukrainian wants for his children. That is why full implementation of the Minsk Accords is needed. Having a truly free, fair election is what scares the Kremlin the most. Not only do they need your territory but they are also afraid of your success. Because when free elections take place, people will decide, I'm sure they want to remain an integral part of Ukraine, that they're Ukrainians first, and that's what scares Russia, that's what scares Putin. You all probably know that the struggle for freedom of Ukraine is not limited to fields of battle in the east. Constitutional reforms, which include judicial reform and decentralization, do not weaken your sovereignty. They strengthen him. And this is very important for Ukraine's future in Europe. It was this problem of federalism that almost prevented the formation of our state. Autonomous independent states, their intention to have their own police, their intention to have their own educational system, to have their own government under the United Constitution. But in addition, you have another fight, a historic fight against corruption. Ukraine cannot afford to lose hope again. The only thing worse than a lack of expectations is to see that the resurrection hope wanes over and over again because of corruption. If people allowed themselves to be exploited because they were afraid to lose what they had a little bit, that would be the end of Ukrainian democracy. We've done so much already. But you all know that you have to do more and more to complete this path. It's not done yet. Both the Prime Minister and the President have heard me say often: I never tell other people or countries of interest. But let me tell you, you're not going to be able to tell me any democracy in a world where there's a cancerous tumor of corruption. You can't name a country like that. They're completely incompatible. And it's not enough just to set up a new office to fight corruption and introduce a special anti-corruption prosecutor. The Attorney General's Office is in dire need of reform. The system has to be rebuilt. The energy sector should be competitive and governed by market principles, not by love agreements. It is not enough to enact laws to increase transparency regarding the sources of income of officials. Senior elected officials must dispose of any conflict of interest between their own business and their government responsibilities. This system belongs to all the other democracies of the world. Whether the oligarchs or not the oligarchs should all act by one rule, they should all pay their taxes, settle their disputes in court, not by intimidation of judges. That's the point. That is how nations succeed in the 21st century. Corruption sucks out resources that don't reach the people, it slows down economic growth. We know that. You know that. Ukrainians know that. When Russia wants to use corruption as an instrument of coercion, then reform is not just good governance, it is self-preservation. It's for the national security of the country. Russia is trying to undermine Ukraine's stability and sovereignty as much as it can, including through financial pressure, to undermine your economy. They think it's cheaper than sending tanks through a collision line. So Ukraine must be strong enough to choose its own future. It must be strong in defence, strong in the economy, and with a strong system of democratic governance. The United States stands with you in this fight. We understand that we support you from afar. This is a much harder job for you than it is for us. We have increased state aid to prevent your economy from turning back. We have already organized an international community to provide 25 billion dollars of financial assistance to Ukraine through bilateral and multilateral mechanisms. Including $2 billion in credit guarantees from the United States as well as possible additional funds. Yesterday, I announced nearly $190 million in new US assistance to Ukraine to fight corruption, to strengthen the rule of law, to make very important reforms, to support civil society, to promote energy security. In general, our direct aid is almost $760 million, in addition to credit guarantees, since the crisis broke out. And that's not all we're willing to do if you keep moving forward. But in order for Ukraine to continue making progress and to have the support of the international community, you need to do more. To a large extent, serious reforms are needed to make progress in your IMF program. And they're really heavy. And I want to tell you that all of our experts at the State Department, from our research institutes, always say, "Oh, you know what you should do? Take care of your pension, do it, and do it." Of course, it's easy for them to say. Even we have a hard time doing that. Voting for a retirement age is, in many places, writing your political obituary. And we're all in our positions in other democratic institutions, and we understand what difficult conditions you're facing, how hard it is to find the required few votes to vote in order to meet the IMF's conditions. To that end, it is necessary to sacrifice to a variety of people that may not be politically appropriate or popular. But such donations are vital to get Ukraine on the road to a future that is economically secure. And I urge you to endure to the end, however difficult this may be. Ukraine needs a budget that meets your obligations to the IMF. Something else will be a threat to the progress made by Ukraine with great effort and will reduce Ukraine's support by an international community, support that is fragile, always fragile. We continue to make sure that this support is found. The Ukrainians have struggled for a long time to control their fate in order to take their place near the mighty Dnieper to establish their identity, proud and expressive. And the great poet Taras Shevchenko wrote verse after verse, singing the spirit of Ukraine, and urging the Ukrainian countrymen to rise up and demand their will. His poem “The Covenant” ends with these words, and I quote it now: And me in the great family, A Free New Family Don't forget to change your mind. That's a pretty quiet word. Perhaps one day you will remember me in a very quiet way. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, I will always talk about Ukraine. I'm going to talk about the writer who got beaten up in Maidan, who went to the hospital, and when he was asked why he was willing to take the beating and suffer the pain, he said that people who didn't protest the injustice didn't have a future. I will talk about a young mother who has given up a favourable career to work on government reform. And when asked why, she said, "I can't fight in the east of the country because I have two children, and that's the only thing I can do for my country." I'm going to talk about a student who was distributing food in Maidan, and who later answered the question that changed over those months: "Now people are thinking about what they can give to Ukraine, not what Ukraine can give to them." I'm going to talk about men and women in this institution, about your authority, the representative body freely chosen by the people. I'll talk about what you've sacrificed. About Nadia Savchenko, an innovative Ukrainian pilot who has been elected to the Council, even though she has been imprisoned in Russia until now. I will talk about her courage and the courage of many others. I will tell you that it is up to all of you to have the people of this earth, this strong family of people, the Ukrainian family, forever free. This is Ukraine’s time. Maybe this is your last chance. And please, for us, for everyone's sake, don't waste that time, don't waste that opportunity. Take this opportunity. Build a better future for the people of Ukraine. When I was a young senator, I was a very well-known politician in the United States -- in another than my own party, with a very different ideology. But one day he said: “In your heart, in your soul, you know what is right and what is right. You know. Then do it." And if you keep going this way, if you're going to do what you're asked by the Ukrainians, you won't have to doubt that the Americans and the Americans are standing side by side with you. I was wondering if I should go in front of you. And that's not because I don't care enough about your country. It's just that as a person who was a senator for 36 years and who sat in a place like yours now, I didn't always approve when a foreign leader stood before us, because it looked like he or she was reading us a lecture and teaching us what to do. I don't want my speech to be seen as a lecture or a strict instruction. That's not my intention. It's just more human, I have such a hope for what you can do. This will go far beyond Ukrainian borders. One day, as a young senator, I went up from my seat for the first time and took the floor at the Senate meeting -- and I was never afraid to speak -- and I stood up and suddenly realized that my job was exactly where Senator Daniel Webster was speaking. Honestly, it was. And for the first time in my career, I was numb, for I realized that, oh, God, one of the greatest actors in our history was standing here, in this place. And I thought that they felt back then as members of Congress, who created us this freedom, this free and great nation. Now you're in the same position. And that's not hyperbole. You're sitting in places like this. And if you succeed, you will be the founder of the first truly democratic free Ukraine. What an extraordinary responsibility, which is an incredible opportunity to serve your country. Thank you very much for being able to address you today. May God bless both our great nations! And may God protect our armies! (Applause)
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in the most difficult times, it becomes clear who is your friend and who is your enemy. And we can say today with responsibility that the United States is a great friend of Ukraine on the two fronts that we are leading: on the front against the Putinian Russia and on the inside, with corruption. And so, dear colleagues, I want to remind you of Roosevelt's words that there can never be a compromise between good and evil. And that is why we must never compromise in war in the East or in the fight against corruption. And I'm sure we can win on both sides of the Ukrainian front. Now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And we'll meet in the hall at 1.05 p.m. I'm calling a break, and at 13.05 we're meeting in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the time taken for recess is exhausted. And I propose that we continue our consideration of the issues of order of the day. Is there support in the hall? Then I ask all fellow delegates from the coulaires to return to the hall for their jobs. Please inform the Supreme Council secretariat that we continue our work, not as simple as it is necessary for Ukraine. We are currently considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (as regards the introduction of seed and seed legislation in accordance with European and international standards) (number 1460-1). This is a draft law already in second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Land Relations of Kutov Taras Viktorovich. Please welcome. Please report. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u103	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, laws are very important, and a lot of work has been done. I'd like to take a short walk, I've got a three-minute schedule, but I'll try to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u104	I'll continue, you can say as much as you need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u105	Thank you. I'm just going to remind you that on the first reading of this bill we adopted on April 8th. The committee had quite a discussion of the bill. During our work, we received a letter from the General Legal Office with comments that we carefully processed. And we think that before the second reading, a document was prepared that reflects the balance of the interests of the state, of the seed market. The committee’s second reading included 108 proposals for legal entities. Of these, 88 were included, including in part and editorially, 20 amendments were rejected. Rejected proposals were rejected because they conflicted with the concept adopted on the basis of the bill, creating obstacles to Ukraine's commitment to the gradual approximation of Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation. I would like to focus on some important questions and changes that you can see in the text for second reading. First, given the need for deregulation of the sector, the reduction of the burden on the state, the constant restructuring processes in the authorities and the need for continuous food security of the State is proposed to partially liberalise the seed certification market in Ukraine. How this will be done in practice. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food will be the authority responsible for certification, that is, it implements seed policies. It will be able to regulate certain types of work to its budgetary institutions or accredited bodies by assessing compliance and to the auditors from certification, including private ones, which are very important. At the same time, I would like to point out that the work on the class certification of seeds of the basal and base categories will not be carried out solely by government authorities. Also noted were the legal authorities regarding the procedures for delegation of authority and the need to do so. But here I'm going to say that this practice is in line with European legislation, as well as the sort certification schemes that we joined as a state. Secondly, in this bill we simplify the certification procedure of seed producers by replacing it with a declaration principle, provided that the minimum criteria are met. This will greatly facilitate the work of all Ukrainian seed companies and simplify the planning of seed production. Thirdly, with regard to the registration of plant variety rights, once again, with the thought and experience of reorganization, we propose that the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and Foods be attached to the function of registering new varieties of plants. Expertise in the classes itself will be able to carry out authorized expert institutions. In general, the recent amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Plants Rights refer to procedural aspects and provide a definition for all market participants. In general, the committee is sure of that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u106	I'm asking you to give the reporter the opportunity to complete the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u107	In general, the committee is confident that the project corresponds to European legislation and Ukraine’s accepted international commitment. We believe that it will help develop the seed market and speed up the exportability of Ukrainian seed to new markets. However, in connection with the reform of the seed certification bodies, it is possible that there will be a situation when the State Department of Inspection is eliminated and the new system is not yet operational. This will put the entire seed market at risk. In this regard, it would be necessary for the ISTA Certificate Recognition Bill to work immediately, not six months after the law entered into force. In this regard, we propose that section III, paragraph 1, of the bill be drafted in such a way. This law takes effect six months from the date of its publication, except for section I, paragraph 10, of the recognition of ISTA certificates, OECD paragraphs 2 and 3 of this chapter, which is effective from the day of its publication. I ask the deputies to support the decision of the committee on the adoption of this bill in the second reading and in general as a law and to entrust the legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in preparing the law for signature with appropriate technical and legal remedies. Thank you for your attention. As far as rights are concerned, I'd like to consider an amendment. Amendment No. 100 of the Muggle People's Deputy's Deputies, it's actually accounted for. Therefore, in the fourth column, you will see that it is not noted, as it repeats the current norm of article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plant Variety. So it's actually counted, but we're leaving it as it is in the current law. As far as the amendments are concerned. I'd like to take a look at the amendments that are rejected, maybe that'll remove the question. When we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u108	And we'll walk them all, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I ask the amendment authors to prepare themselves. And we're going to go through all the amendments that have been rejected by the committee, and every author will be able to stand up for his amendment. A large number of amendments have been made. Many of them are included or included in part. I'll call only the ones that are rejected, but each of the authors of the amendments will be able to raise their hand and stand still for their amendment, even if it is partially counted. So, of the negatives, 7th is Lensky, is he insisting? Lensky. Don't insist. 8th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 16th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 17th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 24th, Lensky. Don't insist. 25th, Gordyev. Don't insist. 31st Lensky. Don't insist. 32nd, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 34th, Gordyev. Don't insist. All adjustments are included. Yeah, 53rd, Kulinich. Don't insist. Counted, accounted for. Out of the 76ths now. 76th, the author is Lensky. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. 77th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 82nd, Keith. Don't insist. 87 Amendment, Lensky. Don't insist. That's wise. 94th Amendment, Lensky. Don't insist. 96th, Brainy. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. A vote is about to take place. I ask the faction secretariat to inform the deputies to enter the hall, and the heads of the factions to mobilize the special warehouse. 97th Amendment, Keith. Don't insist. 103 amendment, Keith. Don't insist. 104th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 107th, Fries. Don't insist. Thus, colleagues, all the amendments that have been tabled by the deputies have been made. I ask the chairman of the committee for a final word, and we will proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, we had high potential for a break, let's keep it after a break. So now it's Angular. Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u111	I beg you, Gregory Mikhailovich, if you ask me about the 100th. What's that? 28th?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u112	27 amendments. Please comment. What an amendment, please tell me. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u113	I would like to point out that there's an article in the Comparative Table that suggests replacing the term "expertise, is paid by payment of services." Why so? Has he addressed you, too, Taras Viktorovich? Because as early as 2007, the tax code was written down, and the congregation has a clear definition. The assembly is a direct source of funds into the budget. And we're going to Europe today, and tomorrow the institute will join the European Association. How will the institution develop? He needs to leave this part in the incision there and write it as a service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u114	Gregory Mikhailovich, then I'll ask you now, read this text, because it's not mine, or pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u115	Please read for the transcript, or let the committee head read it, and we will be voting for it under the transcript. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u116	In fact, in the closing word I wanted to reflect this story. We have, in fact, a discrepancy that then relates to budgetary issues, so it's proposed in article 27, it's actually technical there, it's adjusted, it's reflected in the following way: In the first part of the second paragraph of Article 27, “the payment of the relevant congregation for each year of expertise shall be paid by the appropriate congregation” shall be replaced by “the payment of the services of an expert institution”; Paragraph 2 of the second paragraph reads: "The payment of services for the conduct of the qualification expertise shall be carried out on contractual terms for each year of expertise within two months of the date of receipt of the report of the expert report of the previous year"; And part three of the paper says, "The size of the salary for services in the provision of qualified expertise for classes that do not go to the competent authority or expert institute of expertise on the suitability of the variety for distribution is less than the size of the salaries for the analogous products for varieties that undergo such expertise." We don't object to that formulation, because it actually just corresponds to other laws, rather directly, budgetary things. My colleagues, I was going to say that those amendments that weren't counted, they're actually duplicated by other amendments. The vast majority of the amendments were rejected, as amended by the 4th National MP John Miroshnichenko, and she had many definitions regarding, she actually counted. Similarly, 52 amendments were taken into account, which overturned many other amendments that were rejected. With this in mind, I ask the deputies to support the committee's decision to adopt this bill in second reading and in general as a law, and to entrust the legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the preparation of a bill to be signed with appropriate technical and legal remedies. Thank you for your attention. And, Mr. Chairman! I'd like to take into account the first bill after the break, maybe make a signal vote so that we can determine the potential of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u117	I'll do that. Thank you. But first of all, I invite MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. I'm asking you to invite a fellow MP into the hall, heads of factions. I'm asking the Radical Party. A radical party. Call your colleagues, let them enter the hall, let them support the seed and planting, it's important. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, so I'm going to put it to a vote, but I'd like us to avoid this practice. I'm asking for jobs, and I'm voting on a draft bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (number 1461) in the second reading and in general. I'm asking you to make a signal vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Signal vote. Please. [[13:32:01]] For 207 Dear colleagues, I urge you to come into the hall. I'm asking you very much, colleagues who are in the towers, entering the hall, taking up jobs. We need to bring the seed and planting into European and international standards. It is everyone’s responsibility. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the vote is taking place. I ask you not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. Please go to your places of work. Once again, I am announcing a signal vote in favour of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (number 1460-1), a signal vote. Please participate and vote. Signal voting for second reading and in general. Are you coming? Let's go. John, be responsible. You've been called by the Vice President to be a responsible politician. Please vote. Signal vote. [[13:33:40]] For 230 We've restored the mobilization in the hall. Ready to go to work. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (with regard to the introduction of seed and planting legislation in accordance with European and international requirements) (number 1460-1) with those comments that the chairman of the Taras Kutov committee announced with technical and legal rights. Thus, draft Law 1460-1 is put to the vote in the second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:34:36]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to both the committee and the seed and the planting. The next item in the agenda is the draft Act amending article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the non-delaying of periods of sanitary, veterinary and environmental control of humanitarian aid). Bill 1509. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities, Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, your attention is given to Bill 1509 of the People's Deputies of Constantinople on the amendment of article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (in relation to the prevention of delays in the conduct of sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, radiological and environmental control of humanitarian assistance). The main objective of Bill 1509 is to reduce as much as possible the time frame for the conduct of sanitary, veterinary and other humanitarian controls, which today especially needs our defenders in the east, a peaceful settlement affected by hostilities. I mean, in fact, we should have passed that law a long time ago. We were still discussing it in the summer. But his turn came only now. The bill provides for the following. First, on the date of the decision on the recognition of humanitarian aid products, the decision is posted on its official website. Second. The decision, which is already available on the official website of Minnesota, is the basis for all types of monitoring. Third. Problems to monitor, if necessary, take place within one day of the contact of the recipient of humanitarian assistance. Fourth. The overall verification period shall not exceed eight days. And only with a special decision by the head of the monitoring body can this period be held for up to 30 days, to the maximum. I would like to point out that this rule has been further discussed. But we kept it because there are those types of controls that may last for at least 30 days. There is a special responsibility on the part of the head of the body because he personally signs the order. Fifth. According to the case of humanitarian aid products, the tax authorities will receive electronic aid, which accelerates the process. Sixth. The responsibility of State-organisms is being imposed for violating the time limit for the recognition of humanitarian aid on the website due to a breach of the control period. The second reading was amended by 12 amendments. Of these, 7 are accounted for and 5 are rejected. By a decision of the Committee of 7 July (underlining) this year, the bill was adopted as a law as a whole. The Chief Legal Directorate of the Bill made no comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u119	Thank you. But we must follow all the amendments that have been rejected. And I ask the amendment authors to prepare themselves. So the 3rd amendment. National Deputy Gorvath. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Four. Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 8th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. 9th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 10th, Shinkovich. Don't insist. Thus, all amendments tabled by the deputies are considered by the committee, and which are not counted, the authors do not insist. And we're ready to go to the vote for this bill. Please, I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Mr. Stepan! Mr. Stepan, I'm asking you to take a job. You're ready, aren't you? Mr. Stepan Kubi, we have to vote, we have to work, Ukraine is calling. The bill amending article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (No. 1509) is put to the vote in the second reading and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote, please support 1509 in second reading and in general. Vote. [[13:40:05]] For 246 Decision taken. Welcome to both the chairman of the committee and the drafters. Dear colleagues, the next two bills in the agenda, 2279 and 2558a, which were to be reported by the chairman of the committee of Kutovy Taras Viktorovich, unfortunately the tables did not come. Two for. 79 is already there, isn't it? Yes. The 2558 table is gone, and 79 is. And that's why I'm inviting you to the interview. One second, one second. Dear colleagues, there's no table on your hands, the tables are just handed out. So come on, I have such an offer that we respect the deputies, wait for the tables, and when they're on our hands, when the MPs can get to know each other, then, with your permission, we'll invite you to the rostrum and we'll listen again, and we'll look at these bills. And while the tables are not in hand, these two bills are put off until they're handed out to the MPs' room. Our next chapter is those bills that have already been discussed, but for which we have not made decisions for various reasons. Sometimes it was because of disputes and misunderstandings, but more often it was just because there weren't enough deputies in the room. And now the four bills that we've already considered, but we haven't decided on them yet. But by habit, I'm going to give a brief report to the committee heads or authors to remind them of the substance of the bill. So let's go to Bill 1402. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation (for free transfer to power and the use of confiscated means of transport). Number 1402 and I'd like to invite the head of the committee. She's on her way out. Then, please, deputy head of the committee, please report. Just give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, let me remind you of the position of the committee on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on 7 October this year (for free transfer to power and use of confiscated and non-economic means of transport) (registration number 1402), which we are currently considering. The committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Given the relevance of this issue, the position of the authors of the factions and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we propose that this bill be adopted as a law of Ukraine as a whole. To that end, please consider, for a stenographer, such an editorial. In the second paragraph of section 1 of the bill, delete the words and figures that were accounted for as of 1 January 2015. So we're subtracting the time limit for decisions to be made on the recognition of transport assets as non-equity or otherwise transferred to the State. In addition, we ask that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, conduct a technical and legal review of the law that we have adopted. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u121	Thank you. So we were reminded of what the bill was all about. I'm the only one who sees the committee's decision as a basis. If there's an agreement, we can talk about acceptance in general, but if there's no objection, just in that case. No, it's not the second reading, don't beat me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u122	First reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u123	Be a responsible MP and politician, please. Dear colleagues, can we vote? Then please, we've already discussed these bills, they're not meant to be discussed, dear colleagues. And so I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Did you get your card? Mr. Kobtsev, the card's with you, isn't it? Thus, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for free transfer to power and use of confiscated means of transport), No. 1402, is on the basis of the vote. Whoever supports this proposal from the committee, please vote, 1402 on the basis. Please vote. [[13:45:22]] For 213 Dear colleagues, let's identify ourselves. Are we going back? Do we have votes in favour of this law? No, no, there are deputies in the hall. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. A number of deputies simply walk around the hall and are not at their workplaces. I'm asking you very much, please give me one more minute, turn on the microphone for Irina Lucenko, and while she's speaking, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I remind you what this bill means. A Ukrainian customs office has accumulated more than 3,000 innocent cars, where there is no owner, who are already committed to fines. Hold them back. These are cars from 5, 10 and above. In five years, all that could be sold, the customs office where these helpless means of transport are both buses and trailers, and light cars and trucks -- everything that could be sold by the age of five, sold, everything else builds up. There's a lot of momentum in the accumulation of these machines. They are recognized by the Law as having no host, that they are imported into Ukraine with a violation of customs and other legislation. In order to sell them, their cost is lower than their taxes, excise congregations, and the necessary bills that need to be copied, so these cars are not sold. There's a great need on the front for today, and you can see the situation in these vehicles. No corruption, no reselling. The law provides that these means of transport are to be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u125	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u126	These vehicles are to be transferred to our Armed Forces. To that end, these Armed Forces must be freed from these taxes, excise duties, and congregations. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill. We looked at it three weeks ago, then we supported the Packaan, and very many other deputies who created the commission and drove these customs and watched how many of those vehicles were accumulated there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u127	Thank you. So, at the suggestion of the author of the Irina Lucenko bill, I ask the people's deputies to take their seats in order to vote in favour of returning to the consideration of Bill 1402. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask you to enter the hall of those who are in the towers and take up jobs. Please, Mr. Taras, Mr. Taras Kutov, please take your jobs. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 1402. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[13:48:49]] For 219 I ask the MPs again. Irina Lucenko explained the importance of this bill. Dear colleagues, please don't go out. We lack a few votes to support the MP initiative. I'm asking the MPs to call their colleagues into the hall. The faction secretariat please invite MPs. I repeat my motion to return to draft Law 1402. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, we're voting 1402. Colleagues, we take up jobs and we vote. [[13:49:54]] For 216 There are no votes to make a decision on the bill. It's not up to him. We didn't make it, did we? Let me put it again, colleagues, but please take your seats. We need people, please contact your faction. Let each man turn to his own faction, ask the people to the hall, all the authors of the bill. So I'm going to put it back again. If he gets the required number of votes, we'll consider it. I won't bet any more on the return. Please prepare, please take up your jobs. And I'm betting once again on the return. So they just explained: both the committee's head and the bill's author, we just had to be in the hall and listen. So once again, I'm betting on a return to the draft Law of 1402. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote back to 1402. Please vote. [[13:51:34]] For 216 No votes. Dear colleagues, we've already been given a table of 2279. Did everyone get the tables, the colleagues in the hall? 2279. They all got the tables. Okay. Mr. Taras, I invite you to the report only after a bill has been passed on to the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and the Land Relations of Kutov Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I propose a new bill prepared by the Agrarian Committee, Bill 2279. The very key thesis in this law is that it is proposed to exclude from part two of article 134 of the Ukraine’s Land Code a position that allows land and property to be transferred without land trades, auctions. In particular, the granting of land and property to individuals, farmers on lease; the granting of land to state and municipal enterprises, to budgetary institutions, higher educational institutions, as well as to households, whose statutory capital exceeds 60 per cent; the granting of land to enterprises and institutions and public organizations in the fields of culture, art, including national creative associations, and creative workshops. It is proposed that paragraph 25 be deleted, allowing additional cases of land transfer to leases without land auctions on the basis of other laws and the Ukrainian Land Code. The Committee in preparation for the reduced procedure received 29 proposals and amendments from the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 11 were taken into account and 18 were rejected. With regard to the rejected amendments, most of them are designed to undo the changes made in the first reading. With respect to each rejected amendment, the table provides a justification for the intended deviation. The committee also decided to supplement the Transitional Regulations with the rule that "receiving land without auction by natural and legal persons if they were granted permission to develop appropriate land documentation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this bill." On the committee, we decided that those who had received the first order to produce technical documentation to add when this law was voted (hopefully today) could continue their procedure and complete the acquisition of this area. All those who do not have such orders go to a general competitive auction. As amended, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u129	Let's take a walk on the amendments. Dear amendment authors, colleagues, please prepare to consider the bill, this bill in a second reading. It's from the rejects. 2 Amendment, National MP Kornatsky. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 4th National Deputy Mishchenko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. 6th, the People's Deputy of Him. Don't insist. 7th National Deputy Lensky. Don't insist. 8th National MP Macola. Don't insist. 9th National Deputy Ednak. Don't insist. 10th National Deputy Yvchenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. Yvchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u130	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, when we were preparing the law for second reading, I was able to communicate with the management of the Association of Small Farmers and Private Landowners. We agreed with them on the issue that I filed today. And I would very much like you to support me. That's what this is about. It is said that we should leave the land under haystacks, gardening, pastures, not through auctions, but still give away to people to create their own family farms. As well as personal agriculture up to 1 hectare and farming, you know that the next law will go by farming with the status of "family farms." So that's exactly what this is for. in the future, the provision of land for the creation of family farms. We've talked to you about these issues, and we're going to make these adjustments, so I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u131	Please, Mr. Taras, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u132	I'll comment from the committee, if you don't mind. Well, we've considered this amendment, it's been rejected by the committee. The basic logic of the rejection of this amendment is, in fact, the general essence of the law that says that without auctions you can't issue land. If it's 50 hectares, it's going to be 50 to 50, it's going to be 200, 100. So little bits can be re-acquired. And given that we've voted today on a bill that can actually allocate this farm land to people without special education, people like that, in fact, there can be a lot of people in the village and there, frankly, 20 people per 50 hectares, that's you and a thousand hectares, and that's actually maybe everything that the local community might have been at its disposal. So I obviously understand that we're putting her on the stand. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we have heard the position of the committee, the position of the author of the amendment. And the author insists on voting? Yes. And there's an amendment to the 10th National MP, Yvchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[13:57:53]] For-125 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I continue my work of the Supreme Council for 15 minutes, and I have that right under the Rules. And now after the 9th amendment, I ask you to give the word of Eden. Please turn on the microphone. However, the 9th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u134	Dear colleagues. I insist on the 9th amendment, which was rejected by the committee. The point is that auctions are not required to preserve and maintain favourable conditions for the creation of sites that are of important environmental and social importance. It's for me. So the amendment sounds like the following. "The provision of land for the creation of parks, hydroparks, meadows, forest parks, squares and green recreational areas, provided free access to these citizens' facilities is granted and the ban on changing the target destination of the relevant land and for the creation of a natural-resourced fund. So I would like to ask the people's deputies to support this amendment, because this is how we're going to contribute to the expansion of our natural-intelligence fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u135	Please comment, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u136	Well, the amendment was rejected by the committee. Because she has a lot of meaning, which our colleague just said. We really hesitated as to how to proceed with this correction. I think internally that an amendment, frankly, can be supported. The only warning that was on the committee was that, in fact, you know, we have a rule about government property, where 60 and more in the state, that's where we're actually leaving the procedure. But if it's, well, private structures that will be taken away accordingly without a competition, here we have concern. Of course, there is a norm in which it is said that citizens will have unhindered access. But to control it actually then it's going to be pretty hard. And we don't see the mechanism, how to flip back that competition in case that unhindered access isn't given. How to cancel this competition, or otherwise act. Therefore, in view of these contradictions, some fears, the committee decided to reject the amendment. But I think in general it can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u137	So we heard the idea of both the amendment author and the committee. The chairman of the committee does not object to the amendment. I think we can support her. Yes, Mr. Taras? And so I ask the MPs to take up their seats, please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, the amendment of our colleague, Deputy Ednak. And I'm putting to the vote Amendment 9, National Deputy Ednak. The committee doesn't object. Please vote. Amendment 9 who supports, please vote. [[14:01:06]] For-163 Sadly, you do not make the decision. Let's move on. 11th Amendment, National Deputy Ivchenko. Is it insisting? Mr. Yvchenko, 11th. You insist, don't you? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u138	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have indeed done so faithfully by removing from the free transfer of land to wholesale markets at auction. It's business. And this requires auctioning and giving to those who really give the best price. But you and I have forgotten that there are wholesale markets for agricultural products, and there are cooperative wholesale markets. And in a village like the Sign or the City of Districtmark, there is such a market, and in other cities of district importance. If you and I are working together, will there be cooperatives tomorrow, where will they sell their products? That's why I'm proposing this point to say, not "optic markets," but "cooperable wholesale markets of agricultural products." And leave that rule in article 134. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u139	Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u140	The committee decided to reject the amendment. The logic was, frankly, we're like in the previous revisions to define "cooperative wholesale market" or simply "optic market." Well, it says "cooperational market." We don't see a mechanism that can be separated from each other. We think that if there are local markets that use the right demand among the people who trade there, that's the decision of local councils, they conduct auctions. I think it's definitely not the kind of place where there's going to be such a huge competitive battle, and local communities and cooperatives can make that decision and stand up for it. This is about, frankly, we're going to stand for, let's say, a 3-4-cent market where locals are selling, and in parallel wholesale markets, there are going to be 30, 40 hectares to go without a competition. The committee therefore decided to reject the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, we have heard the thought of both the author and the committee. And Mr. Yvchenko insists on voting. I'm putting to the vote amendment number 11 of the national MP Yvchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[14:03:47]] For 132 The decision is not taken. 13 amendments. National MP Sobolev does not insist. He insists. Please turn on the Soboljeva microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. So what's the problem in the session room right now? Unfortunately, the table is composed so that MPs do not see that they even exclude them. There are some points ephemeral, six, seven, twenty. I want you to understand what you've ruled out in the first draft of the law. That the land that appears to the higher educational institutions, the budgetary institutions, and the municipal institutions are without auctions. This rule has been ruled out. And second of all, the rule that land in the sphere of culture and art, including national creative associations and their members under the arts, will also appear exclusively at auctions. My suggestion is to leave these standards, as they are, in an active form. Because in fact, we state institutions, municipal institutions, higher education institutions, we put in conditions when they are forced to buy this land at auctions, just like creative organizations, to buy it. This is not fair or unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u143	Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u144	Indeed, the amendment was rejected. There are some standards that are intertwined with the amendment made by Vadim Yushchenk, which we have already put in place for confirmation. As far as scientific, other institutions are concerned, the position on the committee was that, frankly, all of these scientific institutions, all of which have long been formed and land-related areas, have long been organized. These institutions, these institutions, they have long-standing or permanent land use or are properly managed. This is about new auctions and new land areas that will eventually be involved with the same scientific or other institutions. This in no way affects the existing conditions in which scientific and other institutions exist. And I also want to say that if you look, you know, you can register creative communication and build very large houses under it, and do it all without auction. We have a warning, the spirit of this law in general was that if there is an auction, if there are our assets, the land in the state should.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u145	We heard the opinion of both the author of the amendment and the committee. We're putting it to a vote, aren't we? Mr. Sergei, we're voting, right? So Amendment 13, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u146	Can I add?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u147	Ten more seconds, please, not finished Mr. Taras, speaking to Kutovo. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u148	Please, 10 seconds, about the amendment that we're voting for. It's not really about creative communities, it's about 50 hectares of OSH again. I just want to say in some ways that no cheating contests. 13-a, I'm looking at 13-a, I'm heading this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u149	So the committee turned her down, and that's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u150	I want to say that 158 thousand hectares were distributed in this scheme without auctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u151	All right, we're done here. Anyone who supports amendment No. 13 of the People's Deputy Sergio Soboljeva, please vote. Please vote. 12th, 12th, I'm sorry. [[14:07:26]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Now, Mr. Sergey, 13th Amendment, Sobolev. Don't insist. 14th Amendment, Sergey Sobolev. 14th, no insistence. 18th, sold to Oxana. Don't insist. Wise. 19th, Sold, doesn't insist. Beautiful. 21st, Sold, doesn't insist. 24th, Sold, doesn't insist. 25th, Oksana Prodan, don't insist. 26th, Oksana Prodan, is not responding. Don't insist. 28th, Sold, doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, we have discussed all the amendments that have been made. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, to take up your jobs. I'm going to put the vote in first, but as long as the MPs come in, I'm going to ask for another minute, a minute to speak up to Taras Kutov, head of the committee, to make my proposals under the transcript. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like you to invite the deputies into the hall and turn on Mr. Taras Kutov's microphone for one minute. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u152	Colleagues, I'd like to see you. And once again, perhaps try to confirm the amendment of the national MP Soboljev. I think, well, given the content, it's actually not going to be a big warning of corruption. I think if we can create some extra possibilities for creative communities, let's create them. I think let's try again to confirm the 12th amendment. If it worked out, it'd be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, please don't leave the hall. Two minutes of voting. I don't know what things you can do more than vote in the room. So, at the suggestion of the committee head, I'm once again asking for confirmation of the 12th amendment of the National MP Sergio Sobolev. The committee and the committee head are asking for support for the amendment. So the 12th amendment, Sergei Sobolev. The committee's asking for support. Vote, please. Vote, 12th Amendment. [[14:10:07]] For 204 Did everyone vote? No, it's not. Please enter the hall, take your seats. Society, two votes. Two votes! Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I'm going to vote again. I have to do this, although it's embarrassing, Sergio Sobolev's 12th amendment. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Be careful, the 12th amendment, the committee's asking for support. Vote, 12th Amendment, Sergey Sobolev. Please. [[14:10:55]] For 211 No voices. Dear colleagues, after this discussion, I'm going to put the bill in a second reading for a vote. So it's a signal vote. Take up jobs. Colleagues, signal voting for the Law in second reading. We started our work day so well, let's take a break, too, with dignity and responsibility. Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, please take the job. Ivanchuk! Please take the job. No, I'm going on for 15 minutes. Colleagues, therefore, have a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Trade Code (2279). Signal vote, please vote. Colleagues, we vote, we mobilize and we vote. Please. [[14:12:00]] For 213 I have a proposal for us to vote on the bill after a recess. No objections, colleagues? After the break, we will vote on the bill that has already been discussed. Thank you all for your hard work. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4: 00 p.m. we'll continue our work in the session room. I'm asking everyone without delay to meet me in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
