ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall to begin our work. I ask the factions to invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Distinguished People's Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall so that we can start our work. Please, Secretariat, invite the people's deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register at the Supreme Council of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[10:17:47]] 272 national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. I declare the morning session open. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to concentrate before we go over the planned issues according to the Rules, I'd like to point out. Today, dear friends, January 16th. A day that is a black day in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the development of the Ukrainian state. A year ago in this House, laws were passed that destroyed our statehood, democracy, and freedom, which led to the loss of peaceful citizens, and that in choosing their freedom, many people lost their lives, their health. And today, I would like to ask your attention and our common understanding of this Parliament's enormous responsibility for reform, for affirming democracy, for Ukraine to finally become a successful state. And it will be successful only if every citizen feels free to be protected, and Ukraine will be a truly democratic, European state. We have in the name of those who have died in the name of our heroes who today defend our independence to do all they can to ensure that Ukraine takes place. And I am convinced that the efforts of the President, Parliament and Government in the 15th year will be the year of rebirth of Ukraine, restoration, restoration of parliamentaryism and successful and quality reforms. Especially should we remember that day. And I am convinced that this puts on us the enormous responsibility that we will justify with you. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that we have just met with the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, who has discussed a number of current issues, as well as the President's initiative to introduce a draft law on the removal of parliamentary immunity and judicial integrity to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you that the leaders of all political parties and factions have made a unanimous decision to support this initiative and this law, and today I have authorized the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus to prepare for today's vote and to be sent to the Constitutional Court. And, accordingly, we have initiated a procedure for the removal of unlimited, unwarranted, disgraceful integrity of the deputies, as well as of the judges of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And I am convinced that it is today that the Ukrainian Parliament must demonstrate its will and support the President's initiative that has been announced today. We're preparing after "questions to the government" for the introduction of this bill, and there are now procedures for its introduction. I hope that all factions will be able, without any restrictions, to convince everyone that this was not just a declaration, and this will be real steps towards destroying this inviolability. Now, dear friends, I'd like your attention. We have written references to the government and we have two speakers from the government. Before that, I would like to invite you to the opening statement of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u3	Dear coalition partners! The People's Front faction, Peter Poshenko's Block, self-help reverend, Oleg Lachka Radical Party faction and Fatherland! The government is now fully present at a meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament. You have asked a number of questions about both the security and the economic situation, and they are directly related, so today Ukraine’s Defence Minister and Finance Minister will be speaking on matters that have been asked in writing. As for other questions, all members of the government are willing to give public answers to any questions that members of the parliamentary coalition have, including other Ukrainian national MPs. Therefore, I ask that we work quickly for an hour in order for the country to have all the answers to the questions that concern the parliamentarians and people of Ukraine. Please, Minister of Defense of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u4	I invite you to the rostrum of Ukrainian Defence Minister Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich. 30 minutes later I'm going to give 30 minutes to all the deputies, log in, and we're going to ask questions in the order of the record. Do you have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u5	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank you all for the attention that the Supreme Council is giving to the Armed Forces of Ukraine today for the budget that has been adopted by you, a budget that will make it possible to greatly improve the state of affairs of the Armed Forces, to improve the military readiness of the armed forces and to allow the aggressor who is on our land today. I would like to say that the Ministry of Defence is working very fruitfully today with most of the deputies present in the Hall on various issues related to strengthening the security of our state. I would like to say that today individual deputies are working in such a dense regime in general, and as an example, I would like to bring today's national deputy, Bogholic Olga, who is practically with us, with the initiative of preparing a medical doctrine, including the abolition of military medical care. And they've already started preparing senior officers -- about 4,000 people for the things they're going to need in the field of combat. As to the questions I received from you today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am fully open and available at any time of the day, and I can ask any question and find time to answer. But I would like to come to you with a big request for the questions you are asking. Some questions, to be honest, I don't know any European country where the Minister of Defense would answer questions on direct air related to the state secret -- numbers. I can't answer such questions, so we can work on what. [[Congrats]] This is how we can work on the fact that I'm going to report directly on the war decision. I'll say that those people who look at us in Moscow will be happy to watch us. So I would ask, if there are any questions that are more specific, I will always find time to answer these questions. So it's about the questions that came to the Ministry of Defense. So the first question about the Treasury of the Ministry of Defense is that it's a constant justification for all costs. This is exactly where I can't talk today about the number of tanks, the rockets, the PPOs and all that. But the basic numbers and the indicators I'd like to give you. So according to the Ministry of Defence's 2015 fund, 44.6 billion dollars are available, of which 4.4 billion are government guarantees. I'd like to point out that the increase in 14-year-old expenditure is 17.3 billion dollars, or 1.6 times. As far as directions are concerned, the first direction of spending is the cost of developing weapons and acquiring new military equipment. Here the figure is 14 billion 24 million dollars. To modernize weapons and military technology, it's 5.2 billion dollars. I'd like to pay attention to modernizing the new technology. More loyally, technology upgrades, most of the orders are related to our businesses and our factories. So in the second direction, this is the direction of military preparation, the projected amount of about 2 billion dollars. In principle, it allows for training, training, the preparation of contractors in primary schools and the preparation of future officers. In the third direction, this is the direction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the cost is 28 billion. They're practically there. The increase goes 1.3 times. And this is related to the fact that we have a significant increase in the number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, you know, and we are planning to increase it to 250,000 people. These are the main thrusts of the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The work of spending this money has been fruitful, already planned, all the changes made to avoid making mistakes last year. I would like to say that in 23 years of our state's existence, there was virtually no year when today the Ministry of Defense is ready to accept a state defense order to provide the Armed Forces with modern technology. The second question is, "Please explain the situation with regard to the state of the field hospitals, in particular why transportation of Ukrainian fighters in the hospital sometimes takes a long time." I'd like to say that today in the ATO area, there's a sufficient number of field hospitals that are being deployed on a stationary basis. And we have an adequate reserve of stationary hospitals that are ready for deployment as soon as possible. I'm not going to report the location and possibilities for some reason. But what I'd like to say is that there aren't a lot of military personnel in the field hospitals today. Military personnel who are injured in the ATO zone may be involved in cases where a little more than an hour or two of them are transported to other medical facilities. This has to do with the fighting that takes place in the area of antiterrorist operations and with the impossibility of evacuation. Because you realize that during the evacuation of one injured person, there is much greater trouble. However, the number of hospitals is sufficient to provide medical care for military personnel performing tasks in the ATO area. The next question is, "What official of the Ministry of Defense is responsible for medical care?" At the point of permanent deployment in daily security activities, hospital health care is the responsibility of the head of the medical department, Colonel Verba Andri Vjacheslavovich. As for work in the ATO area, there is an appropriate manager. Hospitals are subordinated to the ATO leadership, and there is the head of the department, Anger Alexander Anatoliyovich, who is responsible for the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u6	Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to make a huge request to you. From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine is now speaking under the Rules during "the hour of the Government". I would ask the national deputies to listen carefully to the report of the Ukrainian Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u7	The next question, honourable national deputies, is how many field hospitals are now operating in the ATO zone? At present, there are sufficient hospitals in the ATO area to provide medical support to ATO participants. Fifth question: "Please explain how food is provided to military personnel in the area of anti-terrorist operations." The feeding of members of the Armed Forces is organized within budget allocations for the Ministry of Defence. As of 2015, the budget provided for the provision of food for military personnel is sufficient to provide food for the individual at both permanent locations and in the anti-terrorist area. Food for military personnel participating in the ATO is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Security No. 1 and in addition with Supplement No.3 "Additional nutrition". The order of the food organization. At the point of constant food distribution, the operator in the locations in the ATO area, the basic military units, taking into account the attached food units, orders the required number of products (usually 7-10 days depending on the conditions of performance), and the host entity purchases and supplies to the battalions, units located in the ATO zone. Depending on the conditions of the military food supply on the roadblocks, it is done by delivering ready-made food to the roadblock or by preparing non-existent cooking on these roadblocks, where this is not possible. To this end, each blockpost is equipped with small - scale kitchens of 10, 20, 30, 75 people, water tanks, and other means of preserving and preparing food. The autonomy of a small number of units performing various tasks is ensured by dry rations. The next question is, "What official is responsible for security at the Ministry of Defense?".. In the Ministry of Security, the Director of the Department of State Procurement and Supply of Material Resources is responsible for the responsibility, more loyally, of Colonel Injevsky Alexander Petrovich. At the General Staff, General Pavlovsky is the head of the rear of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to reform this department because it depends very much on it. This position will be assigned to a volunteer by Stella Grigorovna, who, by my order today, has already been appointed Head of the Competition Committee of the Ministry of Defense. The man who passed the Polygraph clearly knows the order of work, honest, self-loyal. And the first month of her work shows that she's capable of doing this. The next question is, "What companies provide food services to the Ministry of Defense?".. The feeding of military personnel is done according to the system, with the involvement of the system, with the involvement of four operators: Admet Group, Avika, Ukradakord-OR, Artek-Soyuz. With a view to providing timely, complete and uninterrupted food supplies for the armed forces, a wider range of potential service providers has been involved today. Is open trade open, opening up?? proposals are scheduled to be made by February 10-12, 15th, involving representatives of the public, media and control bodies. The necessary information on this subject can be found on the Ministry of Defence’s website. The next question is, "Is it justified to provide food for military personnel in the ATO area by these companies?".. It was a forced measure, because we cannot. The eating of a special ingredient should be an indispensable measure, but we are already doing some work -- a prepared concept of special storage and nutrition and provision -- and we have started to implement this concept. The main factors are changes in diet and calorie levels, changes in the components of calories, the way in which they are applied, provided and assembled by individual and group sets of dry rations. Bringing the approved cost of a food set according to average statistics, because we're still using the 2008 figures, that's not right. Changing the quality control system and providing food services at the right time. The introduction of new technologies for preparing and providing food in a special capacity. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, who had been questioned by the Ministry of Defence, received an answer. Thank you for your attention. Do I have a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u8	Thank you. We agreed to make a statement first, and then we'll give time to question-answer. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mrs. Natalko Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! My speech in the Supreme Council came at a time when everyone was concerned, not about the state finances, but about the lives of those of our fellow countrymen who defended our land, the peaceful people who became hostages of the militants in the East of Ukraine and the days of mourning for the victims of the barbaric terrorist act in Volnovas. Yes, our hearts are with them today. Donetska Airport, the next wave of mobilization, is the main social and social themes for today. But in order to win, military mobilization is not enough, we must clothe and feed our fighters, arm them. A crisis in the Ukrainian economy, which requires immediate and costly reforms, is subject to an additional burden of military spending. I don't think there's anything new about the fact that the terrorist war in the East of Ukraine is part of an economic war that has been waged against Ukraine to prevent necessary reforms or to cross Ukraine's path to Europe. So financial mobilization is required to win this war along with the military. On the one hand, we are obliged to preserve basic social guarantees for Ukrainians, finance a significant increase in military spending, and at the same time undertake a new complete reconstruction of the country's financial system to finally launch economic growth mechanisms to restore local self-government and restore modern standards of living to the most remote parts of Ukraine. To survive these tasks, Ukraine needs financial support from its friends and partners. It's not about gifts, it's about loans. Despite the information campaign on Ukraine’s alleged inability to pay, I still say that today the country is fully implementing all its external financial obligations. However, not only our creditors but also the majority of Ukrainians rightly express concern about the delay in reform, the lack of fighting corruption, and the widespread practice of tax evasion. Some of these questions we have tried to answer in a recently adopted package of budget bills. Despite high expectations, however, it is always important to keep in mind that it is impossible to satisfy everyone with limited resources and a short period of time. I'm sure within the next hour I'll hear a lot of sharper questions from you, and there'll be a lot of these shortcomings that I and my team will try to give you a qualified answer to. We've already given you the answers to those questions you asked from the beginning. So what I'm going to do right now is I'm going to focus on just two blocks of the budget that are causing the toughest discussions. First of all, it's funding local budgets. The topic is particularly relevant now that the local government approves the 15th year budgets. For some reason, everyone found that some of the local budgets were taken away, but few noticed that local budgets had been received instead. I must be disappointed. No, budgetary decentralization is not the allocation of additional subsidies from the state budget, with the full preservation of local officials' financial schemes. This is a new system of inter-budget relations, greater financial autonomy and, accordingly, greater responsibility. This is not only a principle of new sources of income for local budgets, but tools that will allow effective communities to influence economic growth and raise their income base accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u10	Effective. Local budget sources are expanded by a transfer from the state budget of 100 per cent of administrative fees, 100 per cent of government duties, 10 per cent of corporate income tax and, in addition, a collection for the sale of excise goods, i.e. beer, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and 5 per cent of the value of the product. In the interests of local communities, the real estate tax base has been considerably expanded by the inclusion of commercial nonresidential property and motor vehicles into taxation, and the accounting standards have been increased. Thus, to local environmental tax budgets, from 35 percent to 80 percent, 25 percent pay for the nagra. And only the recalculated taxes add an additional 25 billion dollars to the local general fund. And in general, given the balance of inter-budget transfers, we are forecasting up to 45 billion dollars of additional resources for local budgets this year. Thus, local budgets, through the introduction of a new financial security model, have received additional resources to carry out powers that are State functions and transferred to the local authorities. Local authorities have also received considerable resources to finance self - control. From now on, local authorities can budget their own local budgets independently and independently. The Ministry of Finance will not provide indicative income indicators, since income sources and remittances are clearly approved in the updated Budget Code. The amounts of the basic and reverse subsidies can be determined by local authorities on their own, since they are based on official treasury reporting. The government understands that only the first steps are taken on the path to fiscal decentralization. In the process of approving the local budgets that are currently in place, and I want to confirm to you here that only less than 9 percent of the local budgets have been approved today. The government is conducting rapid monitoring of the problems of local authorities regarding the socio-economic development of the regions in order to prepare and approve the necessary changes to the legislative acts by the people's deputies in a timely manner. The second big block. Today, there are discussions about the changes made to the Tax Code. In particular, many comments have been made in connection with changes in the single social contribution (ESA). Yes, the rate of 41% of the EU is one of the highest in Europe. In fact, it forces the labor market to hide in a shadow where it is estimated to pay about 200 billion dollars a year. We had a vicious circle, you know, that the pension deficit was covered by an increase in the EU's economy, which forced businesses to lower their official salary levels more and more, which in turn led to a further increase in the pension deficit. Experience has shown that the most punitive measures to address this issue are ineffective. Therefore, the government's draft budget for this year was based on the philosophy of encouraging employers to remove wages from the shadows by proposing a mechanism to reduce the EU's rates from 41 per cent to 16.5 per cent, while several conditions were met. Many representatives of the small and medium - size business have responded favorably to such innovations because they realize that it is much easier to work today without risks. Many complain about the complexity of this mechanism. Let's take a look at the practice, if we're really going to be doing a good job this year, and we're going to get a lot of money out of the shade, then next year we're all going to be able to have a 24.5 percent reduction in the EU's rate. However, we understand that in the process of reform, certain shortcomings are inevitable, the government is tracking the situation, we are open to constructive dialogue with you. Once again, the Ukraine Budget Act 2015 states that the government should make proposals by February 15 for changes to the law. We're not just passively waiting, we're listening to all the constructive proposals for possible changes to fiscal and tax legislation. I have no doubt that today many of your performances, distinguished national deputies, will be dedicated to such improvements. I would very much like to see more proposals among them for additional sources of budget filling, especially through economics, than the populist questions about simply increasing funding. Let's be realistic, please. We do one thing with you, we serve one nation, and let us not forget it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u11	Thank you, Minister. Dear fellow national deputies, we have. 30 minutes, I'd like to ask you a question from the deputies. Please sign up for the question. Ministers, I would like to be very careful, we're going to consider questions and answers. Please take 30 minutes to ask questions and answers. Please sign up. Please, National MP Ruddick, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Glaucus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u13	People's deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u14	Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, electoral district 164. Dear Prime Minister! Dear Minister of Economy! I have a question about last day, because you know that through Freedom's efforts, we stopped the shameful sale of Ukrainian strategic objects -- more than a thousand businesses that would essentially be filling the Ukrainian budget today. Instead, we see the desire of the government -- a banal mugging. What Janukovic and son Janukovic wanted to do today was to realize: from selling Ukrainian railways, from selling other strategic objects — deblissospas and Ukrašta, and so on. I have a question, and why is it not about fighting offshors and moving funds out of Ukraine, but you're just setting a goal -- banal looting of Ukrainian strategic enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'm going to give you the right word to the Minister of Economics, Iveres, please give me the first part of the answer, and I'll add it after you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u17	Is this a microphone? If you'd listened more carefully to all of my last speeches and in the Supreme Press Briefing Council, I've mentioned many times how many enterprises are currently operating: 3,000 374 enterprises of all, of them only 1,900 employees, all the rest of them are either closed or closed. Out of 1,000, 900,60 per cent are companies with turnover of less than 1 million euros. We're also in the Cabinet of Ministers, as you know (you just don't want to admit it), we said there would be no privatization now. And this bigotry that was on the Supreme Council yesterday is, of course, related to just one industry that is very corrupt. And in the coming days, I suggest that the Minister of Agrarian Policy and I show you all the figures for these companies that you're so rudely protecting. There's a very large corruption component there, and we're going to make these numbers public.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u18	Please, Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for a very comprehensive answer, and I would like to add that there will be more than just company names. First of all, this is Ukrispirt, which was under the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, Dergis, the fish, and every other "absolutely uncompromised" thing that now involves criminal investigations, will be called names and, convinced that the authorities of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office will not just name names, but will put those leaders in prison who were protected yesterday without allowing the government to make the right reformist decision on what should be destroyed in the public sector of the economy. We have left exclusively that list of strategic objects that work for the country and depend on the country’s fate. Everything else has to be sold in a public transparent competition and forced to work for the country, pay taxes, pay wages, and not work in the pocket of an official, or some so-called "state manager," who was given the opportunity to steal from public objects. Unfortunately, yesterday Parliament did not support this idea, but once again I am addressing Parliament with the fact that we are all going to come — these objects need to be sold in a transparent competition. And with regard to the appointment of the leaders of the largest strategic objects that are most important for the security of the economy of the state, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided on Wednesday to conduct a public competitive selection to appoint the leaders of the largest state-owned companies -- 62 state-owned companies. And finally. A big request to those members of parliament who ask questions but don't read the laws, to read what was provided for in the law. The question of the privatization of "The Crucibles" was not in the bill at all. All strategic objects of the State must remain state property. All of it. What should work for the economy should give people the opportunity to buy publicly at the competition, to attract normal investments, to create jobs -- and to cover up this nursing facility, which was distributed by individual ministers, who were covered up by political forces and political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u20	Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u21	I have a question about the energy situation, which is that coal is the most risky, dangerous and corrupt sphere. You remember that the Attorney General’s Office first announced that we had purchased some coal in Africa at an overpriced price. After that, the Ministry of Energy purchased the same coal from the same trader, stating in a contract that there were no pre-purchase claims. I want to understand how the whole country, who and why we bought this coal, and how much these prices and the quality of coal were and are appropriate. Part two of the problem. People who work in energy testify that both contracts are actually a cover-up for contracts with Russia, and some people say they're not with Russia, they're with Sasha Yanukovic. I told the Minister of Energy a very simple advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u22	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u23	To publish all the contracts: both African coal and Russian -- so that the whole country can see who and how they do it for taxpayers' money. Transparency will kill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like to follow the rules on questions. Please answer. ? DECHIN V. V. Dear Mr. Sobolev, we had an hourly meeting with you on Monday on this issue, and in fact in a public environment, I answered all your questions. First of all, it's coal, which has now been purchased in addition to the old contract, it was a forced transaction, considering the absence of anthracite coal stamps at our stations. We have four stations almost. They don't even have a supply of anthrax, so. This is the first time. Secondly, this transaction was essentially saved by $4 million overpaid by the previous one. Four months ago, which was made at the full volume of transactions, it was $17 per tonne of coal that was now being imported. Thirdly, the quality of the coal you're talking about, each party is unique, and for today these two supplies that we've received are fully consistent with the technical quality of the coal that burns at Centrenergo stations. Its calories -- I have certificates -- 5,520 kilos per kilogram. So this is, at least, 10 percent higher than those certificates at the first two deliveries. This is about your first question. As to the second question. All of them. I promised you I'd do a legal review of the contracts, and I can tell you that I'm not. I don't have the authority to open these contracts. But I turned to the commercial structures that sign these contracts, and I recommended that they make key commercial terms public, considering that these contracts are confidential, are legally binding documents. They will publish key commercial conditions that interest the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Mr. Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u27	Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u28	Good afternoon. Questions to the Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your excellent performance. We support you in all your beginnings. And we think you're one of the finest ministers in the country. But there's one "but." The credit granted to the Cabinet of Ministers, including your ministry when voting for the country’s budget, must be justified. Now we're going to analyze all the amendments and plugins that you've published. And we're already finding a mass of dissatisfaction between the declared Prime Minister's voice and what's there. We suggest that you (not us, but you) create a working group with us and deal with this issue. The second question. Inadequate budget and inadequate legislation, which is sometimes prepared by your ministry, should be punished. I want to assure you -- we're not going to walk away from this question, we have to -- who's going to be punished in your ministry for this? And the third question to the minister of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u29	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u30	Thank you. When it comes to publishing budgets or other laws, that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u31	Excuse me, Minister, 10 seconds. Let me finish Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u32	Minister, hemodialysis. I know it's not your fault, but people are supposed to get quality service. Please check this out and report it to the health care facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u33	Thank you. The first question is to publish all the texts of the laws. Everything that was the responsibility of our ministry was done. All other questions, please, before the Parliament. The second question. I don't know what you're talking about. Someone needs to be punished. If you have specific points of view, please give them to me. But today, on your question, no one has been punished in our ministry in terms of what has not been done. And thirdly, with regard to hemodialysis, I'm going to review this issue with the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kurilo Vitali Semenovich. Oh, MOH, please. Deputy Minister of Health
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u35	Deputy Minister Alona Tereshchenko. Regarding treatment and the purchase of waste materials for patients with chronic hemodialysis. We absolutely support the fact that the purchases have to be complete, it's really a set of expensive materials. Yesterday, right after the Supreme Council meeting, after receiving a transcript of your speech, a selector's meeting with the regions on the inclusion of haemodialysis patients at the level of 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u36	Thank you for your answer. Please, National Deputy Kurilo Vitali Seminovich, "Block of Petra Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u37	I have two questions for the distinguished Minister of Finance of Natalia Jaresko. Dear Mrs. Natala, question one. In line with the Budget Act, vocational and technical institutions that were part of universities are now transferred to finance from local budgets. But it hasn't been developed and it's not today, it's designed how to finance it, because these schools aren't legal persons. I ask you to pay attention to the Ministry of Finance and explain to the local authorities about this funding, because people have to collect salaries, they have to pay scholarships, and there is no way to do that. And the second question. I'd like to hear the answers, not just me, when they're transferring to teachers and doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u38	Please answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u39	Thank you. As for the first question, we are actually working with our local authority, but the parameters, the formulas should be defined on their own. So we really need to work with them right now to get everyone to understand how and what to do, but in the end it's going to be the responsibility of the local level. As for the second question, thank you, we'll be working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Andrey Lozovy, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u41	I give the word to the general from Oxani Korchinsky's medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u42	Oksana Korchinska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u43	Good afternoon! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Questions to the Secretary of Defense. Dear Minister, according to the volunteers and us medical coordinators of the ATO, 80 percent of the wounded in the field of combat go to civilian hospitals and the Ministry of Defence, unfortunately they do not even benefit from drugs. I have a question. Why of the 80 billion that we have allocated to the ATO Ministry for military medicine this year, only 800 million are for military medicine, 650 are for the salaries of military doctors. Why is there little money available for medicines, for transportation, for pharmacies, that we even have doubts that we have enough to buy pharmacies? Are we going to put all the medicine on the shoulders of volunteers again? That's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u44	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! It's about delivering the wounded to the civilian hospital. During my speech, I said that when it was possible to deliver them to the hospital, which are our extended mobile phones in the ATO area, we deliver them to our hospital and provide medical care. When it is possible to deliver the injured, there is a need for him to suffer pain and his life. There is a threat to life, of course, that we use all the possibilities that there are, including civilian hospitals. As for the lack of drugs, I have no such information. If you have one, we monitor the wounded who are in the hospital every day in civilian hospitals. The report every day, which means I've got a report coming through, and the work is being monitored to help those military personnel who have gone to civilian hospitals, if they don't have the capacity to go to civilian hospitals, to be assisted by the Ministry of Defense. But for today, I don't have a cure for missing drugs. About the budget. The formation budget, rather than formation, and the amount of money that the Ministry of Defence has allocated to the budget will be sufficient to provide the necessary amount. The fact is that the funds that were planned last year were ineffectively used. Medical supplies were purchased. Not the medical, but the bed was purchased, the equipment was purchased, which is basically updated. As a result, the head of the medical department was released from service. And this year, we're just going to review the approach, what's needed first, what's needed, what's defined and what's going to be the right medication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u46	Please, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u47	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. I have a question for the Secretary of Defense. Yesterday, the secretary of the NPB assured the MPs that all those mobilized during the next wave would be dressed and knotted. I have reason to doubt that there is still no tender for the purchase of uniforms, such as winter clothing for the military. On January 20th, the next wave of mobilization will begin. More than 50,000 mobiles will arrive. A total of 200,000 is planned. How will you provide them with uniforms and shoes? Who are ordering sewing and supplies? And were those who in 2014 put on unkind, one - time shoes and clothes for the fighters punished? That's the first question. And the second question. Canada has sent and plans to send a total of $11 million to Ukraine. It's already 3,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u48	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies, regarding the provision of a special staff to be appointed for the following year. I'd like you to be careful with the numbers, after all. Because I don't know where you get the number of 200,000 people you're going to call. Of course, tenders were not conducted, they could not be carried out, because you only accepted the budget at the end of December and could not hold a tender. But measures by the Ministry of Defense are being taken to provide special clothing. We have a reserve of 30,000 forms to provide. In addition, you rightly said that humanitarian aid is arriving from Canada, Australia, from other countries, continued, long-term contracts last year, and businesses are working, including during weekends, and during holidays to provide. And the last. I was going to say that the special warehouse is not going to just go straight to the army of 50,000. The fourth wave of mobilization is 50,000, not 200, they're going to do it in part. Graphics, plans, everything prepared and created, groups work in all parts of the enterprise, and they create the right conditions to provide a special warehouse. And those who worked in such a way last year that a special warehouse was provided with inadequacies of clothing were all released. Then, where there is a component of the crime, there is a criminal case. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Lewchenko Yuri, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u51	Lechenko, Freedom. I would just like to ask a government full of liberals not to sell state property during the war to close relatives, business partners and various partners. Because half the country will remain beyond poverty even further than it is now. If you're disturbed by some corrupt leaders of some corrupt enterprise, please have 300 people, most of them in the Supreme Council are constitutional, you have a Henprocuror of your own, your IMF is everything, change it! Let's go! I'll be the first to help you. I'll come and throw these bastards out of the office. But now you're trying to sell the "Friendship" oil pipeline for a penny (it wasn't in this law), you're trying to sell all the logging, Ukrainian-Danish steaming to sell, ship repair plants to sell during the war. "Roschen" can't be sold during a war, and that's what you can sell during a war, right? Surrender! Have a conscience! Because you cut pensions, you don't pay people anything, and you want a chicken that carries egg gold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u52	Please. One more answer from the Minister of Economy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u53	I'd like to ask why you're duplicating the same place. You and your colleague expressed your opinion yesterday, it was the same with you and your friend who spoke before, and you said it again. You're taking up time with other deputies to ask. I'm telling you again, we didn't sell anything and we're not going to sell anything for free. Therefore, please, in two weeks' time, most of the enterprises will be obliged to show their accounts publicly - it will hang on the website of the Ministry of Economy or the line ministries, and then we will see what are the real financial matters of these enterprises, including those you are protecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u54	Please, National Deputy Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u55	Thank you. I have a brief line to Mrs. Natalia, if we don't bring officials to account, the people will be held accountable, I'm calling your attention. I have a brief question to Mr. Demchikin and a brief question to Mr. Secretary of Defense. What is the government's position on the construction of gas stations on the border with the Russian Federation? And Stephen Timothy, first of all, thank you for coming to us with normal contact, and we as the Self-Help faction are always ready to help you. I have a quick question, do we have enough authority in those leaders who are engaged in wartime action? That's the first question. And the second question about the reform of the Croatprome is whether you're planning any changes. The third, brief question is about personnel change in the General Intelligence Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u56	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u57	Mr. Kishkar, I want to inform you that you are actually raising a very important question before any commercial relationship between the parties needs to be clearly understood by the volume of any gas or coal or oil that is exchanged between the parties in any transaction. So the counters at all levels at the entrance-out of the gas transport system should be repaired, adjusted, certified and so on when this gas is plugged into. That's definitely a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Council, regarding questions to the Secretary of Defense. Those leaders who are now in charge of an anti-terrorist operation and are in charge of the combat task sectors, who are completely experienced, who have authority, who have experience of doing the job, and while they are doing their job at the right time. It's about Ucrobanprom. With regard to the reform of Ucroborprom, it's not a sphere, so the Ministry of Defence's activities -- we're partners, we're buying through Ucroborprom. So about reforming, I can't give you a report like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u59	Thank you, Minister. Please, Stepan Barna, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u60	Stepan Barna, Peter Dustenka's Block, I'd like to give you my word for a joint question, Alexia Poshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u61	Alexi Poroshenko, 12th constituency, Vinnitské district. I will have a question to the Deputy Minister of Health about the so - called experiment in medical reform, which was launched by the previous authorities and which, in fact, touched one of the areas, was the Winnitz area. This has now led to the fact that many people, especially in rural areas, cannot get medical treatment on time, and very often there are four or five hours waiting for them to get quick help. Please tell me what plans you have to make to remedy this situation, perhaps to reverse this experiment or to continue the medical reform that would be closer to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u62	Thank you for asking, the Ministry of Health is today reporting to the Health Protection Committee on the results of the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Pilot Regions for Health Reform – Donetsk, Dnipropetrovska, Vinnitsk district and the city of Kiev. Today, the position of the Ministry of Health is in line with the profile committee, and the registered draft Law on the continuation of the pilots ’ law, since these innovations that have been introduced in this law, including the new form of financing, and the promotion of the professional activities of health workers, as well as the creation of a single space, as well as the distinction between the level of health care, have shown that the reform has been successful and must be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u63	Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u64	Thank you. I have a letter to Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich of Ukraine. We all realize that our country’s economic crisis has objective reasons. This is, first of all, war. But we all know that there are also subjective reasons -- unstarted reforms and corruption in the authorities. I ask you not to distract the Prime Minister, I ask the Prime Minister a question. Thank you! In a year of poverty in the nation, at least half, and at the same time, ordinary Ukrainians continue to collect copies to support our army. So we're convinced that our society deserves the honesty of the state that it protects and supports. Ukrainians have a right to know what the government is doing to protect them from inflationary shock. And, Mr. Prime Minister, it is not populism, as some begin to speak. We must remember the common people. So the question is: Please explain to people what measures will be taken and whether the government is already using them to restrain them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u65	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u66	basic food, utilities, and transportation. And the second, the short, the question. Why didn't your faction vote, support the bill that we helped you fight the oligarchs and monopolism to fill the budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u67	Thank you very much to the Fatherland faction for having the Fatherland faction in our coalition. I appreciate that you've supported the entire package of social legislation, which is actually, well, difficult to see in society, but what the "Paternity" faction voted in favour of optimizing and reducing social benefits is very much appreciated. And this is the right position for the coalition faction. As for your very important question, of course, it's unfortunate that the faction of Fatherland didn't vote in favour of the State Budget Act, because this is the law that provided for financing, and it provides, first and foremost, for a defence budget that is the highest in all of Ukraine's history, that is 5.2 percent of GDP, 90 billion dollars. It also envisioned a series of major reforms, such as combating corruption in the coal, energy fields. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we've recorded $2 billion in donations that have always been stolen from the coal sector. And a large part of the money was spent on social needs and funding, not only for defences, but also for financing education, for funding hospitals, for funding our public service, so that a country in a state of war and a country that lost 20 percent of the economy would still live and that country would form a basis for further economic growth. If our forecasts are true and if Ukraine continues to pursue economic and political reforms, and the proper support of our Western partners is supported, it will create preconditions for stability and economic growth. You can only spend what you've earned. It's the previous president who took $40 billion in three years, and now we've got to give them to everyone in Ukraine. By the way, as far as these billions are concerned, I would also like to report that the government has been arrested, $1.3 billion, and now, thanks to your contribution and the adoption of the Law on Procedural Conduct yesterday, we are moving forward in the process of arresting additional assets of the former regime. And as for your last question, I would like to state a public and clear position on what needs to be done in the public sector. First. I publicly entrust the Minister of Energy of Ukraine to convene general shareholders meetings of Ukrnafta, including with the agenda for changing the company's management. [[Congrats]] The other one. Unfortunately, the law voted by Parliament is not distributed to the company Skrnafta. That is why I am asking members of Parliament to make appropriate changes to this law. As this bill has been adopted in an intrusive manner and unfortunately, this law has nothing to do with the management of the company Ukranafta.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! Last question, Lyushko Oleg Valeriyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, that's what the Rules are. All right, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u69	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Arsenius Petrovich, your answer to his colleague's question forced me to take the floor again to contact you. We just had a meeting with the President of Ukraine, where you, the Chief of the Supreme Council and the leaders of the factions were present. You are there, including in the presence of the President, on my question, confirming that the law that we voted in the Supreme Council allows you to change the management of the Skrnafts in order to get this stockholder society back into state ownership. Now you're in Parliament saying that the bill voted seems to have nothing to do with Skrnafta. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, publicly with all Ukrainian citizens with the question why your faction didn't vote in favour of this antiallegarchical law, why everything is now being done to make it impossible to change. If this law does not fall within the scope of the Skrnaft, then I ask you to give a public commission to your faction today without delay to vote on the relevant changes so that this law will be distributed on Skrnaft.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. I'll do it again. At a meeting with the President today, you stated that a law that was passed by Parliament two days ago needed immediate change, as there was no settlement of the issue of the company Crocnafts. These are so-called editorial clarifications, and more specifically, changes to the law that need to be adopted. I made a public statement, and once again, I claim that the state will regain control of the company Skrnafta. And it was at my direction that the shareholders’ congregations took place two months ago. And it was on my instructions that 1.7 billion dollars of revenue, which the company Ukrnafta had to send to the State Budget, were distributed. With regard to the vote. I appeal to members of Parliament: When such important laws are voted on, they must be voted on in such a way that the law does not have ambiguous interpretations. And then the government won't go to court again, and for years, it won't be able to raise billions of dollars. Even if you don't vote for the amendments to this bill, it's the same as the government's decision as the previous shareholders' congregations that the government has conducted, we're going to conduct them. But, knowing the Ukrainian judicial system, "absolutely not corrupt, honest and uncompromising," I think we're going to have again two dozen court decisions that we already have today, for not only the company Skrnafta, but other state companies, which is why we're proposing to privatise in public competitions, not allowing further corruption schemes to raise funds from these companies. So in closing, the government called the previous congregations, the government has been given a decision to allocate 1.7 billion dollars of dividends from Skrnafta, and the government insists on adopting the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u72	Stop, stop. Arseny Petrovich, I'm sorry. Colleagues national MPs! One minute, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to ask the National Deputies to stay away from the physical. Hold on. Please hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u73	Vladimir Borisovich, it's now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u74	Finish up, Arseny Petrovich. Please take your seats as national deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm ready to make you a sports hall where you can stretch your hands, please. Okra. [[B in m in s a l in]] But not in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. Please take your seats. Thank you, Your Honor, for your understanding. Thank you to the People's Deputies for understanding. And please let's give the Prime Minister the opportunity to finish his speech. Take your seats, please. Thank you. Please finish, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u75	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear coalition! Thank you for an hour of questions to the government. The government makes a request. When we do the legislative work with you, as we did when we adopted the whole tax reform package, budget legislation and the Ukrainian Budget Act, we are only improving and making these laws stronger. I appreciate the work that was done at the end of last year, when we worked for 20 hours with each deputy, with each faction actually working on the laws. And these 20 hours, it turns out that they were stronger and more practical than they were before that three weeks of discussion. That's why I'm calling on Parliament and, above all, the coalition to work actively together on these bills. With great satisfaction, the government is ready to hear every proposal, every faction, and I am ready for an open public discussion. Thank you for your attention and for your future meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u76	Let's thank the government for the answers. Dear fellow national deputies, we have. I have an application for a recess for two factions -- the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland faction. I see Self-Help. Yes. I'm announcing 15 minutes. 30 minutes. 30-minute break until 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the leaders of the factions of the coalition to the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u78	Honorable People's Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. Before that, I received a statement from two factions, the Opposition Block, and the Economic Development Group, calling for a recess. But we can replace it with a performance. I offer the opportunity to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Vadim Rabinovich. Three minutes, please. And I'd like the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u79	Dear friends, this is the first time I've spoken in this room. I'm a young MP, I've watched all the time, I've wanted to see how we're going to live. I took care of it. You know, we live well. We have the Phoefania behind us. Great buffet, filled with vodka, cognac. We sing Gymn Ukraine three times a day. It's great, but I'm out on the street and I'm seeing another life. I want to tell you one thing. We voted in favour of mobilization yesterday. And you know what it is, it's not easy. I have tabled a bill, 30 per cent in each State institution of Ukraine to set a quota for young people who cannot break behind the backs of all these Kievs sitting here. This is the law we have to vote on. We know that the last Parliament has hated because the eyes of the entire people have voted by four hands here in favour of the laws. The same continues now. Mr. Chairman, now I want you to pay attention to how many people are in the room and how they will vote. I filed today a bill on criminal responsibility for the four-handed vote. We'll see who loves Ukraine. I also want to tell you. I want to tell you this. Today in Parliament we have the main one with a high tone of voice. Unfortunately, in a democratic parliament, the power of vote is determined by the voices that have voted for you. I received more Ukrainian votes in the presidential election than some political parties. My friends and I have received one and a half million votes, six areas of Ukraine. You don't give me the right to speak, one and a half million Ukrainians! So don't shut your mouth. That's the poster you broke, I'm going to give it to you. It is a disgrace to those who voted 29 for an illegal, anti-constitutional budget. You did it even though you said it was illegal. They wrote themselves that it was a letter, like there, the letter of a marshkin. And yet you vote for him. I want to tell you that either you start working properly if we think about the Ukrainian people. Today's bracelet is what it costs, you know? 20. I'll remind you of a speech by Yatsenuk, who said that more than 12 years ago, the economy would collapse. I'm going to remind you of the talk of Dusty, who said 10, 10 and that's it! Now it's 20. 20, I repeat. Here's a representative of the National Bank, and you know what? It'll be fine. Today and 25 will be, and 30 will be fine. I want to tell you, for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine, for Ukraine! - but a strong rich Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u80	Thank you. It was a statement under the Rules, your honorary colleagues, it was an address, everything was fine. Dear colleagues, we will now consider an extremely important matter with you. I would ask the national MPs to take their seats, because this question, I think, is extremely long-awaited, even for decades, it's about removing the intrusiveness from the national deputies of Ukraine and the judges. You know, today the President of Ukraine has taken this initiative to the Supreme Council, and we need to consider this immediately to determine the position of Parliament. And I am convinced that today, Parliament, every national MP, has a duty to vote for this decision, because it is extremely important and will remove, I would say, the injustice that is in society today is full and unconditionally intact, which leads to serious abuses and we know about it with you. Therefore, dear friends, the draft Law (registration number 176) amending the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges is being submitted to your consideration. A bill introduced by the President of Ukraine pursuant to article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Dear National Deputies! I would now like to invite the representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubiwa. Please, Ivan Stepanovich, report 10 minutes, please report. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u81	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! A Respectable World Society! Today, January 16th, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today is January 16th. A year ago, on January 16, 2014, a peaceful protest was staged in Ukraine, ending with the vote of 16 January, which led to the conclusion that the peaceful actions in Ukraine had ended, that the Ukrainian people's protest on the Jews of all Ukraine would also be destroyed in Maidan, here in the capital of Kiev. As a result of the January 16th vote, Januković’s opposition to the Ukrainian people began. The second is that there is more than one call by Ukrainian national deputies to the elections, and they have declared and promised to the Ukrainian people that parliamentary integrity is not the main reason why they go to the Supreme Council. That parliamentary immunity is not something that motivates you to go to the sessional Chamber of Deputies and to avoid legal, criminal, civil and legal responsibility. At the same time, according to articles 93 and 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, introduces to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges. However, this bill has been defined as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Bill number 1776. Justification of the need for acceptance, the introduction of the Supreme Council’s day-to-day review has its basis according to the explanatory note of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I would like to point out that the Constitution guarantees parliamentary immunity under article 80. At the same time, social sentiments have shown that such immunity from the people’s choice has proved unwarranted because it has essentially turned out to be a guarantee of impunity. Taking into account social sentiments, there was an urgent need to abolish parliamentary integrity. In addition, there is a need for a substantial improvement in the judiciary’s integrity and for it to be brought into line with European standards. I would also like to point out that the legal framework in this area of regulation is the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, on the questions raised before me and in society, I would like to say that the implementation of the bill does not require any additional spending from Ukraine's state budget, the adoption of the law does not require an all-U.S. referendum and a corresponding allocation of funds from Ukraine's state budget for its implementation. There was a committee meeting, I was present at it, there was an appropriate decision on all the issues that had arisen, there was a discussion, there was an opinion that would now be made available to both the deputies of the Supreme Council and all the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is. Supposedly, we could ask the reporter a question, but does that make sense? None. Then the committee head's report. The committee head's report, please, Leonid Jemetz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u83	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. The law must be one for all, and the Constitution of Ukraine clearly determines that all Ukrainian citizens are equal regardless of their position. Therefore, that is why we went to the elections, clearly speaking to people about the fact that the intact will be removed from all authorities, from national deputies, and from judges. [[Applause]] It will be regulated by the President's Impeachment Act, and everyone has agreed to it. In fact, this has a strategic goal, a strategic objective of reform. When the national MPs, the judges, the President understand that they are the same equal, that is, unprotected from all the silhouettes that exist in our country today, that's what's going to make these laws, that's what makes all citizens feel so protected. And no one will feel more secure because he is a national deputy, or judge, or another position. That is why this bill is absolutely correct, and we should not wait for a separate constitutional commission or commission. In order for this simple and clear question to begin work today. That's why we welcome the President's introduction of this bill. The committee today considered the bill and, according to the special procedure envisaged for amendments to the Constitution, examined the subject’s submission to the effect that the bill did not violate other chapters of the Constitution, that it did not violate Ukraine’s international obligations, and, in fact, concluded by an absolute majority of the Committee’s votes that the bill was long overdue to be incorporated into the agenda of the Supreme Council. I therefore propose to support this decision by voting on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Leonid Alexanderovich. We've got speeches from now on. I think we're going to limit ourselves to questions to the head of the P.I. committee. We're going to make statements from the factions. And I think that's going to be fine. Please write down: statements from factions and groups. Please. Communicators from factions and groups, please sign up, Your Honor. Fatherland, please, National Deputy Lucenko. Please, National Deputy Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of some of the facts in our sad history of Ukraine. It wasn't Parliament that shot Midan as an institution. The orders for the shooting of Maidan were given from the President’s chair, and on it, on this chair, blood had not yet dried up. That's why we, in our faction, had a party program that we had to vote in a complex way. If we take away the immunity from the MPs -- okay, from the judges -- okay, but the President needs to be touched first. [[Applause]] That's the first one. The other one. I want to remind you that many of our so-called colleagues were the foundations of that bloody throne. And so far, the fact that some sort of inviolability prevents them from being held accountable is full of nonsense and lies. Where did the Attorney General put these criminals? [[Applause]] We now love people with this law simply, rather than being held accountable by real and long-standing criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u86	As far as I can remember. Please, Oleg Lazko. Please. A radical party. Let's get ready, Peter Dusty Block, Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! At last today, more than a year after the Maidan Dignity Revolution, the new Ukrainian Parliament arrived, and his hands reached him on the issue of the removal of parliamentary and judicial integrity. But the bill that we see does not exactly correspond to what the Ukrainian community expected. We can see that the bill, initiated by the President, does not contain a removal of judicial inviolability. It's just that if the Supreme Council had previously given permission to criminalize judges, today, with the changes that we are considering, it is proposed that this permit be granted by the High Council of Justice, which, by the way, does not work for a year -- the Supreme Council of Justice. So who's going to give this permission? I mean, we really see that there is no removal of judicial immunity, even though we insist that this issue be resolved, because it is the irresponsibility of the judges who are covered in their inviolability that we have a barrage of justice. The other one. Withdrawal of the MP's immunity. The faction of the radical party supports the removal of the parliamentary immunity in its entirety and does not need to be covered in any words about the fact that in part or in part. Full-scale! MP's immunity is a feudal survival, it's a testimony to the clan of Ukrainian society, which is a simple job that is put in jail for three copies, and there are untouchable MPs, judges, presidents who are not put in jail, even if they are killing people and committing crimes in Midan. Therefore, parliamentary immunity, judicial integrity, must be eliminated completely. As far as the President's integrity is concerned. Today we propose to vote in favour of amendments to the Constitution to the abolition of parliamentary and judicial integrity, to include this bill in the agenda. The next step we propose to Parliament in the new session is to urgently consider a bill on the President's impeachment, in order to be balanced and counterbalanced, in order to remove the immunity from the MPs and establish a procedure for impeachment of the President, so that if the President commits crimes, it is indifferent to Peter Alexiyevich Prashenka (he does not commit crimes) – but for those who have done so, those who might make them answer, not to Maidan, but to answer in the order provided for in the Constitution. And the last. Today, January 16, the anniversary of the adoption of dictatorial laws. And what do we see? Many of those who voted in favour of dictatorial laws are in the hall, why are they not in prison? Why are they in the hall? That's why I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to make an immediate submission on the criminalization of those who voted in favour of the dictatorship on January 16th, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u88	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u89	Submitting the submission to the responsibility immediately. If the Attorney General of Ukraine does not submit this application, we are initiating the issue of the resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine for doing nothing, for not working, for not submitting. [[B in m in s a l in]] As the leader of the Radical Party, I signed up on behalf of the Attorney General's resignation and the entire Radical Party faction supports this initiative. At the same time, we're asking questions about the responsibility of the heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service, all of which should be responsible for undisclosed crimes in Maidan. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u90	Please, Your Honor. "Clock of Petra Poroshenko", National Deputy Matvienko Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please. Dear colleagues, I would like your attention, we are considering an extremely important issue. Dear colleagues, we are considering a serious matter. Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Matvienko, Block of Petra Prashenko. I think it's very fashionable to be popular today, but it seems to me that we should be responsible, including for the document that we sign with you, the commitments we make, including the Coalition Agreement, and obviously we should think about the authority of the entire coalition, because we have a great responsibility, not the popularity of individual national MPs. With regard to our position on the bill passed by the President of Ukraine. Of course, the Supreme Council is only authoritative when it fulfills its promises and because it has not fulfilled them, we have lost our authority. One of the key promises we made was the abolition of the institute of intactness. And if we're consistent, we have to solve this problem. In Ukraine, there are two super problems for me: the problem of war, which we all are experiencing today, and the problem of corruption. How would I have been asked which of these problems was more significant I would have answered: If there were no corruption, there would be no war today. Of course, corruption is based on authority, including the Supreme Council. We will not show our sincere desire to overcome corruption if we do not undo the intrusiveness. All of you know that individual deputies, including our faction, have taken the initiative to collect 150 signatures and to raise the issue of cancelling the immunity in this room. The president has apparently made the right decision and must be supported in this, not allowing us to take the long route of collecting 150 signatures, but a bill to undo the intrusiveness. I think we're supposed to support the President today, but our faction is the next one that seems to be a blogist to consider this bill. Today we have to put it in the order of the day. Obviously, the right of deputies to study in detail all the President's proposals and, after we have done so, and the committee of inquiry insists on such a procedure, to put the matter to a vote. Since we're not declaring a break, but we're working continuously, obviously we could still do this session before the Supreme Council closes, adopt this law, and then consider it as soon as possible in the next session. I call on all deputies, regardless of opposition or coalition, to support today's decision to include the President's day-to-day initiative and to consider the proposed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, the People's Front, Mikola Romanovich Velichovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u93	Grand Chief, People's Front, may I have a word with Igor Lapin?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u94	Please, People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u95	Deputy Lapin, People's Front. Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! Well first of all, what I think is, and this is a thought supported by my colleagues, that the intrusiveness, first of all, must be removed from all of them completely without exception, starting with the President of Ukraine, from all the deputies and all the judges. [[Applause]] There are a number of points in this bill that will, of course, need to be studied. But I'll tell you that safety nets like the Council of Justice in order not to be able to remove the immunity from the judges are a safety net that needs to be removed. And that's the principle position. That's all I'm saying. Some want to be secure from attracting so - called insults, perhaps slanders, including from this rostrum. Dear colleagues, there is a procedure. And so the idea of being protected by some corrupt lieutenant bought by an oligarch in order to arrest a deputy doesn't have to be afraid of that. There's a certain procedure for attracting an MP. And that's why I don't think there should be any safeguards in this bill. This is once again a principled position. So what I'm saying is that the People's Front faction supports the introduction of this bill, and we're going to vote in favour. And hopefully, once all the procedures are done, there will be a lot of free space in that wing. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u96	Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u97	Colleagues, it is very good that this country has started with real political competition, and Parliament is helping the President to keep his promises to the electorate, and the President is helping us. It's a very good help. There's a clear awareness that we need to take the immunity from the MPs completely. There is a clear awareness that the integrity of judges must be recorded, and they will be the first to want the law to be enforced in Ukraine. And we need to put in place a civilised, serious procedure for the President's responsibility through the impeachment law. The Self-Help faction supports all three decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u98	Thank you. Please, Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! I mentioned the first time I voted out of parliamentary immunity, that was 1999, I'm sorry, 2000 year, on the basis of a popular referendum that demanded the removal of parliamentary immunity, then there were not enough votes, I voted in favour. There were not many national MPs in the hall when they were in opposition, and they did not vote in favour of this by defending their rights, protecting the rights of their citizens. And I looked at Kuchma, Yushchenko, Yanukovic, and I also raised the issue of the removal of the parliamentary immunity itself, and now Peter Poshenko, a row of merry, a row known and logically completed. But I would like to remind you of the appropriate vote that took place in the last vocation, when today's power was an opposition. Then it was your clear request that you vote in favour of removing the inviolability, along with removing the inviolability of Yanukovich President of Ukraine. What has changed in principle? I am glad that, according to the intentions declared today, nothing seems to have changed. But was it correct to guarantee that you would pass the law and forget your loved one? I don't think so. It would be a strong male step by Peter Dustenk if he started with 105 articles, at least the first part, and then, accordingly, 80 and 126, and 129, that would be correct. The MP's intrusiveness needs to be removed, and he's tired of voting for it, let me be honest with you, for five phone calls or six. So let's be honest with ourselves, let's be open to the citizens of our country, and let's do this, and let's go into history with this decision. I really like the individual inspiration of the leaders of the same block, and I realize that when soldiers freeze in trenches, inspiration comes in the Emiriats, it's also clear that the country is not bad. But today we must be as responsible as possible. And let's make it human, and really touch all the power in our country. I think that 105, 80, 126, and 129 articles should be largely cancelled or amended to allow people to believe that these people can be brought to real responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! By procedure, we have determined the speeches of the people's deputies, and I think we can determine 15 minutes with you in accordance with the Rules for the speeches of the national MPs. I'd like to ask you to prepare and sign up for the speech right now, and it's been taken by the Rules for 15 minutes, please. Sign up for the national MPs. Alexander Marchenko, now, one minute. Please, Alexander Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Surely today is a remarkable day when national MPs take the first step and set an example in comparing their, some authority they have with that of their electorate. The U.S. Freedom Union, our group will support and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u102	People's deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u103	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, electoral district number 164, Ternopolishte, Zberish. Dear national MPs, colleagues! The "Freedom" interfractional union will of course support this rule because the will of the people remains unchanged. Wherever we go, whoever we talk to, people who are not angry with social justice and really are not equal before the law. The law must be equal to all: national MPs, judges, the President, and ordinary Ukrainians, because we see people speculate and abuse. We remember that a year ago, power that was usurped by a branch of power, in this case by the President, destroyed the Ukrainian state, shot at Midan, and destroyed us as a nation of Ukrainians. Only by the power of the spirit and the will did we manage to resist it. And in order for us not to stop again, society, on the same rakes, should not make painful mistakes. The main thing is that this law, which the President has proposed for us, does not take into account the standard: that everyone is equal before the law. Again, there are limits to avoid the responsibility of the judge and the President. Because this rule, which leaves it that the Supreme Council of Justice, by its consent alone, will deprive the judges of their inviolability, tells of what is going on in the constitutional coup d'état and the usurpation of power. In this case, already with the judicial branch, which will dictate conditions, in this case the legislative branch of power, and of course the presidential branch, of course, will be subject to control. So we demand that this rule be thrown out. And then really, it will be fair that everyone will be equal before the law. And today we are stressing all deputies to exercise political responsibility. Because you always say that to the electorate that you support, and finally, we're going to vote on that rule. And there will be changes to the Constitution that Ukrainian society so requires. Our political power supports this. And we believe that despite this situation in Ukraine today, we must unite and still find the right number of votes. And there is that. You have every reason to believe that you have a coalition -- over 300 votes. If that decision doesn't pass today, Your Honor, it will be your responsibility. So I urge all the deputies to vote, but given our suggestions that everyone should be equal before the law as deputies, judges and president. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u104	National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u105	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, as we have already said, of course, our free seven votes will definitely be in favour of such a bill. And even in principle, we wanted the Supreme Council to start its work with a similar initiative, but there were a few questions that we wanted to ask the rapporteur, the President's representative. Unfortunately, it didn't work out, so I'm going to give them now. Even though we clearly vote in favour, we clearly need to change legislation and take down the immunity of MPs. Still, why does article 105 not change? I will quote it in today's Constitution: "The President of Ukraine uses the right to be untouched at the time of the exercise of his mandate." Why was it not possible to make appropriate changes in this article? Why was it not possible to make appropriate changes to article 126, which reads as follows: "The ownership and inviolability of judges is guaranteed by the Constitution"? That's the second question. And the third question, article 149, is that there are guarantees of independence and inviolability to the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. These questions, they are today those who can answer, are we really for the equality of all citizens without exception before the law? Yes, of course, parliamentary immunity is a completely wrong thing, and it clearly needs to be changed, completely taken. And today we are simply obliged to vote for it. Yet, for the sake of justice, this must extend to all. And another thing I was going to say. Even though the disgraceful parliamentary intrusiveness continues today, and even though we are about to begin the process of withdrawing it for some time, there is still a question for today's Attorney General's Office: why is it not now being submitted to remove the parliamentary intrusiveness of those national MPs who are involved in the Mayan massacre? Why isn't that happening right now? You can do that! Today there is the Attorney General, today there are most votes, I hope, in Parliament that vote for the appropriate submission, and these deputies will be held accountable now and again. Why is this delay taking place? Why is it a year after it happened? The so-called "blood laws" were voted on January 16th, and so far all those who initiated, who adopted these laws, are not punished by any of them? Not only do we have such questions, but we also have great mistrust in the entire Ukrainian society. So we really have to start with ourselves, but we don't have to forget everything else. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u106	National MP Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, please, Radical Party. I'm a bad guy. I'm a people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u107	Glory to Ukraine! Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Today we all remember, we mention our heroes, the victims of the Celestial 100. And that's why one of the rules in this bill is a special masculinity. Of course, the long-suffering Ukrainian people prefer to remove the inviolability of the deputies, of the President, of the judges. And our faction, the Radical Party, will no doubt support it. Read what the law provides, carefully. Article 80: National MPs do not have legal responsibility for the result of voting or expressing themselves.'--and so on. Friends, it's an open church, because the MP has to be responsible for the results of his vote if they lead to tragic consequences. And in particular, there are deputies in this room who voted in favour of the January 16 laws. They killed over a hundred people. Rivers of blood were shed in Kiev and in Hmelnicka. Therefore, if we truly have respect for our heroes, we must, already when we vote on the bill, provide for a measure of responsibility for the results of the vote if they lead to tragic consequences. The brighter memories of those who suffered this have given their lives for Ukraine: Sergei Nigoyan, Yuri Verbicki, Antonina Dvorianc, Jacob Zaiko, Michaelo Zizniewski, Sergei Šapoval, Vladimir Kishtuk, Sergei Didic, Igor Serduk, Zurab Khursia, Viacheslav Veremey, Valerius Bradenuk, Andri Korcak, Vladimir Naumov, Alexander Kapinos, Alexander Pljehanov (1991), Alexander Pleishalov, Roman Varyev, Roman Torah, Viktor Czylenko, Oleg Culchinsky, Andrew Czernenko, Andriy Pashalzilcov, Roman Vymir Venec, Ivan Kishnuyev, Roman, Torah, Viktor Czyński, Oshniew, Olegukukuk, Vladimir Knorik, Vladimir Knorik Dmitry Czernyavsky, Peter Hadja, Anatoly Neciporenko, Yuri Sidorchuk, Alexander Grizzenko, as well as the death of heroes whose names are not installed. For the sake of their bright memory, when we vote for the removal of inviolability, we should certainly anticipate the rule that deputies should be held accountable for the results of their vote that have led to tragic consequences. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u108	It is a shame that we mention those who have lost the best each day. And unfortunately, we're losing people who aren't guilty of anything, who lived and wanted to live as ordinary citizens of the ordinary country. And in the 21st century, in the heart of Ukraine, they gave their lives to defend our independence, defending the rights of a great and beautiful country, the beautiful people of Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u109	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I'm very happy that the promise we made to society by signing the Coalition Agreement on the Elimination of Professional Immunities is starting to start. At the same time, we cannot help but note the fact that the proposed bill has a number of shortcomings and can result in the failure of this promise. First of all, what you want to pay attention to. If we're talking about the withdrawal, the attraction, more loyally, of the judges to the responsibility by giving permission to the High Council of Justice, we should remember that we are currently undergoing judicial reform in the country at the same time. One of the bills that is under consideration in the Supreme Council provides for the abolition of the existence of an organ such as the High Council of Justice and the creation of another body of judicial self-government, which will in fact have to deal with a similar kind of issue. So when we consider creating, more faithfully, the question of bringing judges to justice, the High Council of Justice, we need to understand that in a month, in two, we may not have such an organ in the country. Next question. A very important moment is the creation of an effective mechanism for attracting the President, not Peter Alexiyovich, but any President, because we accept changes to the Constitution, we want to believe that we will accept them once and for all, this is the basic law of our country. Therefore, without an effective mechanism to bring the responsibility of the President of Ukraine, i.e. the Impeachment Act, reform will not be complete and can lead to imbalances in the influence mechanisms in the state, which certainly can have negative consequences. In addition, it is important to note that a comprehensive analysis of the bill indicates that the removal of immunity from the deputies, which is certainly necessary, entails the need for effective reform of the judicial system, the judicial branch of power, and the law enforcement system. This is one of the things that we can't begin in the country, which is the reform of the law enforcement system, which is the reform of the militia. And in addition to that, we would like to add that there is a great desire for lawyers from the President's Administration not to lay down our President and prepare such high-quality drafts and submit them to a session room that will have no comment and will be supported by the constitutional majority that we have in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, Honorary Colleagues, the time for national MPs has run out of time, 15 minutes spent by the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall now. Attention, faction leaders! Attention, MPs! I'd like you to invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Take your seats. We're about to start voting, according to the legislation. We are about to start voting according to the legislation for the bill. Please, I ask everyone to take their seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Secretariat, invite MPs to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to a decision on this issue. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. All the national MPs? Ready to vote? Please, I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please listen carefully. In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law (registration number 176) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of the national deputies of Ukraine and judges). Please support this decision by voting. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[Applause]] [[13:08:25]] For 297 297 votes, decision taken. By procedure? Decision taken is 297. The factions, please. At the suggestion of Puckan Wallery, I would like to refer to MPs who have not voted for any reason, perhaps if they are in the room, to officially write an application for their vote. And those who did not vote should be printed in a roll call. It's a deal. We'll make the vote public by name, we'll make it public.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u111	We're going to publish on the Supreme Council website. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. We now have with you information from the head of the National Bank of Honduras on the state of the Ukrainian monetary system. It takes us 40 minutes to do that. 20 minutes for a speech by the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And 20 minutes will be for questions and answers. Dear Valery Alexiyevna, I beg your pardon. Rules – 20 minutes. I would ask the national deputies to listen carefully and to be accordingly very correct. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u112	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Your Honor! I am grateful for the opportunity to express myself from this high rostrum. I can tell you that I'm finally here. For more than a month, I asked Mr. Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u113	Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you to follow the Rules. Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you to abide by the Rules and all the national MPs. Dear colleagues, if you will. I'd like to warn you, Your Honor, if we're going to be in violation of this procedure right now, I'm going to close this meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I ask everyone to be disciplined, orderly, and respectful of the speaker. I'm asking the law enforcement authorities to do research on whether these costs are natural or false. If false, we need to consider the responsibility for distribution in the Supreme Council of False Currency. Thank you. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u114	I'm not a national MP, so I'm not used to this circus yet, but I'm finally here. For more than a month, I asked Mr. Groysman to include my report in the agenda and when it didn't happen. [[B in m in s a l in]] I had to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u115	I'm sorry, Valeria Alexiyevna, I'm sorry. Now I understand what the problem is. I talked about this, Valeria Alexovna, that last plenary week you asked me to invite you and I actually invited you on this Friday, that's true, I announced it from the Supreme Council Presidency, you remember that. Thank you. Please continue for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u116	No, it's not. So I've already had a press conference, it's been over two hours, so unfortunately, I'm sorry if I'm going to repeat some of these numbers today. I realize that there are a lot of questions, so I'm not going anywhere, but I'm going to answer all your questions. So I'm going to try to make my speech very concise so that we have a lot of time to ask questions, so let's start at the beginning. First of all, let's talk about the source of today's full-scale financial crisis. Unfortunately, the economic situation of Ukraine over the past 10 years has been a story of the accumulation of huge macroeconomic imbalances. That is, there is no correlation between the volume of production and consumption on a scale of the state that was covered by debt growth. So we have inherited these huge macroeconomic imbalances and the banking system, which has barely worked for the last six years, and also virtually not the working institution of all branches of government. And it clearly couldn't last forever, and the catalyst for today's financial crisis was first the annexation of Crimea, and then the real bloody war on Donbas. Hence the depression of economic activity and the deterioration of state finances and the pressure on the monetary and credit market, the deterioration of confidence in the banking system and the national currency. In figures it looks like this: a significant drop in GDP -- 7.5 percent last year, a steep devaluation of bracelets, almost 100 percent, from an economic point of view -- is 50 percent, but from our point of view how this market is accepted it is almost 100 percent. Consumer inflation, which reached nearly 25 percent and lost a third of the bank’s deposits. What do we have? The lowest ever since 2009 is the decline in the international reserves of the country, which now make up $7.5 billion. I remind you of the proper truth about war is that it's a huge budget spending, it's a population and business panic, it's a real loss of industrial territory, and that's where we live and work with you. At the same time, in our country, everyone knows that the main function of the National Bank is to ensure the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit. So now the question is, could the National Bank handle these unprecedented payments on its own? Is there any Constitution in the world that has placed exclusive responsibility on the central bank of the country for ensuring the stability of the monetary unit? Moreover, she appreciated not only the purchasing power of the bracelet but her exchange rate for the U.S. dollar, the euro, or the Russian ruble? Answer: There is no such thing in any country in the world. Because only the consolidated and shared responsibility of all branches of government can do so. And above all, this is a joint task between the government and the National Bank. Because the National Bank can't replace industry, it can't be an importer, it can't be an exporter, it can't be a customs, it can't be a tax service. The National Bank cannot create the balance of payments of the country on which the stability of the national currency depends. Because the course is just a mirror of what's happening in the economy of the state. And in math, the exchange rate is the derivative of payment. Sorry maybe, these are the correct truths, but I repeat them. And the National Bank can only temporarily close the imbalances with its foreign reserves through the market intervention mechanism or as the regulator of the banking system, once again, for a short period of administrative constraints. At the same time, the National Bank has not sought excuses and started reform immediately, because the difficult state of our economy is now, on the contrary, the reason to move even faster, it is a real accelerator for the speed of reforms. Sometimes it's said that we blindly follow the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund, but I want to say that, in my opinion, we have to move much faster than that of the International Monetary Fund, because unfortunately, this program didn't predict what happened in our country in the last six months. And I'm very glad that it was the National Bank that first started a radical renewal of the banking system and, in fact, itself. So what did the National Bank do during my leadership, and what are we going to do this year? As you know, last year, our country experienced two waves of devaluation and a fight against monetary panic. The reasons are clear. The current balance of payments account deficit in 2013 reached $16.5 billion. In support of the artificial course, the 8-level bracelets spent $23 billion of the country's currency reserves, including $4 billion in January and February this year. And as you know, the economy didn't help. The real GDP of the country in the last six years has not even reached 2008 levels at the beginning of last year. Because early in 2014, everyone realized that there was nowhere to go because there was a financial gap ahead. There is still no way to accumulate imbalances: a revolutionary situation has arisen; the end of criminal power has already been resolved. And all of this was done on a fixed course of bracelets to the U.S. dollar. Once again, the fixed rate of the bracelet that killed the competitiveness of our economy, which made no economic sense either to increase our exports or to build up imports or to introduce energy-saving technologies, was the path towards this financial gap. And the fear of making decisive reforms, both in the gas sector and in other sectors of the economy, including the banking sector that needed to be relaunched since 2008, has led to this terrible finale. But we all have the basic question today: Have we moved away from the edge of this chasm? The first step, even painful, we have already taken. In April last year, the government and the National Bank made a solid decision — to move to a flexible exchange rate. He was supported by the International Monetary Fund and other international creditors. So before I came to the National Bank, there was a significant devaluation of the bracelet — almost 50 percent. It was a shocking treatment for the treatment of accumulated imbalances. And by the beginning of August, when I was reporting here in the Supreme Council, reaching a fundamental level bracelet of 11.7 dollars per dollar, that was. The fundamental level has been reached because the current transactions at this level have already been completely balanced. The National Bank was set up to take down a left-hand portion of administrative restrictions, but it was known that at the end of August a real war had begun in our territory, and with it a new devaluation outflow caused by a huge demand for cash and currency in the interbank currency. At the end of September, when new currency fluctuations began, we decided that the market should help balance. If the industry is physically destroyed, no currency exchange rate will help the exporter to become competitive in the external markets. For almost a month and a half, the National Bank maintained a stable course at administrative and monetary intervention levels. We introduced a severe administrative restriction, a thorough review of import contracts, a ban on early repayments, and 75 percent of mandatory currency sales. We even banned the payment of dividends abroad. We also conducted weekly interventions at a fixed rate of 12.95 for both 100 million dollars a week and 200 million dollars a week to fill bank registers. During this time, the NBA spent $1.3 billion in monetary reserves on supporting the bracelet. And I'm sure that we did it right because at the time, population and business panic reached its peak, and the expectation of a full-scale war forced us to think about the extraordinary actions that central banks should bring in in the event of war, because, unfortunately, the military economy is not a market economy. So we were forced to take these temporary measures. And we never gave up the idea of a flexible market course for bracelets. When we saw in early November that the situation in the economy had improved, when we replaced the GDP drop forecast from 9 percent to 7.5 percent, when our exporters even in the ATO area started working, when contracts for buying gas for winter had already been reached, and when the new Supreme Council had been chosen entirely pro-European, the National Bank decided, without cancelling administrative restrictions, to help the market find a balanced course called the Equilibrium. So we started daily five million dollar foreign exchange auctions not to satisfy the demand of importers, but as a tool for finding this balance. Unfortunately, the market has not yet found this balance. The market is still looking forward to this balance, because there are some results, the course fluctuations are moderate enough. And I also want to point out that the sale of NAC Naftogaz's NBU is still direct from the currency reserves. So when the panic gets better, we'll immediately see that the supply of currency on the market is going to be more than demand. When the country’s largest importer does not buy currency in the interbank market, there should be a surplus. Now let's go to the monetary policy that the National Bank conducted last year. It is quite clear that the implementation of the monetary policy of the NBA has been carried out under socio-political pressure, unfavourable macroeconomic trends, which have intensified military action in the eastern part of the country. But it is worth noting that the National Bank has supported the State budget of the military country. For this we have many critics, including critics of the National Bank Board. In a peaceful time of peace, I would be first against the monetaryization of government debt. But let's try to analyze the calls. The government budget deficit was 63 billion dollars, which was practically financed by the National Bank through the purchase of government securities. Because the funds of the International Monetary Fund and other international creditors of $9 billion were spent on recovering old external debts. More than 20 billion bracelets from this amount went to the needs of an ATO army. Others were spent exclusively on protected budget articles — salaries and pensions. But the question is, Who else could have done this? Capital markets for a country in a state of war are closed, and none of the investors could do that anymore. It's a separate story with NAC Naftogaza. 8.6 billion dollars were sold from the country's reserves for Naftogazu NAK. It's not a secret that Naftogaz NAK needs reform, and it's going on. But his balance takes time and concerted action by the executive branch. And everyone needs a warm home right now. So the government has increased the NAC Naftogazu statutory fund to 104 billion dollars that NAC Naftogaz spent on gas and old debt, with Gazprom, by 3.1 billion dollars, and with Eurobonds totalling 1.7 billion dollars. But these costs never went to market, and they didn't put pressure on the bracelet, as I've said over and over again, because all of these payments were made at the expense of the country's currency reserves, but the country was losing reserves, so the level of the currency reserves has reached a minimum since 2009, and now it's $7.5 billion. But the National Bank has doubled its portfolio of government securities, which at the end of the year amounts to 317 billion dollars, or more than 70 percent of all government local loans, and has funded the government and Naknaftogaz at 175 billion dollars or almost 40 percent of the country's budget. I emphasize that the exhaustion of our gold reserves, external debt commitments, and the delay in the International Monetary Fund’s assistance planned at the end of this year, but has been delayed in connection with the Supreme Council’s early elections and the formation of a new government, have had a very negative impact on Ukraine’s borrowing prices both in international markets and in the local currency market. There was also a renewed flow of deposits from the banking system, which reached 126 billion dollars or 29 percent last year. So we need to act very quickly. We can say that we are already in a full-scale financial crisis, which can only be overcome by decisive action, by a significant budget economy and by the financial support of international donors. Only confidence in the future can restore the confidence of the population and business to the banking system. For the NBA, the crisis is a time of decisive action, so we did not sit around and expect that "the border will help us" but started a real reconstruction of the banking sector. We've done three of the most important things. First of all, we've fundamentally changed our approach to refinance banks, we're clearing out the banking system and strengthening it, and finally, we're starting to reform the banking system. Let me take a closer look at these points. First of all, we've fundamentally changed our approach to refinance banks. Now no one can get a refund at the National Bank on a questionable, inadequate mortgage, just confirmation of the value of this pledge by leading international companies, is the basis for receiving a stable loan to the National Bank. And a stable loan can only be obtained if there is a curator of a bank that actually follows up on the purpose of using that loan. Such loans for my cadence were granted five and only to drain deposits within guaranteed deposits. A modern autorefination program for banks has also been developed under the VDP bailout by means of a transparent weekly auction system. So when I see another insinuation about the amount of refinancing, I want to give you statistics. During my tenure, banks returned more than they had been issued. This is because at the end of September, in view of the situation in Donbas, we announced bank vacations for stabilisation loans for a period of three months and prepared a special program for restructuring such loans for a period of four years. I recall that by the time I arrived at the National Bank, he had given banks 35.6 billion dollars first last year, and at the end of the year, it was 34 billion dollars. Hence, the numbers speak for themselves. In my office, the refund was more than a billion dollars more than it had been issued in the first year. But in order not to lose investor confidence and ensure timely settlement and return of deposits to the population, the National Bank, as the creditor of the last facility, has to keep an eye on the liquidity of the market. So when I hear that the National Bank has paid 90 billion dollars to banks in the last week, I want to inform you that the balance of the refinancing loans issued in the entire history of Independent Ukraine is now 110 billion dollars, or 7 percent of GDP, of which the GDP market loans are 14 billion dollars or less than one percent of GDP. And the left-hand side of the stabilisation loans is just loans that were granted during the years 2008-2013 and are still not returned to the National Bank. Regrettably, a large part of the amount of funds in support of bank liquidity is the result. I still have a lot of information. Regrettably, a large part of bank liquidity support has been converted into cash outside banks, with an increase of 19 percent. But the increase in the monetary base last year was only 10.2 tenths or 31 billion because they spent other currency reserves on Naknaftegas. So when I hear about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u117	I'm asking you to give me two more minutes. [[Noise Nodes]] We don't limit it. Please. Mrs. Valerius, Mrs. Valerius, I ask you to finish for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u118	Okay. Two minutes. So throughout history, the issue of bracelets is 338 billion dollars to make sure that you understand this, so that no 100 billion, 900 billion, will ever see it or hear it. The chief messiah. In support of the regulator as the creditor of the last facility, banks can calculate if they are able to pay and only have short-term liquidity problems due to deposits. If they have sufficient capital or approved programs to capitalize and have an acceptable mortgage. Secondly, we're cleaning up the banking sector. Maybe this will be the answer, 33 banks have already been removed from the market, 7 of them for violating legislation in the area of illegal money-laundering. We've had the stress of testing 40 banks. We've raised the demand for bank capital, now new banks. The capital of the new banks will be 500 million dollars. Bank recapitalisation is already under way. Recapitalization programs are already available. 18 institutions need recapitalisation – 66 billion dollars. And finally reforming the banking system. We started off on our own. We cut more than 50 percent of our staff. We do. This program is ongoing because we are rebuilding all processes, us. Now we're rebuilding all our branches. 25 territorial governments will no longer be in this country, there will only be 4 clusters. We of the 11,000 of our employees will have only 5,000 employees by the end of this year. We're selling non-profile assets. We've cut our treasure more than twice, from 11 billion to 5, by 6 billion dollars. All this money will go to the state budget this year. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u119	All right, Mrs. Valeria. I'm very happy for you. 30 seconds, come on. Because you're going to have time for answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u120	We have to say what we're going to do this year. First of all, the price stability in the state is the task of the National Bank. To do this, we need to move to inflationary targeting. But there must be prerequisites for him. First of all, you have to stop the fiscal dominants, the fiscal dominants. Fiscal domination is a wrong monetary policy, it's a fiscal and oil-gas policy. So the monetary policy next year on the part of the National Bank will be very balanced. I'll put the numbers on inflation when there's questions. Therefore, the National Bank plans to increase the monetary base by 27 percent or 91 billion and is ready to support the government, the guarantee fund and the banking system of Ukraine only within these limits. This is calculated based on inflation of 17.2 percent. The main post office I'd like to finish my speech with.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u121	All of it. Mrs. Valeria, thank you very much. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. Give me 30 more seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u122	The main medium is: The National Bank will continue to use a flexible exchange rate system, so we'll never have a fixed exchange rate again. That's why the National Bank will never be (well, for my cadence, and that's not a problem), we're just going to give our information on inflation, on GDP, on GDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u123	Now I'm asking you to sign up for factions, first of all factions. Please sign up for the question. 20 minutes to ask. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u124	I'd like to hand over the deputy to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u125	Deputy Ostrikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u126	Dear Mrs. Head of the National Bank, I have the following question that relates to your main job. When the National Bank of Ukraine admits that there are several courses in Ukraine and, in particular, there is a black course, a real course that exporters form in conspiracies with banks. This course is now about 19, and colleagues say it has already exceeded 20.5 bracelets. If the importer does not agree to pay in one way or another, this delta - the difference between your official course and the black course - it is devoid of currency, which means it cannot meet its obligations to a foreign supplier. Thus, 95 percent of the contracts for today’s purchase and sale of currency are made in the black market under the scheme described above. I would like to ask you what effective measures you are taking to overcome this phenomenon? Like today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u127	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u128	As I have already pointed out, when there is currency deficit in the country, the National Bank introduces and when the National Bank is unable to intervene in significant proportions, the National Bank introduces administrative boundaries. And it's very painful for the market when it exists. So as long as there are administrative restrictions until then, there will be companies that will try to bypass it. So the black market, the gray market is a very good question, because the course you're talking about, I know that some real transactions are, but it's not market exchange. And when we're with you. Unfortunately, the currency market's liquidity is so low, it's so low, and the demand is much higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u129	Please give me 10 minutes to finish. Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u130	Me? Our main task is to have one course real and effective. That's why I'm the first one. When I was meeting with 40 banks this Monday, I suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u131	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u132	I hope that when international organizations declare this great assistance, we will find this balance more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Valeria. National MP Alexander Kodol.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u134	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear Valery Alexiyevna! When you were assigned to office, Ukraine’s gold reserves amounted to about $20 billion. In the days of Nazbank, he published information that Ukraine’s gold reserves amount to $7.5 billion. This is the lowest figure in the history of Ukraine. So the question to you is, where have you spent more than $13.5 billion in six months of your work, and what are the ways to solve and increase these reserves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u135	Well, for starters, when I was in office, they were 16 billion. I can tell you that just in your speech, if you listen to it, 8.6 billion reserves were sold directly to NAC Naftogaz and 1.3 billion were sold through interventions to support the exchange rate in September and October of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please! We've been waiting so long for this report, and you've been so insistently inviting Mrs. Potter to the hall! So I ask you to take your seats, sit down, and I ask you to pay attention. Thank you. Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u137	I ask you to pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u138	National Deputy Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u139	National Deputy Alona Babak, Self-Help faction. Valeria Alexiyevna, please tell me a question of bank supervision. I'm looking at the equity commercial bank Kiev, and I want to show you a situation that's been brought together. There's a investor who asked the bank to get his pension money, the bank doesn't give money, says he doesn't have it. When the investor approached Nazbank, Nazbank replied that according to article 5 on banks and banking, the bank could not interfere with the activities of banks. Please tell me, if the bank is actually insolvent and the National Bank of Ukraine cannot influence such a bank, please tell us how the stability of the banking system can be ensured if you cannot actually influence the situation when the bank does not fulfil its obligations to the investor? Tell me, how can you be in a system like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u140	I can say that banks are probably the least of our banking system's problems, because it's a very small bank. Unfortunately, we have such problems, very serious, in our banking system. To that end, there is a mechanism for recapitalizing banks and a mechanism for liquidating national banks, recapitalized banks. But the Kiev Bank, if that's a question for the Kiev Bank, the owner of the Kiev Bank is the Ministry of Finance, so we're now deciding on the issue. Because the Kiev Bank, well, it's a question of the Guarantee Fund or joining another state bank. Until the issue is resolved, no one can get the money, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u141	Thank you. National Deputy Yvchenko Vadim
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u142	Please pass it on to Lucenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u143	National Deputy Igor Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u144	Dear Valery Alexiyevna! (I'm here.) The Honourable Valery of Alexiyevna, today the banking and monetary system of Ukraine, well, effectively destroyed, will acknowledge the facts: the bracelets have ceased to be trusted. First of all, why? Because Natzbank has had gold reserves stockpiled during this period. You know how many clean reserves are left: it's very small. What's it got to be about? Because of the sale of dollars to selected banks. Billions of dollars of Nazbank simply melted into these selected banks. Let me remind you, in October, 300 million a day went somewhere. And Ukrainians are now forced to buy dollars in the black market at a catastrophic rate. In reality, we now have 4 courses, which is a huge opportunity for corruption. I have a question: Do you realize your responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u145	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u146	Are you aware of your responsibility for this situation, and what steps do you take to deal with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u147	I realize my responsibility every day. And not just for this, but for the real macroeconomic situation of the whole country. So I already said that our reserves of $8.6 billion of our reserves we sold directly to Naftogazu NAC and only 1.3 billion was spent in support of the currency exchange when there was a real war situation in the country. That's why. Well, what's that about? What can I say? The normal market per day is probably 300 million per day. But now that our exports have dropped by 20 percent, because in the ATO we have 15 percent of our GDP and 20 percent of our export potential. Unfortunately, we don't have enough money. And the demand from the population is three times higher. It's not three times normal, it's a hundred times normal. That's why I'm collecting the currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u148	Thank you. National MP Maxim Polyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u149	Mrs. Gontareva, I have a question for you. How did you get in, even though you looked at the top of the sign? What do you do for a living? You're not the head of the Post Office in Glevis. I have three questions for you. First question. Please tell the banking system as a whole from 1/05/ to 1.12. A total of $41 billion was purchased by commercial banks. Of these, 7 billion dollars were spent on Cyprus by commercial banks during the same period of your work. This is your personal responsibility. The second question. You said the 33 banks you pulled out. But why is there no bank in these banks for the Yanukovich family? I call you banks: Fidobank (Arbusz-Colobov), Smartbank (Zharchenko), Yunison "Bank" (Klimenko), Investment and Trust Bank (Zharchenko), Financial Bank (Zharchenko), Ukrainian Business Bank (Januković-Arbusov), Bank Capital (Klimenko), is your personal responsibility, because these costs are spent abroad. And the third question. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u150	Well, first of all, I can tell you that this is some kind of nonsense, because there was nothing outside my box. Because at the beginning of September we introduced such administrative weights that you all came to me and with only criticism that even a normal import contract was very difficult to pay. And from the side of the Janukovich bank, so I can tell you that. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u151	Dear national deputies, national deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u152	I'm sorry. Not everyone came. Okay? It's going to be in another one of my performances. Because that's the answer, not everyone came. Not all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u154	So as far as Janukovitch Bank, as far as I know, three banks are now suing us because they're Yanukovich Banks and we're taking them out of the market. One of them was the All-Ukrainian Development Bank, the Bank of Yanuković. There are no questions or problems with liquidity or capital in this bank. We've been drawn up in three stages because we don't have the right laws to bring this bank out at one stage, but we did. Because sanctions were able to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u155	Thank you. National Deputy Osuhovsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u156	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u158	Lechenko in Freedom. Mrs. Gotarev, you're using the very right words, smart, English, like: "." Well, you're not the only one who knows English. I'd like to ask if you know such a thing as "." behavioral finance is the kind of thing that any student in the first year of any Western economic college is studying. It's that you can't go out in public on a talk show and report on Natzbank's plans. Because it causes panic — panic in the market. You've done this all the time, and now it's a little bit smaller, but especially because of your behavior, there was a huge beginning to the flow of capital from the banking system. Do you think you're proficient after things like this when you're basic first-class stuff you don't know? That's the first question. And the second question is, why did Natzbank go to the market repeatedly last year and buy a dollar at an overpriced rate, at a price that was higher than the market at that time? And that's how I artificially raised the dollar rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u159	That's a very good question. Because there's an excess course. It's a once-in-a-lifetime National Bank in a state company that's been buying $100 million on the market. It was probably early in the summer. And the course was 11.7. So thank you for being an "excessed" course. But we did it because it was a very large sum of disposable money for the market. The market already had a balanced course at this level of 11.70. And that's what we needed, too, because we needed to meet the International Monetary Fund beacon on our currency reserves. As far as behavior is concerned, I can't comment, because unfortunately, the market panic began more than a year ago. It started in October of the 13th year of the revolution, then with the annexation of Crimea. Regrettably, there was still war. So I can comment only on the fact that, with my coming, I was already happier than Mr. Cuba, because with my coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u160	Thank you. People's MP, Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u161	Thank you. Spark, Opposition Block. Dear Mrs. Head. The 2015 budget states that the government budget’s revenues from the National Bank’s activities will amount to more than 60 billion. At the same time, the National Bank Board confirms only 34 billion for this year. Do you confirm the amount that is now in the State Budget? The second question. The State budget stands at 2 figures: a deposit guarantee fund of 20 billion and 25 billion for the recapitalisation of banks. Do you think it will be fair that instead of the bankrupt owners of banks, the problems and problematic assets of these banks will be paid directly by the state of Ukraine and by ordinary citizens of Ukraine. And the third question. What was the amount of the refinancing that you gave to commercial banks went to the currency market. And what banks and what kind of a catch-up did they bring from the National Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u162	First of all, the first question may be about refinancing. As I have already noted, the National Bank has issued only five stable loans for my office, and all of these were issued only for the return of deposits under the guaranteed fund. The curators traced it to every penny. There are all the reports on this. So none of this came out of the banking market. But if the population got their money in banks, they could go to a secondary currency market, cash, and buy the currency in the middle. indirectly, there could have been some kind of influence. As for the first question. National Bank income: The 65th projected National Bank income this year is 65 billion dollars. Therefore, the National Bank does not deny that the projected profit is overstated.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u163	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u164	I'll tell you what happened. This happened once in our lives because we sold currency reserves, our nets, and they gave us courses of differences that have already been made. That's why it's such a high profit. But this is once in our lives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, this is going to be on the 15th, because this is the 14th year. I agree with you, it's not like it won't help us in our lives, for all of our lives, it's a one-time thing. But the National Bank can count this money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u165	Thank you, National Deputy Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u166	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Head of the National Bank! Three months ago, the whole country watched with great interest how you tried to buy $200 in the bank office. According to your standards and your own ideas, it seemed like it was very easy to do so. But you failed. So please tell us how citizens of Ukraine who do not have large savings do not trust the banking system because of the black market that is now flourishing because of your leadership. How can you buy them dollars? Where can they do this, and at what course, if not in the black market? And the second part of the question. During the three months that have passed, please tell us how many dollars, where and what course did you personally buy? One more thing. Tell the country what the salary of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u167	You've now asked a very easy question about the salary. You've frozen it at 7 minimum wages. I don't agree with that salary, I can tell you. I don't agree with either myself or the government of the National Bank or the heads of departments. We don't agree with that salary, but that's a very easy answer. Because it's worth 10,000 dollars a month. We do not agree with this, so we hope that the Supreme Council will change these. [[Noise Nodes]] That's it. Well, I can't. Where can I buy a currency? The first question is yes. You don't have to buy a currency because anyone who wants to buy a currency is panicking. If you are going abroad you can use your payment card where it will be. And pay with a credit card anything you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u168	Thank you. National MP Gregory Timish. That's the last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u169	Mr. Chairman, please give the floor to the Deputy Solov Jury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u170	National MP Yuri Solovay
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u171	Dear Mrs. Gottarieva! I want to say that in the last year, Nazibank has done everything in its power to kill the middle class and the small and medium-sized business in Ukraine. And he has to be successful in admitting it. But at the same time, I want to say that you either don't fully understand the question or you don't know the subject. You said the course is suppressing the payment balance of Ukraine. So in nine months, we have a positive balance of payments. The lack of professionalism of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine today puts pressure on the course. That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me that millions of Ukrainian people today have become hostages to foreign exchange loans. How, when and in what way will the National Bank address this issue? That's the first question. And the second question. All over the world, the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u172	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u173	Worldwide, the National Bank is the main economic instrument for economic development. All over the world today, loans can be taken under zero percent of one or two. In Ukraine, the National Bank account rate is 14 percent. Is that what's driving the economy? When will the National Bank start lowering the National Bank's account rate and stimulating economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u174	Now to prevent inflation, which we predict is 17 percent for the next year, our monetary committee is even considering increasing this rate. Because we have to when we talk about the stability of the national unit -- the stability of our prices. About the foreign exchange memorandum. Along with Ukraine's largest banks, the currency lenders, we've prepared a memorandum that I think will now come to the aid of all of our monetary debtors. Because, as you know, the National Bank has already passed a bill. supported the Knazević bill, which was voted in the summer, but unfortunately, because there was exchange rate of 11.7. Unfortunately, there's no such thing today, so we think we're going another way now. It's because of the memo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u175	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u176	We've already registered to you. invited the MP to register Bill 0939, where we demand and ask you to make tax concessions for such.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u177	Let me finish. Done? People's deputy Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u178	Thank you. The People's Front faction, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we've called an officer, the head of the National Bank, to report. First of all, no one listened to her, second of all, we don't have any discipline in the room, and third of all, when we call an officer, let's treat a woman as an official, not as a pianist and insult her as a woman. Because it's dishonest to do such a thing with a woman, because honor, Ukraine and a woman must be sacred concepts for every man, that's the first. So I'm asking the leader of the Radical Party faction to apologize to the woman first. Now the question to the head of the National Bank. Why does the National Bank not apply regulatory mechanisms? That's the first one. And secondly, why do we have problems with deposit withdrawal and people have a rather problematic situation when they get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u179	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u181	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u182	First question, can I ask you again? Deposits. And the first electronic question, I didn't hear it. I'll start with the deposits, and I didn't hear the first question, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u183	Turn on the microphone so that you can hear the first question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u184	First question. Why does the National Bank not apply regulatory mechanisms? The other one. Why can’t investors withdraw their deposits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u185	Electronic mechanisms?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u186	Regulatory mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u187	Oh, regulators? It's bad to hear. First of all, we use electronics. control mechanisms. Unable to set administrative limits at this time, not possible. Our main task as soon as we get the support of international organizations, I hope we'll start taking these restrictions down. Now this $200 per person, now it's a review of all contracts, 75 percent of mandatory sales, it's a constraint, we still can't afford to pay dividends. How can we hope that there will be investment in this country, when we can't, we won't let people pay dividends. That's why we're here. If things get worse, there'll be no other way for the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u188	Let me finish. Are you finished, Mrs. Valeria? And the last question, National Deputy Golovko, is all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u189	Let me finish and we'll finish, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u190	Valeria Alexiyevna, I'd like to say that no matter what you do, you're raising the bill again, because that's going to bring back the course of the Ukrainian bracelet, getting the money out of the real sector, putting it in the banks and taking it out into the offshore. As it happened, 41 billion, I'm sorry, Mrs. Valeria, 41 billion dollars you sold today in the Ukraine market, of which 32 went off-shore through basic banks and other structures. You're giving refinancing to Russian banks like Prominestbank, WTB, Alpha Bank, Sberbank Russia billions, officially 179 billion dollars. As long as the Ukrainian economy is financed by Russian banks that are now funding terrorists in the East. I think it's the biggest crime. So for what happened in Ukraine, the fall of the national bracelet and all these crimes in any civilised state would have put you in retirement for a long time. I think Parliament will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u191	Is it a declaration, or is it a question, or how, what are we going to do? Retirement or respond?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u192	Thank you for your comment, Mr. Glaucoma. Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u193	I've already given information about how many National Banks have sold currencies, and I can't comment on any insinuation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u194	Thank you very much. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u195	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I was invited by a colleague to apologize to Mrs. Gonnaareva. Of course, if that is true, I am ready to apologize. But I have a question: who will answer, and when Mrs. Gotarov apologizes to millions of Ukrainians for the fact that her policies have led to the poverty of millions of people, that they have doubled their savings because of you, that they have doubled the prices in stores because of your activities? When did Mrs. Gontareva apologize for giving billions, hundreds of billions of refinances to commercial banks? They've moved abroad, they've transferred money, people can't buy $100 today. When will Mrs. Gontareva apologize for having four courses in Ukraine, and as a result, at least the black market is $200 million a day? That is why, instead of apologizing, Gontareva should sit in prison, and Parliament must vote in favour of resigning this banter! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, thank you to the head of the National Bank, she courageously answered your questions. I thank you for the information provided and for the answers to the questions raised by the national deputies. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies. And the people's deputies, I'd like to ask you to be tolerant of anyone who's standing in this rostrum. It's respect for both the reporter and every MP in the session room. It is not possible to break the rules by representing the Ukrainian Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. Let us consult, honourable national MPs. At two o’clock, we finished our morning session. There's a need. No speeches. There is that we concluded the meeting, the Friday session of the Supreme Council. There is an offer to continue for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't announce five recesses during one session, do you understand that or not?Oh, my God! So we have you with us, it's already been announced twice, we have to continue the meetings with you, vote on how to put this to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer: who's in charge of continuing the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 3 p.m., the morning meeting by 3 p.m. Who is in charge of continuing the meetings of the Supreme Council until 3 p.m.? [[14:09:23]] For-152. The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll take my right: I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes. The meeting will be closed at 2 p.m. for 25 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't you hear? It'll be over at 14 o'clock, 25 minutes. That's it, thank you. 15 minutes. A few announcements, distinguished colleagues. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union for Kiev in the Supreme Council. The head of this interfractional union is Novak Natalija Vasilovna, Lucenka Igor Viktorovich. Next. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60, I report the arrival of a national. Wait a minute! The way out first. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovic, from the MP's "Will of the People" group. Next statement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, into the MP's Economic Development Group. Thank you, Your Honor. Oleg Lazko is asking for words. Please, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u197	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! There is a proposal to include in the agenda Bill No. 1778 is a bill amending article 41 of the Act on Shareholder Associations (as regards the reduction of the interest rate on quorum). As you remember, the Prime Minister said in the morning that they were ready to support this bill, because the previous bill, which we voted on two days ago, did not seem to take into account the Ukrnaftu, which is the largest state society, and today has no control over the state. So we propose to include this bill, now to vote in favour of putting this bill into the agenda. There is a decision by the Anti-Corruption Committee to support this bill, and we propose that this bill should now be voted on as a basis and as a whole in order to allow the state to regain control of state societies. At the same time, I appeal to all factions of the coalition to unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u198	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to ask everyone to take their jobs for the national MPs. Deputy Kaplin, please. Have a seat, please. For. Take your seat, please. Signal vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u199	Dear Sir, your head! I'd like to come to you with a proposal, first to vote a vote in advance for us. For inclusion in the agenda. And a signal vote for us to clearly determine the potential of the House to vote on the laws. I'm officially turning to the People's Front faction to support this anti-oligarchy law. I'm convinced that tens of millions of pensioners, people will give jobs, just bow down to you for every voice you give. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u200	National Deputy Yemen, People's Front. Then there's Homutinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, in order to remove all innuendo, the People's Front faction and last time it was ready to vote for the same kind of bill, only more legal and perfect, unfortunately, it just didn't happen. So the People's Front faction confirms that it will vote in favour of the bill and has no other position. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor. Homutinian, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, if such bills are adopted, simply by vote, the previous bill has been adopted. But it hasn't been two days since the bill was passed, it's not even signed to the President yet, you're already adopting a new bill. But what will you do with the bill? That's the first one. Secondly, tell me if all the regulatory procedures, committees and everything else were going through. You prepare yourself, you write a normal bill, the more is the coalition's will, and you accept the bill once. But with all due respect. And I ask you, head, to follow regulations when adopting drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u204	Dear fellow national MPs, there is a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. There's nothing complicated about this proposal. That's when they report that there was a committee decision to be a report and so on -- just according to the Rules, there can't be any other proposals here. That's why I'm voting on the proposal of the National MP Laka to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law (registration number 1778) to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations (to reduce the interest rate for Quorum). No.1778. Who's in favour, please vote. In general, I ask you to proceed with the vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[14:16:47]] For-195 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, by factions, you see. Peter Poshenko's Block – 69, People's Front – 39, Opposition Block – 7, Self-help – 27, Radical Party – 21, Father's Party – 14, Will of the People – 2, Economic Development – 0, non-fractional – 16. Please. Please give me a minute, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u205	Dear fellow MPs! I'm talking to you. There are cards in the hall. 258 cards registered. Now it's 195. I refer to those whose cards stand in the hall and who do not vote for the anti-oligarchy law. This law is a billion-dollar issue. Billions. It's a restoration of the power of the state to control its property. I'm addressing the People's Front faction, whose representative just said they're supporting this bill. Half the faction did not vote. We ask the same of some other coalition deputies: back up! This vote is a test for the people and for the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u206	Please, Yuri Bereza, People's Front. Yuri Bereza, please, I told you about this. Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u207	I'd like to draw our attention, especially to the leader of the Radical Party. I'm going to my colleagues at the Dust Block. First of all, I would like to point out that you remember the first time the head of the Radical Party introduced this law. There was a better law, but we didn't look at it, you gave us up. I would like to point out that no one will vote in favour of this law without being considered in a profile committee, and I, among other things, will not vote in favour of this law. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u208	Dear fellow national MPs. Look. Dear colleagues, listen. Come on, stop fighting. I'm underlining that. Listen. Listen, people's deputies, be careful. Careful! Andrew Ivanchuk, please. Listen very carefully. You start fighting where you don't have to fight. We need to make decisions in a consistent manner, not fight. But if it is now unprepared in the House of Parliament, it should not be brought down now. Because I'm going to start thinking about who's doing it in principle. I just put him to the vote. You don't have to. You don't have to. It was the first time he had been voted. Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u209	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Bill 1778 was drafted for the Yegor Sobolev Committee. And from what I understand, the chairman of the committee said that he was holding a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-16-m0.u210	Now it's not about committee meetings, it's about getting into the agenda, and now you don't need to vote on that. Please, I'm re-voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[14:21:26]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. I declare the meeting closed. Please, by the factions. Block of Petra Poroshenko – 72, National Front – 40, Opposition Block – 10, Self-help – 27, Radical Party – 22, Fatherland – 15, Will of the People – 2, Economic Development – 0, non-fractional – 16. I declare the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
