ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! I want to make an announcement. In view of the current meeting of the Coalition Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the beginning of the morning session will take several minutes. Please wait. 11 o'clock. 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall to start our work, not as simple as it is necessary for the country. Please come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for registration. As the MPs come in, I would like to inform you that there has been a meeting of the Coalition Council, which has proposed an order for today's consideration of issues, including election issues, and the issues required by the IMF, both military and security issues. That's why it's very important for us to have a high level of mobilization, to work all the time today, because we've delayed our jobs. And to do that, you need maximum mobilization in the hall. I'm asking you to come in and prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration, your honor. Prepared? I'd like you to sign up. [[11:25:42]] 376 deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open. At the beginning of the session, as long as the Prime Minister, the Government and the Head of the Supreme Council approach, 1 minute for Igor Guzu to speak from the rostrum. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u3	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends! Igor Gus, Volin County, 19th District. I want to take this opportunity to address you all, the Prime Minister and the President. The point is, yesterday we learned that the Volina deputies, the second in the country, want to appoint a member of the Regional Council of Volin, a former member of the Party of the Regions, who was already in charge of Lvivsky, Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Ravenski Customs, who was one of Kaletnik's wallets, Roman Mikityuk. I'm addressing everyone in this room, and we, the Volina deputies, are not going to let the regionals run the second customs office in our country. We address all our colleagues, do not allow them, and turn to Mr. Nasirov. If Mr. Nasirov wants to place customs on Ukraine's people Kaletnik-Janukovich, Mr. Nasirov will leave his post. So I call upon all parliamentarians to join and not to allow Roman Mikituk, the acting deputy of the district council who passed through the party of regions that supported Yanukovich, to run the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u4	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u5	I'm asking my colleagues to get involved and not to let that happen. Get off Roman Mikituk and the governor of the area who is pushing this man into this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear fellow national deputies, please take your seats. I apologize for the factions of the coalition for the long consultations on the beginning of the plenary session. And in this regard, there is a proposal for everyone to concentrate on the job. Please take your seats. Please. Dear colleagues, there is the next suggestion today to build our work as follows. To consider the question now, listen very carefully! On the agenda, on the ratification with the European Union (0031), on the IMF, on the law on cooperation with the IMF, on the three laws on local elections (2831), on the other hand, on the other hand, on the four (2831, 2831-1, -2, -3), and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the four laws relating to military, defence, four laws. Now that we're voting for it, I'm gonna name the numbers. Among these questions will be the question of personnel, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda, I'm just declaring it to be. Next: I have an offer, my dear friends, I have a great agenda, I have an offer to start work right now and work until the end of the day without interruption, until the day's order is fully exhausted. Such order is offered today, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, dear friends. And so, first. I propose the next order of business for the day. We are voting for inclusion in the agenda. Next, ratification (0031), next question of personnel, we'll consider. The next question is that we will consider the IMF: (2956, 2742, 2743, 2966, 2045, 2879, 2029, 2873). Next: the election laws of the entire package of laws, we'll discuss how we should and we'll make decisions on this issue, we don't drag this issue down -- it's 2831-1, 2831-2 and 2831-3. And then four military laws (2980, 2074 and 2011 and 2767). It's this complex offer. Let's see, we're going to have a consultation right now, there's no questions about that, that's going to be the seventh question, we're going to have a consultation and we're going to be clear on that. I heard, I heard, I heard, I understand, colleagues. I found out what the question was. Hence, respectable colleagues, such order is proposed for consideration. One minute, one minute. That is how the agenda for the day’s consideration is now proposed, including a nonstop vote. Please be prepared. We're not voting on any laws right now. I'll give you my word during the consideration. And also with the work uninterrupted, what we agreed on. Now, this is the order, the order and everything, please confirm. Colleagues, please prepare to vote on this order of work, please. And then we'll be on the bill. Please, colleagues, please identify yourself and support this proposal. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote for the local elections and everything else. Vote please, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Well, you're late, aren't you? [[11:32:38]] For 208 Let us once again vote on this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not getting into the agenda right now. Not right now. How to deal with matters. I'll give you a day's work during the day's work. I'll give the day's work a day's work. I didn't declare the law by day. Including, we're not looking at this issue right now. We're going to be the first to consider the order of the day. Guys, I'm asking for my proposal, which I just announced, to support the voting in the order of our work, including the work without interruption. No, now in the daytime order -- we're going to form the laws of the day and vote. Colleagues, please support this proposal for our work, including uninterrupted work. Please. Yeah, no breaks. We would like to vote on the proposal that I have announced. Please vote, colleagues. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:33:41]] For 213 What's the problem? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute. Once again, let me rephrase my proposal, which I have announced under the transcript: on the order in which laws are reviewed and the work is done without interruption. Vote please, colleagues. Vote please, colleagues, please! Please, I beg you to vote! Vote please, fellows! Vote, fellows! Vote please! [[11:34:19]] For 204 My colleagues, once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal -- the one that I announced under the transcript: the order in which questions are addressed, the work without interruption and the best possible way to work today. Please, we're all clear. Please, please, colleagues, put in the order of the day. Please, please. Let's vote. Colleagues Ready to Vote or Not? Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Come on. work without interruption and consideration of the laws that I have announced. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote! [[11:36:53]] For 213 I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, once again, dear colleagues. The motion for a vote on the procedure for consideration: we form the agenda, we conduct ratifications, the IMF – issues I have announced, elections – 4 laws and military three laws – 2980, 70. 2074a, 2767. We are voting on such an order of conduct. Everything else is in order of the day, which is formed. Is it accepted? Let's vote, colleagues. Please support this proposal. And work uninterrupted, colleagues. Don't stop! We have to make that decision. We have to make this decision. Vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] If there's a parliamentary decision, we'll call it a break. I can do that. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:38:30.]] For 221 Oh, that's better. There's potential. Please, colleagues, let me repeat this proposal that I have announced. Calm down! Take your seats. Calm down. Please let's support this proposal again, colleagues. So if we have to call it a break, at the request of two factions, we'll do it. Have you made a deal with your colleagues? But now we have a morning session to decide what we're working on. All right, colleagues. So we vote. From 12 to 12.30 we'll take a break and from 12.30 we'll continue our work. Do you have a deal? No more breaks. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. Take your seats, everyone. We're voting on my proposal, we're working on a break from 12 to 12.30 and we're finishing the session without a big break. Right? Vote. Please vote. Vote, please. [[11:40:58]] For 212 [[Noise Nodes]] All of it. Colleagues! We're forming a day order. We're not looking at the question of break now. No breaks. We're working, right. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! Once again, my proposal, the question of continuing work without interruption, we're not asking yet. Colleagues, shall we vote? Do you understand? Vote? Vote. We vote in favour of order of consideration. As we look at the agenda, the agenda, we'll look at all the proposals, including "The Fatherland," including "The People's Front," and "The Peter Dustenk Block," and everyone else. We're not looking at it right now. Vote? Shall we vote on the order of the hearing? Let's vote on the order. Please, I'll call it a day later. Now. Julia Volodymyrna! Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Let's work and stop combining different voting motives. Let us now vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of those bills that were handed over to the factions at 9 o'clock this morning. Then, if there is a need, we will discuss other suggestions. Then, if necessary, take a break, but do not combine all the votes. Please, let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u8	My colleagues, once again, I'm stressing that we're not currently discussing inclusion in the agenda, just the sequence of issues, the sequence. Now we're going to approve my proposal to exclude the question of recess, and we're going to move on to the order of the day. And they will all have the word that is spoken. Do you understand what this is about? We are voting on the order of the debate. We're voting on this. Please, please, except for a break offer. One minute, Oleg Beresuk, please. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u9	Honorable MPs and distinguished people of Ukraine, all of this happens only so that today, on the last day possible for a quality process, we do not vote on the Law on Elections in Places. And just so you know, this is what's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u10	Colleagues, on their own. Actually it's not happening to block out, I think there's just a misunderstanding. Please, Sergey Sobolev. Wait a minute. Sergei, Sergei, just a minute. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Please calm down, take your seats, and listen carefully, and then we will make a decision. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u11	It's okay, isn't it? Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of what you have proposed if there are three issues in the agenda signed by all the factions' heads and sent you a letter yesterday. This is the question: in the first letter -- the rent, the tariff, and the second letter, which was signed by all the absolute factions -- this applies directly to the taxation of pensions and the 15 per cent pension waiver. Put it in the agenda, we don't mind, four of them are already in the agenda. We agreed that you were asking this, and we are considering it with these questions today. No breaks, no breaks, we don't care. We're ready for the Elections Act, the IMF laws plus the 4 issues that I've just announced in numbers. What questions? Break it down, it's your right. But yesterday all the factions agreed that it was in the order of the day. Well, you have no right not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u14	Colleagues, look, we're not looking at the agenda right now, I understand the misunderstanding. Now we don't approve the order of the day, I'm just raising the laws that are included in the order of the day. Sequence, right? So I said, look, voting on the order of consideration, this is what we are now voting on, the further formation of the agenda, the further ratification of 0031, the further ratification of IMF laws, election laws and military laws. What did I say? Please, Oleg. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, as proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council, the list of review laws agreed upon by all the leaders of the coalition factions, let us vote. And I'm supporting my colleague, Burresuk, and this is a failure of the agenda with one goal: that we don't adopt a new Law on Local Elections today, so that we don't adopt laws today that will allow for the protection of free war participants, so that we don't vote for laws that raise the standard of living of citizens. So let's vote and get to work, 12 o'clock of the day, and then there's "the horse didn't roll"! Let's get to work, let's get to it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u16	Thank you. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u17	Colleagues, we have a really important agenda today, and we have as far as summer, and to local elections, however, our productivity. And today we have, in order of the day, really a matter of great importance, the last day when we can adopt the Electoral Law in order for elections to take place in proportion. The question of self-help is right, and we absolutely support this, that this is a matter to be considered today. The laws of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the price of $2.5 billion for Ukraine, and this needs to be considered. Military issues are a matter of national security. This compromise, now announced by the Head of the Supreme Council, reached 2 hours when we were not working, all the factions agreed to it, and now in fact Parliament is talking about the people of Ukraine that we don't want to vote for our work in our own words. So the request to vote for this algorithm and not sabotage these last possibilities for the Supreme Council to make very important decisions, including military decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u18	And so, colleagues, once again, I'm stressing that it's now I've made a proposal only on how to deal with matters of order. Period. And then we'll start, we'll set up the agenda, there'll be committee assignments, so they can start doing what's involved, and there's not working on the committees. Then we'll do the ratification. Then we work with the International Monetary Fund. Then we're going to work on the issues that apply to the election and are very important. Today we have to adopt this law, and there is no doubt about it. That's why I'm talking about working all the time for this. But we can do it by the second hour, and we can call it a break. And look at the military laws. Here's basically the whole list of passages, and we're going to keep working on it until it's effective. Is such an order accepted? I told you. I've already said, my last offer, the number of laws has been announced. I'll put this last proposal to the vote. Colleagues, please, this is the order of consideration. So I'm stressing once again the order of the questions that I brought up on the previous proposal. Concentrate, then we'll move on to the agenda of the day session. Is it accepted? Roger that. Please take your seats, we vote. Vote. Vote. [[11:50:37]] For 243 This order is accepted. Thank you, dear colleagues. Next, right now we have a question of order of the day. I'll give you my word when the discussion is over. Colleagues, we have a number of agenda issues to discuss with you. What was distributed in the materials and confirmed by the results of the 2087a Conciliation Council, 2055a, 2245, 2682. Four laws. Now I'm going to put them to a vote, and then I'm going to put in seven more laws that we're going to need to consider in the agenda. Please vote for the formation of the agenda, for the inclusion in the order of the day of these four laws. Vote please, colleagues. Integrating into the agenda. Four laws that are handed down. It's a day's work. [[11:51:48]] For 241 Decision taken. The four laws that you have in your schedule for today are to be incorporated into the agenda. I called the numbers. Please, 2087 - in the area of public procurement, the law, 2055a - "The natural gas market" (as regards the characteristics of agricultural activity in the natural gas market). It's a day-to-day inclusion. 2245 - Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (on Social Services) and 2682 - on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (on Pension Taxation). It is included in the agenda. Now let's move on. We still have laws for inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, we have yet to be included, we have determined how to deal with matters, and we need to include in our agenda a draft Law on Local Elections for consideration and decision-making today. So please consider the draft laws "On Local Elections" 2831, 2831-1, 2831-2, 2831-3 for consideration and decision-making today, the committee conclusions are all there. Is it accepted? We vote on four laws, consideration today, to make decisions. Please vote, please support. Please support this is the local election. [[11:54:05]] For 289 Decision taken. We can work. And seven laws. Sergey Sobolev, a minute, he'll announce laws, laws. Attention, colleagues, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! We ask you to include those bills that were agreed upon at the Conciliation Council with the participation of the trade unions. This is 2835 — a salary. This is 2832 -- tariffs. That's 2682 -- pension taxes. This is 2698 — pensions for workers, which means 15 percent. And that's 2245 -- healing in the children's camps. And the last 2883 is income index. This is the list that has been signed today, and we very much ask that they be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! There are a number of laws that have just been announced, I want to inform you, we've already included in schedule 2245, 2682 already exists. (2883, 2835, 2832) We need to put the agenda into order, send it to the processing committee. 2698 may be ready for consideration. Colleagues, please concentrate, I'm putting the proposal of Sergey Sobolev, who was agreed by the factions of the coalition, to vote for inclusion in the agenda and due process, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yeah? Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:56:24]] For 216 Fellows, once again, the offer of Sergey Soboljeva, the offer of Sergey Soboljeva. Didn't they catch up with her? And this is the formation of the order of the day -- we can set it up. Please, colleagues, please concentrate, including in the agenda and processing accordingly the proposal that Sergi Sobolev made and I commented on. Please vote. For inclusion, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:57:17]] For 290 Yes, it is. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You see, it took two hours for coalition factions to form a common opinion. Colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first question is the ratification, the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union (registration number 0031). There is an offer by the Deputy Minister of Finance to consider this issue in a simplified manner. With a reduced procedure, please proceed with the reduced procedure. I need a report. I need a report. [[11:58:19]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u21	Decision taken. He is invited to the floor by Deputy Finance Minister Shevalov Artem Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u22	Okay, thanks. Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! In order to shorten time, indeed, your view is suggested by an extremely important bill: ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine as Financial Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as Creditor (to receive Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to EUR 1 billion 800 million) -- submitted to the Supreme Council by the President of Ukraine. Three tranches of 600 million euros are projected. The first tranche will be received immediately after the internal procedure for this memorandum has been completed. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u23	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the European Integration Committee Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As you know, during the East Partnership summit in Riga in May this year, it was agreed that the European Union would grant this assistance to Ukraine. And the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, National Bank of Ukraine as Financial Agent of the Borrower and European Union as Creditor (to receive Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union up to EUR 1 billion 800 million). The memorandum and agreement stipulate that this microfinance aid can be granted to Ukraine by three tranches of 600 million euros each with a break of at least three months. The maturity of this loan is no more than 15 years. The interest rate is expected to be 2 percent per year. The first tranche of aid will be awarded after the memorandum and the corresponding loan agreement has become effective, provided Ukraine receives payments under a loan agreement made with the IMF. The second and third tranches will not take place sooner than 3 months after the last tranche has been allocated, and will also be subject to a positive assessment by the European Commission on behalf of the European Union. Progress has been made with regard to the Memorandum's list of modalities for implementing macroeconomic and structural regulation policies. The committee considers it appropriate to ratify the Memorandum and the Credit Agreement, and we ask the Hall to support this decision in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we're writing two for, two for against, please. Please, Kishkar, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u26	Please proceed to the vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u27	If there is no need for discussion, association. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if there's a need, we can't vote, so let's do it. Please, Shurma, from the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd like to tell those gentlemen back there. You. You'd better give your word right now, not expect a response, because someone's going to go to the rostrum anyway. The oculpture you do, the organization of work, that's all. all the people in Ukraine are watching. You've been looking at no bill for two hours! What prevents you from gathering coalition leaders and resolving the issue? I'll ask you a question you won't answer. Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, you have to answer the line. How many drafts have you included in the agenda today and distributed to the MPs? You don't know. How many government bills are there today to consider? You don't know. How many bills proposed by the President that matter to Ukraine? You don't know. You don't do anything for two hours. Why are you paralyzing the work of the Supreme Council? 68 laws are laws that you're considering in coalitions. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u29	Please, by theme! By ratification, speak up on the subject, otherwise I will not give you my word. If you don't talk on the subject, I'll stop your speech!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u30	As far as ratification is concerned, the Opposition Block will vote in favour, because we stand for, like you, the public interest. And as for organization of work, you're paralyzing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u31	Please turn off the microphone. Please turn off the microphone. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we get to the vote on this bill? I therefore put to the vote the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor, and the Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine, number 0031, as a whole. Please support, please vote. [[12:04:40]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Before we go to the IMF issue, there is one question that we need to consider with you, namely. Careful, colleagues. Attention! A registered draft regulation, registration number 2110, from a personnel issue that doesn't need to be included in the next day. Draft Decision on the release of Mr. Tsavajchenko Valentina Aleksandrovitch from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Accordingly, honourable colleagues, there is a positive decision by the committee on this issue, there is an appropriate submission made by the President and an appropriate decision taken. I'm voting now, please prepare. Please gather around the hall. Dear colleagues, registration number of the draft decree. Dear colleagues, take your seats. Take your seats. Come into the hall, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, the 2110th is a draft of the Order. 2110th, Honorary Colleagues, the Supreme Council's Resolution on the Liberation of the complainant from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to release Mr. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready? Let's vote, colleagues. Draft Decree 2110 as a whole, colleagues. In general, we vote. We're voting 2110. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:07:29]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Next. We work all the time, dear colleagues. The draft Law 2956, the draft Law, has been introduced for your consideration. Dear colleagues, national deputies, at work. The Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Petrovich Yatsenuk participates in the plenary session of the Supreme Council. And we, dear friends. Dear colleagues, we continue. Colleagues, one minute. Dear colleagues, once again. Dear colleagues, once again, we continue to work with you. 2956. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property (2956), introduced by the Government of Ukraine. I invite you to take the floor for the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Igorovich Solovay. Please. Dear colleagues, please, Solowy Yuri Igorovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy. 2956.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 3 June 2015, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property (registration No. 2956). The bill proposes not to extend the moratorium imposed by Ukraine's law on the enforcement of assets to repay the debt owed to the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine and its subsidiaries, which provided natural gas on the basis of a licence. According to the legislature, its adoption will help improve the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine by reducing its debt to the company for natural gas consumed. This project is a finalized version of the same government bill 2264 of 28.02.2015, which did not receive the required number of votes in this room on March 18. The bill allows the National Shareholder Company to balance their financial situation, to collect debts that in most cases were created by an artificial, unjustifiably non-returning state company. Since the International Monetary Fund places the financial stability of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine as a key task for Ukraine, the bill is necessary for Ukraine's cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Request to support the government's initiative and accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this issue before, 2956, it's a government initiative. That is why this is so for a decision to be taken earlier in the matter under discussion. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis and a total of 2956. Please, from the Alona Babak faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, this law proposes to lift restrictions on the enforcement of state-owned enterprises' assets for debts to Naftogaz. We now have eight enterprises that will be subject to this law. They have about 5.5 billion dollars of debt before Naftogaza. These are usually assets of these enterprises. These are those who are not privatized according to legislation. This is strategic property. We're actually allowing this law completely all property, even what's not to be privatized, to give Naftogazu the opportunity to pay off debts. We're definitely against it. If we don't see a clear list of assets that might fall under such enforcement. And if we don't see any further actions by the Ukrainian government on government property management to avoid debt to Naftogaz. That is why we will not vote in favour of this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u36	Please, Julia Timoshenko. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u37	I think that all the political forces representing the democratic camp have said a lot about honest privatization, that the more privatization can't go on in shadow mode, that it has to take place on competitive grounds, bring real managers, strong managers and give money to the budget. Now a bill that's been introduced is diametrically opposite and this is the beginning of a new wave of black privatization without any rules. If there are companies that are indebted, put them on fair, transparent privatization and allow them to privatise, not once again, under the carpet, under the shadow equipment. The faction will not vote in favour of this bill because it contradicts the values with which we came to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'd like to go back to the last question that we've considered -- that's the personnel on the release of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. In my opinion, we should have listened to Valentina Nostawichenko's work, given him the opportunity to ask questions, heard the President's draft decision and only then make a decision. It seems to me that the haste with which this decision was taken, once again, confirms the rightful position of the Radical Party faction, which did not vote in favour of the release of Valentin Nadvajchenka from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We believe that in today's conditions when the Ukrainian state is in a state of military aggression by Russia, the issue of the head of the service is an extremely important issue that should be discussed in the walls of the Supreme Council. It's not like we're taking a silent niche, a staff matter in a hurry, and that shows unbalancedness.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the whole country has been discussing this issue for at least a week and there is a submission, there is the position of the Supreme Council, and nothing tragic has happened here. Dear colleagues, is this a 2956 vote? Vote. Come on, colleagues, come into the hall, please, we'll take our seats. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, if this law were about privatization procedures, about transparency, you would be right. What is involved in this law? To ensure that obligations are fulfilled. The whole world works by these rules, if you take the product, count it out, if you don't pay it, it's got to be a financial asset. So if the issue arises by procedure, we can settle it by a separate law. But I'm proposing this bill to support the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. It's from the government. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u43	Honourable deputies of Ukraine, welcome! Mr. Head! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today with a request to uphold laws that have been worked in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two months. We have held dozens of consultations with you, and all of these consultations conclude that the laws that must be adopted for real reforms in the country should receive the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. Let me remind you that you and I are working together with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund for the Financial Stability of the Country and Ukraine is expecting a second tranche from the International Monetary Fund of $1.7 billion. It's just that they don't give money, they only give money in exchange for real reforms. It is these real reforms that have been confirmed by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, the finance ministers of the Great Seven countries, the leaders of the Great Seven countries, who have met literally last week in Germany, and we have no right to retreat half a step back in carrying out effective and powerful reforms in the social, economic and financial sectors. For your consideration, there are eight bills, six of which are ready for Parliament’s consideration. One of the laws that has just been introduced has nothing to do with privatization, it's all lies. And this law has nothing to do with privatization. What is the truth about this bill? Heatcommunergo companies are collecting money from the people of Ukraine, giving them heat, putting out payments, people paid for this payment for the heat that came into the house. The Heatcommunergo company got money from people, so instead of giving this money to Naftogazu for the gas they used to burn citizens' homes, it's going in an unknown direction, including private owners of these companies in their pockets. In that case, if the enterprise received money from the Ukrainian population for residential services and did not give up this money for the natural gas purchased, such an enterprise must be taken from owners and such an enterprise must be bankrupted so that human money does not fall into the pockets of private owners of the Heatcommunergo. Therefore, this law, dear friends, must be voted on. If you don't vote in favour of this law, that means that the Heatcommunnergo, who steals people's heating money, will continue to do so and we won't be able to buy natural gas and calculate in our energy system. So I'm asking members of Parliament to uphold this law and not allow private heatcommunergos to make money on human money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u44	Thank you, colleagues. Please, Sergey Sobolev, then Igor Nosalik, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u45	Sobolev, Zaporozhye. Arseny Petrovich, I'm just going to talk to you about the privatization of Dniproenergo by Mr. Ahmetov, who did this for the debts that were in Dniproenergo before NAC Naftogaz, but in these debts, 80 percent of them were state-owned payments for the subsidies that should have been in Dniproenergo. After that, 1 million dollars was added, as if to the modernization of Dniproenergo, and so Mr. Ahmetov got 78 percent, regardless of the Supreme Court's decision, the Supreme Court of Economics and everything else, you want to legitimize this scheme, we won't give you that. You want to privatize any object, put it out for the competition. They have debts -- clean up those debts that the state owes them. Then, please, there are some facts, such as theft, criminal cases, and punishment of those authorized by the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u46	Igor Nasalik, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u47	Dear friends, this question has three aspects. As far as number one is concerned, NAC Naftogaz is defined as a social company or a national stock company and what needs to be paid by debt is no one's business. Replica to Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, yes, should be calculated, but the Supreme Council needs to change legislation that does not allow heat to be turned off and place local self-government in one row. And the third is estimated to be transit receipts for local self - control from the second year. And a percent of these concessions, which come from budgetary organizations and cities, are taken by NAC Naftogaz 100%, to take away nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u48	Colleagues, I understand he's not ready to vote right now. I then suggest that he be transferred, consulted today, and then perhaps we will return to him. Is there no objection? Yeah, it's a deal. All, then, is the proposal to stop its consideration. Let us consult with all factions, MPs, and continue to be identified. Is it accepted? Roger that. Is it a signal? Colleagues, let's make a signal vote so we don't have what I am. Please, we will return to him today as discussed, but we will now agree, perhaps, on certain positions there to make things happen. Colleagues, please take your seats. I'll put it to a vote, a vote of 2956, the one we've just discussed. Please vote. Please vote 2956, please vote. It's a signal vote, colleagues, a signal. [[12:23:47]] For 172 I see. Dear colleagues, we will return to this bill. Second reading, colleagues: 2742 is also from the package, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the construction of the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is prepared for second reading. I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the committee of profile, Michael Dovbenko. Please, 2742.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At the June 4 committee meeting, which was concluded on June 5, 2015, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the institution-building of the National Bank of Ukraine (registration - 2742) was considered by the committee for second reading. The project is designed to create legal bases and conditions for the implementation by the National Bank of Ukraine of its constitutional tasks as the central bank of the State, which has a significant impact on the financial stability of the State, as well as with the aim of introducing separate provisions of the National Bank of Ukraine Act in accordance with European practice and the commitments made by the Ukrainian side to the International Monetary Fund. The committee was preparing a draft for the second reading in a very narrow term, and it addressed 156 proposals from the National Deputies: Vojcikhovsky, Polyakova, Romanyuka, Krulka, Lensky, Rizanenka, Doubbenko, Lavenka, Stotnik, Levchenka, Fishing, members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, of which 75 were included, including in part, editorially and in fact, 81 were rejected. Even after the bill was drafted, there was a technical error: in article 51, instead of the term "November 15" the term "November 1" remained. So under the stenogram, I'm going to ask you to make some changes and substitute the number "1" into "15." On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and in general. I would also like to request that the Chief Legal Authority, together with the Committee, be instructed after the adoption of the law as a whole to bring appropriate technical and legal remedies to the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take a quick walk on the amendments, because I can see that they are willing to stand up for their amendments. Under the Rules, I will call the author. If he insists, he will emphasize it. So the first amendment. Lavrick. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u51	Oleg. Please, Oleg Lavrick. Turn on the microphone, please, Oleg Lavrick. Turn it on?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We really did consider 156 amendments on the committee. But most of the amendments that were made, the Self-Help faction accepts and agrees. However, there are four adjustments that we will insist on and that we now propose to support the hall. In particular, it is the first amendment to exclude article 67 of the Code of Lords. In fact, this article deprives a person of the right to adequate protection of his legal rights and interests, which is contrary to constitutional principles, since the Code forbids a lawsuit by halting the decisions of the National Bank and by setting up a national bank ban. The Self-Help faction will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u53	Ten seconds, please. Ten seconds! Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u54	The Self-Help faction will vote in favour of this law as a whole only in case of maintenance of Amendment 1, Number 3 and Number 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u55	Thank you, you. So please prepare for the vote. Come into the hall. Amendment number 1 shall be put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please determine by vote. Please vote. [[12:29:16]] For-183 The decision is not made. Perhaps you will be able to explain to the committee about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u56	Yes, we have discussed this amendment in quite detail, and we believe that the norm already exists in the Banking and Banking Act and is essentially in the already mentioned codes. The need for detail is defined by the ambiguous position of the courts that violate, in general, the primary processes of these codes. And so we'd like the committee's position to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Now, 3rd Amendment, Oleg Lavric, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u58	Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u59	Please, Olena Sotnik. Turn on the Olene Captain microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Amendment number three, which concerns almost the same question, but the Civil Procedure Code, I'll just explain. With the amendment we return the opportunity for people to guarantee their legal right in the event that a decision is taken to secure a lawsuit, it is a constitutional norm. And if we rule it out of the current Civil Procedure Code, we break the laws, we break the Constitution. So I ask very carefully, colleagues, please, by coalition, support Amendment 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u62	The argument was the same on the committee. And that's why the decision doesn't support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u63	Thank you. So I'm betting on the vote. Please prepare for the vote. And the vote is amended as number three. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please. [[12:31:22]] For-152. The decision is not taken. 5 revisions. Again, Oleg Lavrick, and please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u64	My colleagues, we still insist that we cannot make unconstitutional decisions. We can't stop the courts from canceling, suspending the actions, the rulings of the National Bank of Ukraine. I appeal to all factions of Parliament to support Amendment 5. I would stress that if these amendments were not accepted by the Self-Help faction, they would not support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Please take your position from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u66	Colleagues, among the arguments that were also discussed in the committee, why not support the amendment, were called that there was a case of abuse of the right to challenge and to stop the decision of the National Bank of Ukraine without justification. And other arguments that have already been said here. That's why the committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u67	Thank you. The motion to support Amendment 5 is therefore put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment please determine how to vote. Please vote. [[12:33:00]] For-152. The decision is not taken. Amendment 11. Polacks — Is It Persisting? No, it doesn't. Is he insisting? Yeah? He insists. Please turn on Maxim Polyakov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon! In the first part, the word "costorium" is replaced by the word "costal expenses." Please consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u69	Thank you. Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u70	Colleagues, the committee discussed several ways in which this position could be formulated. So after a long discussion, they left the term "the cost of administrative expenses." That's why they rejected the amendment of deputy Polakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u71	So we've heard the opinions of the parties and we're voting on Amendment 11. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[12:34:19]] For-164 The decision is not taken. 12th Amendment, Maxime Polyakov. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, in article 5 of paragraph 4 of the bill, paragraph 4 of the bill is proposed to exclude amendments to article 5 of the laws on NBA, leaving a valid version.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u74	It was left after the discussion, as I said, "the cost of administrative expenses." That's why it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Puts the vote to the vote. Whoever supports Amendment 12, please determine by vote. Please vote. [[12:35:17]] For-167 The decision is not taken. The 13th amendment, again, is that of Lavric and Helen Sotnik. Are you insisting? Don't insist. At 8:00, please turn on the microphone. One minute, Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u76	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, the 8th amendment of Coll. Romanyuk predicts that the publication of acts by the National Bank may take place, not in writing, but in the form of a website. We've both consulted with our colleague Romanyuk, and with our colleagues in the profile committee, we can't support this amendment in any way, because this will give us a publicity regime that we can't then verify when we've made it and so forth. So we have a request, either to submit it for confirmation and rejection, or to make it available in the next edition, that the official edition of the National Bank of Ukraine is a printed edition of the National Bank registered in accordance with the proper introduction of legal regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u78	Colleagues, this amendment by Romaniuk's deputy is supported on the committee, and the clarification of the Halasyuk deputy is also desirable. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u79	Thank you. According to the Rules of Urgency, the amendment deals with confirmation, clarification. So in this case, this is how we vote. Who supports the clarification of the amendment that has just been made by Deputy Halasyuk, please vote and support. Please determine by vote. Vote, please. [[12:37:23]] For 210 The decision is not made. But there's potential, it feels. So I ask the National Deputies to enter the room in the towers and prepare for the vote so that we can see the objective support of the hall of this clarification. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. So we're in the Chamber, I'll rephrase the proposal. Paragraph 8 shall be put to the vote. Amendment No. 8, deals with the vote of clarification that Deputy Halasyuk gave in his speech. In this case, there's no need to vote for the return, we can put it to the vote again. Therefore, please prepare for the vote, the proposal to clarify Amendment 8 of the Halasyuk MP is put to the vote. Please support, please vote, vote. [[12:38:58]] For 248 Decision taken. Let's move on to the amendments that were rejected. 16th National MP Lavric. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 18th, Polyakov. Is it insisting? He insists. Turn on Polakov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues. Paragraph 7 of paragraph 9, paragraph 4 of the bill reads: "Approving annually, by 15 September of this year, the revenue and expenditure of the National Bank for the following year and submitting to the President of Ukraine the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u82	The committee decided to leave the edition adopted in the first reading, which was in the first reading, because the investment term refers to the capital investments of the National Bank of Ukraine in its activities and development, so it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u83	Thank you. The vote is amended by the 19th Polish author. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:40:16]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have a call to the national MPs: this is a huge number of amendments, this is just one of the laws, and if we go indefinitely, we will not come to the election laws today. So I have a request, every MP has a right and will stand up for his position, but I ask you to focus on those amendments that are really crucial and important to this bill, because we are not going to get to the Elections Act today. Sorry about that. And we move on to the next amendment of the 20th, National Deputy Vojciekhovska. Is it insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u84	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u85	Don't insist. Next amendment 22. Doubenko is a national MP. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 27th. Polakov. 23rd. Please. And Sobole Sergey, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u86	Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm talking to the government, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. Regrettably, in Amendment 23, a change in the date by which the National Bank is required to make a forecast would be impossible to budget. Earlier on the first reading, the forecast date was until June 15. This amendment changes the application until 15 November. How will the government and Minfin, on the basis of what, shape the projections? I have a proposal to leave the first reading, it corresponds to the law on budget and budget resolutions, and leave it as it is. So I'm asking for confirmation and not to vote for a change of date, or Minfin and the government will never get a forecast of Nazbank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u87	Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u88	Fellows, you've seen that in fact there are a lot of amendments that have been rejected in the committee. Not because they're wrong, there were two conceptual things about how to form the institutional capacity of the central bank of the state. And so when one model was chosen, this model was considered and other proposals were considered accordingly. I want to say that we've come out of the idea that the National Bank can't plan its profits because the National Bank's philosophy has changed. And that's why we think it's worth leaving on November 15th, as the committee voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u89	Thank you. But according to the Rules, a national MP may insist that the amendments be approved. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The vote on amendment 23, which has been taken into account by the committee, is confirmed. Therefore, who supports the approval of this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[12:43:41]] For 180. The decision is not taken. 27th, Polyakov, does he insist? No, it doesn't. 29th, Polyakov, does he insist? No, it's not. 30th, Ivan Krulko, does he insist? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u90	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I suggest you look carefully at the three amendments: 30th, 38th and 65th. These are my amendments to all of them regarding what comes up as a serious question, should the National Bank form another additional body that will be financed by taxpayers' money? It's about an audit committee. The National Bank has an internal audit unit, and it is this unit that is auditing the National Bank. So I propose a 30th, 38th and 65th amendment to the Audit Committee to support and thus remove this organ from the National Bank Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u91	Thank you. But we're looking at revisions in sequence. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u92	Colleagues, this amendment has been rejected in connection with the fact that we have taken into account the agreed position of the committee regarding the approvals of the Board of the National Bank. Since the status of the National Bank Board has changed, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u93	Thank you. So there's an amendment to the 30th, People's Deputy Krulka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, please specify. [[12:45:34]] For 133 The decision is not made. The 32nd Amendment, Wojciechowski, does it insist? No, it doesn't. 34th, Polyakov? Don't insist. 36th, Polyakov? Don't insist. 37th, Polyakov? Don't insist. 38th, Krulko Ivan. Don't insist. 41st, Polyakov. Don't insist. 42nd, Polyakov. Don't insist. 44th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 45th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 53rd, Polyakov. Don't insist. 55th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 56th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 57th, Rizanenko. Is it insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u94	The amendment proposes to remedy the conflict of interest. The legislation provides that the council – compensation will be paid to the higher body. But the current rules, according to the Nazbank version, will determine the government, that is, the body that is subordinated to the council. With this amendment, it was proposed that this conflict of interest be eliminated so that the size of the compensation could be confirmed by the Supreme Council in its position. I propose to support this amendment to avoid conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u95	Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u96	Colleagues, since the committee agreed to Amendment 21, we had to reject this amendment by Mr. Rizanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u97	Thus, the amendment of the 57 people’s representative of Rizanenka is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please be determined. [[12:47:32]] For-152. The decision is not taken. 58th Amendment, Polakov. Don't insist. 59th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 61st, Polyakov. Don't insist. 62nd, Lavrick. Don't insist. 63rd, Polyakov. Don't insist. 64th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 65th, Krulko. Don't insist. 67th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 68th, Lavrick. Don't insist. 70th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 72nd, Rizanenko. Don't insist. 73rd, Polyakov. Don't insist. 74th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 76th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 77th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 83rd, Ivan Krulko. Don't insist. 85th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 86th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 87th, Lavrick and Sotnik. Don't insist. 88th, Lensky. Don't insist. 89th, Polyakov. It doesn't matter. The '90s, Polyakov. Don't insist. 91st, Lavrick. Don't insist. 93rd, Vojciekhovska. Don't insist. 94th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 97th, Vojciekhovska. Don't insist. 97th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 100th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 105th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 103rd, I'm sorry. 103 revisions. Who insists? Yes, 103 revisions. Who's the author? Fishing. That's how she's accounted for! Well, please, give me the Fisherman. Can I have a moment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, the 103rd amendment is essentially taken into account. It predicts that the National Bank of the Supreme Council is being eliminated, and instead of accountability, interaction is being established. What interaction is, we can't understand. We live in the Parliamentary-President Republic, the National Bank is to be accountable to the Supreme Council. So we ask our colleagues to vote on this amendment, to take it fully into account, and to leave an important editorial on the accountability of the National Bank of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the President of Ukraine. This position is agreed upon, supported by the government, supported by the Prime Minister and supported by other factions of the coalition. So please put 103 amendments to the Fisheries and support, take full account of it, and leave a valid version of article 51 on the accountability of the National Bank of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u99	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u100	The committee supports, my friends. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u101	Dear company, please! And the committee supports this amendment, and the government, and all the factions of the coalition. So I ask you to come into the hall so that we can vote it productively and effectively. Please, whoever's in the towers, come into the hall. And there is an amendment to the 103rd National Fisherman's vote to take full account of it. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support. Vote. [[12:51:33]] For 234 Thank you. The proposal is supported. Let's move on. 118th, Oleg Lavrick and Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 119th, Polyakov. Don't insist. 120th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 121st. Lavrick, Sotnik. Don't insist. 122nd doesn't insist. 123rd. Dowbenko. Don't insist. 124th. Lavrick, Sotnik. Don't insist. 125th. Vojciekhovsky. Don't insist. 129th. Lavrick, Sotnik. Nope. They insist. Please turn on Mr. Oleg's microphone. Oleg Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Amendment 129 proposes to exclude such a provision that "the heads of the National Bank, its deputies, members of the National Bank's government and other officials of the National Bank are prohibited from receiving loans from other credit institutions except the National Bank." What does that mean? That means the workers. Members of the government of the National Bank, who are officials and oversee the activities of commercial banks, will be able to obtain credit in those commercial banks, which we consider to be possible. Consider it official. a bribe from an official. Therefore, the employees of the National Bank have the opportunity to obtain loans from the National Bank. It is proposed to support Amendment 129. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u104	Colleagues! After a lengthy discussion, three arguments prevailed. First. The National Bank of Ukraine has cancelled all employee benefits, taking into account the credit payments that were made at the expense of the funds that could be credited to the budget. Second argument. Credits in other banking institutions will be received on terms of the public character of contracts, not in individual order. And the third. This amendment was not supported by the officials of the National Bank of Ukraine to receive aid, from subsidiary agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u105	Thank you. So, please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. The vote is amended as follows: 129 National Deputies Lavrik and Sotnik. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please. [[12:54:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Let's move on. 130, John Krulko insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u106	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I support my colleague Lavrik. And this is actually my amendment that applies to the same object. You can't let those workers who work in Nazbank directly influence it. Since banks get a refund very often from the National Bank, they can't get money in the form of loans from other financial institutions other than the National Bank, it's very important. And that is exactly what the article prohibits. I ask that we leave that edition of the National Bank Act, which is currently in force today, which imposes a ban on obtaining credit from other financial institutions other than the National Bank. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u107	Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u108	Colleagues, argument. First, the substance of the amendment and the previous one. The committee's argument is the same, therefore it is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u109	Thank you. Thus, the honourable colleagues are voting on amendment 130, the national deputy Krulka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[12:56:00]] For 148 The decision is not taken. 132nd Rizanenko doesn't insist. 133rd, Lavrick, Captain, don't insist. 138th, Polyakov Maxim, doesn't insist. 139th, Polyakov, does not insist. 142th, Lewchenko, insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u110	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes to set up an audit committee at the NBA, which will be responsible for reliability and support. A system of internal control, and we've already talked about it. In fact, it's an internal system that can't test itself, it's understandable things. But unfortunately, the bill also, by amending articles 9 and 70 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, suggests that the subject of the Nazbank activity be substantially restricted by an independent audit firm. I think that the testing of Nazbank, in fact, like any other structure, is a much better way to control a foreign organization than to test internal structures, such as an audit committee. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable to limit the subject to an independent external auditorium. My amendment is specifically aimed at removing this restriction in order to leave the law in force, where such restrictions on independent firms are not imposed. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u111	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u112	My colleagues, after a lengthy discussion on this amendment, we thought that there was a fairly rational grain, but given that the position of the committee to extend the powers of the Board of the National Bank in the direction of control and audit, we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Thus, the amendment of the 142 People’s Deputies of Lechchenk is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please vote. [[12:58:10]] For-136 The decision is not taken. The next 143 amendments, Krulko, do not insist. 144th, Vojciekhovska. Don't insist. 145th, Krulko. Don't insist. 147th, Krulko. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 147th Krulko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u114	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, look what's being disguised under this, it would seem to be such a small norm in the law. We have adopted in the Constitution the rule that the Court of Auditors controls the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. You and I have not been able to make appropriate changes to the Court of Auditors Act, and now, in the first reading of this law, it is proposed that the Court of Auditors be unable to control the National Bank's incomes, that is, the proceeds are proposed to be eliminated. I ask that we vote the amendment and that we restore the right of the Court of Auditors to exercise control over the revenues and expenses of the National Bank. Please support this important amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u116	Colleagues, after discussion, came to the conclusion that this amendment was related to the corrosive. And at the very beginning of our consideration of this bill's committee, a general edition was adopted as amended by Amendment 10. That's why we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u117	Thank you. Positions were expressed. A vote is taken on amendment 147 of the Krulka People's Deputy. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, we're on our way. [[13:00:06]] For-141 The decision is not made. The 146th insists that MP Ivan Krulko be confirmed. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u118	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Now look what they did by supporting 146 amendments. In general, the Court of Auditors will now have the opportunity not only to control expenses but also to control expenses. only part of the expenses, administrative expenses. So I think that if we're going to go to the fact that now the National Court of Auditors doesn't have the ability to control Natzbank's income, then at least it has to control all of Nazbank's expenses. So I'm asking you to make 146 amendments for confirmation, not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u119	Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u120	Colleagues, I'd like everyone to hear it. Friends, if we have adopted the philosophy that we are moving under the Association Agreement with the European Union, it is a completely different status now of the central bank of Ukraine. And we said, well, there's going to be other incomes and expenses. And so after the discussion, it came to mind, the cost of administrative spending, and it's all going to be fixed there. That's why your previous ones were rejected, and they came together on the term "Costorship of Administrative Expenditures." So if you insist, I'm asking everyone to support 146 pros. Because then we break the whole philosophy of the bill. You don't have to be offended. Chosen. The concept was chosen, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u121	Thus, honourable colleagues, the chairman of the committee, stresses the extraordinary importance of this vote. So I ask you very much to come into the hall of those who have gone out into the towers and prepare for the vote. Please, dear colleagues, who are in the towers, I very much ask you to come in and take places for an important vote. By the way, we're finishing the job now, and we're going to be voting in the second reading and in general. So please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Thus, the vote is based on the amendment of 146 national deputies Doubenko for confirmation, and the committee asks for a vote in favour of the amendment. Please vote and please support. [[13:02:46]] For-200 You don't make decisions, but you haven't made them yet. I am very grateful to invite my fellow MPs to the hall. I ask very much once again who is still in the towers to enter the voting room. Can we put it to a vote now? Have MPs come up yet that were gone? Once again, the committee head calls for a vote in favour of the amendment, the committee supports it, the committee head wants to be supported, this amendment is necessary for a productive vote to take place. Once again, please, 30 seconds head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u122	Colleagues, this amendment is conceptual, it's agreed in a discussion with the National Bank, Minfin, the government, with everyone else. Why? How can we test it? The point is, what is it that we've formulated, why test it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u123	Thank you for the addition. So the position is clear. The vote is based on the amendment of 146 People’s Deputies of Doubenk for confirmation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:04:23]] For 215 Is there anyone who can't make it? Society, attention, attention. Colleagues, so that we're not formalists, if the committee head says that it's conceptual to the philosophy of the law, I'm going to put it again, I'm going to put it again, I've put the laws that the Fatherland has proposed seven times, and so I'm going to put this amendment now, and if it doesn't go through this time, we're going to move on. So I'm asking you to determine now by voting, I'm putting Doubenko's 146th amendment to support it, and whoever supports it, I'm asking you to vote on it for the last vote, please, please vote, please support. [[13:05:26]] For 227 Thank you. 127 for. Correction confirmed. 148th. People’s deputies, Lavrick and Sotnik, do not insist. 152nd Doubenko doesn't insist. 153rd, Doubenko doesn't insist. 154th, Polekov doesn't insist. 155th National Deputy Doubenko does not insist. And so we were able to heroically go through all the amendments that were made, and now we can vote on the draft law in second reading and in general. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the office and prepare for the vote. There will now be a general vote in favour of the bill. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Come on in. So all the factions are ready? Yeah, we're in the hall. Okay. The draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the institution-building of the National Bank of Ukraine No. 2742 is put to the vote. And at the suggestion of the committee, we vote in the second reading and in general. Please support, we vote. [[13:07:11]] For 232 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft agenda of 2743 – the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to build the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. To the report, I invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u124	The Honourable Chairman of the People’s Parliament, the Supreme Council of May 22, adopted Bill 2743 as a basis. At the request of the head of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, the Committee on Budget Affairs will expedite the drafting of the bill. And we have, on the basis of two proposals for the exclusion of paragraphs 1 and 2, taken into account by the Supreme Council in adopting the bill as a basis. As a result of processing such proposals with the participation of Nazbank’s representatives, only one proposal was rejected by the Minfin Committee. There was a heated discussion on the risks of underexpenditure from Nazbank in the implementation of article 45 of the Code of Budgets. However, the committee took a decision taking into account the requirements of the memorandum of understanding on cooperation with the IMF. In view of the fact that we have adopted, as a whole, Bill 2742 of the Committee on Budget Issues adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council bill 2743 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law, taking into account the supported proposals in the proposed final edition of the committee's comparative table to the bill. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u125	Thank you very much. So not a lot of amendments have been made in this bill, and only one of them has been rejected -- this is the amendment of the national MP John Krulk, and so I'm asking him to turn on the microphone for the performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u126	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! Listen very carefully to what this amendment was about, and we filed it with our colleague Krivenko from Self-Help. This amendment does not apply to the provisions of the Budget Code that do not apply to the Budget Code. The words after confirmation of the external audit and approval by the Council of the Nazbank of Annual Financial Reporting and the formation of the Nazbank Reserves are completely superfluous. Therefore, my amendment refers to the drafting of this article, ours from Krivenko, in the following wording, that part of the proceeds to the distribution of the National Bank are determined and counted into the state budget in order and size defined by the Ukrainian National Bank Act. We've already taken this into account in the National Bank Act, so let's not include in the Budget Code what is not subject to the regulation of the Budget Code. Please support room number 5 and the law can be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u127	Thank you, Constantine Eugeneovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u128	The committee decided to leave it to the committee. And that's why I'm asking you to identify the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u129	So what is the committee's recommendation to support or reject the amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u130	Committee decision: leave the committee's response. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u131	Overruled. Thank you. So we heard this amendment about the position of both the committee and the deputy. And I can put it to a vote. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 5th National Deputy Krulka, who was rejected by the committee, but he insists on voting. Whoever supports Amendment 5 of People's Deputy Krulka, please vote. [[13:11:45]] For-152. The decision is not taken. But it was the only amendment to the bill, and that's why we can put it on the headship as a whole. I ask the honourable fellow MPs to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues in the towers are urged to enter the hall to take up jobs. All factions in place, we can vote. Yeah? Thus, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Construction of the Institutional Capability of the National Bank of Ukraine (number 2743) in the second reading and in general applies to the vote. Please support, please vote. Vote. [[13:12:53]] For 234 Decision taken. So we've adopted two bills of importance for our cooperation with the IMF that were discussed in the second reading. Now we're going to go to those laws that we're looking at in the first reading, but they're also listed in the IMF requirements. The first is the draft National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities (2966, 2966-1 and 2966-2). And I invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Demchisin Vladimir Vasilovich. Please. I'm sorry, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the consideration of the short-term issue. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. [[13:14:07]] For 168 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to invite you to consider the draft National Regulatory Act in the field of energy and utilities. After 20 years of the organization's operation, we finally drafted a law that would form a legal basis, a legal basis for its functioning, in which we determined its mandate, formed financing principles, formed the responsibility of the body and accountability, including the Supreme Council. The law is prepared jointly by the Ministry and other ministries, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the PEC Committee. The Energy Society has adopted a very active role in the drafting of this law. This law fully corresponds to the third energy package, which is very important in light of what we've literally recently, which is you, supported the Law on the Gas Market. At present, the Ministry is also working together with the Energy Community to draft the Law on the Functioning of the Energy Market. These are two new laws that should fully reform gas and electricity markets, liberalize them, enable them to form competitive conditions for all entities in this market. The very important things that are reflected in this law are the following things. It's an independent selection of board members. At the moment, there are seven. It's suggested to leave 7, one of which is going to be the head. The approval of all members of the commission will be carried out by the President. The commission that will conduct the selection for approval will be collegiately formed, with five members: two represented by the President, two from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u133	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u134	And the third group is a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers who will act on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Please welcome to the report Ukraine’s national deputy Martovitchki Artur Volodymyrovich. Please. Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! The Kabmin draft law on the National Commission is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, defining the status of the commission as "the permanently active, independent national college body under the control of the President". On the basis of the draft, the commission will be a body that will be neither legislative nor judicial, but will be given competence in the executive sphere, in violation of article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine. GNEW, in his negative conclusion, also emphasizes that the governmental collegiate bodies of their nature are executive authorities and should therefore not be separated. It also points to a large number of technical and legal shortcomings, a well-founded proposal for adoption of the bill, and asks that it be returned to work. Project 2966 does not contain sufficient requirements for the necessary professional level of members of the Commission, foresees standards that are incompatible with European energy market regulation standards, does not ensure the necessary degree of independence of the regulator and transparency of its activities, does not correspond to European approaches to the status of public regulators. The draft alternative bill, number 2966-1, corrects the problematic issues of the government draft law, aims at eliminating the existing legal commission legislation, defines the NCRECR as a central executive body with a special status, which is controlled by the Cabinet, formed as a college body and eliminated. The appointment of members of the commission shall be based on an open competition and shall be made in a balanced manner with the participation of representatives of the Energy Society Secretariat and representatives of the public to ensure the objectivity, independence and transparency of the election of members of the commission. It lays down requirements for potential members of the commission to provide the necessary professional level. So I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u137	Ten seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore ask you to support the alternative bill, number 2966-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u139	Please, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. After all the reporters and the chairman of the committee will be 2 for, 2 for, 2 against, society. There's three co-reporters, then there's going to be a committee head, and then there's going to be two for, two against. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u140	Lewchenko, Freedom VO, 223 District of Kiev. Dear Ukrainian people! People's deputies! Your attention is given to the draft of the National Commission Act, which implements state regulation in the areas of energy and utilities, registration number 2966-2. The bill is designed to create an independent, active state regulator to ensure the implementation of a comprehensive strategy for the effective functioning of Ukraine's energy and utilities. The purpose of the Commission’s work is to achieve a balance between the economic interests of consumers, energy markets and the state. But my bill on consumer rights pays particular attention, and this is very important in the context of today's monopolization of the market and the oligarchic system of the economy. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the national MPs of Martovitch, introduced draft laws similar to those of the Supreme Council. However, these bills do not fully reflect the recommendations of an energy cooperative on the concept of State regulator independence through a special procedure for its formation, activity, decision-making and clear determination of the authority’s authority. In particular, unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers bill suggests essentially that a commission be handed over to elect members of the commission, a competitive commission to submit to the President. It will be one-personally controlled by the President and in fact the President will decide who to appoint. The bill I submitted is marked. The National Commission, which regulates energy and public services, is an independent and permanent college body that will supervise and regulate energy and public services. The bill stipulates that the commission will consist of nine members, three of whom will be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, there is a balance in the formation of the composition of the commission, which in turn ensures that it makes informed and impartial decisions. Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u141	10 seconds, just like everyone else, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u142	Alternative Bills show a marked balance. The Kabmin project, as already said, takes the President’s side and the Martovitchki People’s Deputy’s Project towards the Cabinet of Ministers, which will not ensure objectivity and impartiality in making decisions by the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u143	Mr. Yuri, I gave the two previous reporters 10 seconds, although they both wanted to talk a lot longer. So there must be a principle of justice. Thank you. Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the June 3rd Committee discussed three bills on National Regulatory 2996, 2966-1, the first one on the government, the second on the Martovitchki and 2966-2 on the authorship of Deputy Levchenka. On the basis of the recommendation of Government Bill 2966. But given the very interesting drafts, some points 66-1 and 66-2, the committee will work while preparing for the second reading of the rights to put them into the body of the law that we will adopt. Dear colleagues, my position is clear that it should be accepted as a basis for continuing to work on this law. We have to adopt the law. Today, in one person, the President, by his decree, takes a decision on each member of the regulator. The law gives the right to create, in particular, this position embodied in all laws, the creation of a nomination commission that will make the selection of the members of the NCRE. There are two points of discussion. First. What a commission there must be. And there are different approaches by quantity and by quality. Especially who she represents more, either the Supreme Council or the President or the Cabinet of Ministers. There are proposals in Martovicki's law, this is a representation of the European Energy Society. And the second question is when the rotation of the members of the NCRE begins. But these standards can be adjusted to the second reading. Therefore, the position of the committee and the request to adopt Bill 2966 as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u145	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign in for two, two against. Please log in. Yuri Mikolaiovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u146	Please pass the word to Dmitri Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u147	Dmitri Kolesnikov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u148	I'll give my cousin a lift.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u149	Wheelchairs, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u150	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering in principle three laws that are relatively correlated. But notice, if you have read these laws, we are creating an executive body that claims to be self-sacrifice. These laws introduce a new tax, so-called "regulatory benefits", 15 percent of the income. There's no indication of what kind of income. This is a new tax, and this is the introduction of other legislation. Wages in this regulation are regulated and established by the Commission. That is, they will pay their own wages. Only electricity, not heat, not gas, is the subject of regulation, although these are also energy resources. The number of inspections of this controller is not regulated by anything, i.e. each undertaking can verify 365 days a year. And most important, distinguished colleagues, and I would like to draw your attention to that. The Head of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine usurp, I stress, usurp power in this commission, because they also apply to the competition commission and then approve the composition of the commission itself. Dear colleagues, I believe that these laws cannot be enacted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u151	Anyway, Self-help. He's handing it over to Vojciekhovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I want literally a second of your attention. And what I'm saying is, let's start by saying, what about our vision of the regulator? Where do we see it, and how do we see it? We see it in the system, in the association of independent energy regulators, including Europe's societies. Thus, there are clear requirements for the controller and his independence. The bill's proposed appropriate skeleton for independence, it just flattens this whole principle. So it's not acceptable. But there is a solution. There are many issues that are unfortunately not addressed in this bill, namely, the proposal. Ah, Vojciekhovsky? Yes, I was wrongly written. Can I fix it, please? Yeah, well, that's great. In any case, we didn't come here to criticize, we came here to propose, in fact there's a desire to join and there's a willingness to attach independent regulators from the European Union, from the United States, from Canada to develop a full document, a document that will ensure the work of a regulator who will be primarily interested in ensuring the independence of the functioning of the entire market in ensuring consumers' rights. And so we as consumers have the opportunity to look at the methodology used by the regulator in both tariffs and prices. Because I'm sorry, we even have a full mix of basic definition, we call gas tariffs, even though we have gas prices, we have the Gas Market Act, we have transportation tariffs, and we have mixed everything up. So let's develop a full, quality bill that will really ensure the independence of the regulator, that consumers and their interests will be protected, where everyone will be in equal conditions, and finally we, especially in energy, will have competitive conditions. And last but not least, it's very strange that laws that regulate the regulator in the field of energy and utilities have only been passed by an energy committee. Our colleagues on another committee were not even able to give their views. So we think and we recommend that we go back to work, we're ready to prepare and work with the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the European Union, and with other experts on the development of a full document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u153	Thank you. Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich. The Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u154	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Donetsk. I fully support my self-help colleague, Victoria Vojcitsky, and I can appeal to our coalition colleagues that "Fatherland" has always supported very difficult decisions and voted in favour of unpopular decisions, taking responsibility for our coalition affairs. But it's in this bill that we can't take responsibility for such a non-quality, non-professionally prepared bill. When he was on the committee, we even had claims to the Ministry of Justice for the grammatical and stylistic errors in the government bill. Acceptance procedure, membership selection procedure is politicized. The competition commission consists of only politicians, and, for example, there is a procedure in alternative bills where our colleagues from European societies who have participated in the drafting of the gas market bill and the public can also grant their members the right. I don't know why the minister said he agreed with our European colleagues. Because I have such a comment from them that there are rules that directly contradict the Law on the Market in Gas and the arrangements for the structure of decisions reached with all the international partners of Ukraine. Positions repeatedly taken by representatives of the Energy Society Secretariat. Of course, we could, on many occasions with the disgust of voting in the first reading, make a working group. But that's the kind of legislation that needs to be done in quality so that there's no claim to this regulator that will set tariff prices, regulate, and the big market itself will regulate energy. So our proposal, as well as a colleague from Self-Help, to return to work, to create a working group, we're ready by committee to work all summer, without holidays, and to make a quality bill that will be supported by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u155	Thank you. Now one minute Yuri Lewchenko and then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u156	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I've been happy to hear from most of the speakers that they're criticizing mostly the bill itself, the government's version. So I would like to stress the positive effects of my bill, but I would like to support it if you don't support the government bill. First of all, the key question of the commission is, Who appoints the people on the committee? Who Appoints Leadership? Who appoints these workers? And here our project is proposing a balanced approach, where there will be no distortion of either the President's side or the Kabmen's side, but a balanced approach that can ensure a normal filling of the board's personnel. So that there are no oligaric influences. And that's why our bill is better than two alternative government bills, in particular. Also from a government project where the commission’s mandate and the criteria for selecting its members are very blurry and highly appreciable, and so subjective, we have everything clearly defined, clearly, without ambiguous treatments. So please support our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, from the rostrum and we'll finish the discussion. People's deputies, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction will not vote in favour of this law. This law is not foreordained; it does not conform to the requirements of the Constitution and the law in force. This law allows us to monopolize one of the branches of power of energy plants, so we will not vote for it. Taking advantage of the opportunity that today's Energy Minister Demchishin is present in the hall, I say right in front of Mr. Demchischin's eyes that the ministry he heads is the seedling of corruption. The energy minister's activity is corrupt. I demand that the Attorney General violate criminal conduct on the fact that he has made contracts with Russia for the supply of electricity, coal from Russia to Ukraine. My contention is that Demchi's policy is to destroy its own coal sector, its energy sector. I demand the President, the Supreme and the Government, the resignation of the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u159	Thank you. So we're going to finish the discussion, please, a minute, a minute, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! The "will of the people" faction will not vote in favour of these bills, because the government bill is an attempt to redistribute, again, the corrupt redistribution of funds in favour of the Ministry's control. The bill presented by our colleague Martovici is an attempt to confuse the situation and leave because there are flows that are not being distributed so far, and not properly and not fair. And to our colleague Levchenko, thank you so much for trying to, well, try to make a quality bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor. So we finished the discussion. We have three bills. Committee position: accept as base 2966. And that's why we're starting our vote. I ask my fellow national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we begin the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u162	Three more. Thus, the draft National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities (number 2966), is put to the vote as a basis. Please, on the ground. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:36:57]] For-137 The decision is not taken. I now place the same motion on the vote: to adopt the draft National Commission Act (2966-1). Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:37:32]] For-46 Thank you. The solution. I'm sorry, I have to take a look at the vote. 200 for, right? The decision is not taken. And now I'm voting 2966-2. Please be careful. The draft National Commission Act (2966-2) is put to the vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:38:20]] For-52 52 is "for", you don't make a decision. Thus, we were unable to accept any of the laws. There is yet another suggestion that this bill, which has received the most support, should be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. Does it make any sense?? Yes. Therefore, it is up to the voters, honourable colleagues, to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further processing of 2966. I'm putting it to a vote right now. Ready? Thus, the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft National Commission Act (2966) is put to the vote. Please support me, please vote. [[13:39:16]] For 222 The potential is, you can go back. It's only then that I ask my fellow MPs, who are in the towers, who are in the government's bed, to return to the hall. And now we're going to vote first for the return. Please take your seats and take part in the vote. Therefore, the proposal to return to vote 2966 is put to the vote. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[13:40:02]] For 223 223 for. The decision is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll put it back. As chairman, I have the right to ask that question several times. And I'm asking you to focus the entire room. Who's not in the hall, come in, take jobs. And the proposal is to go back to voting for Bill 2966. Please vote for the return. [[13:40:53]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Third time, last time on the return. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's my last bet for a return. If it doesn't work, let's move on. I propose to go back to voting for Bill 2966. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[13:41:33]] For 226 Everyone has a voice! Now I'm making an offer. The proposal, I stress, to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft National Commission Act (2966). Please support and vote responsibly. Please vote. [[13:42:16]] For 226 Offer. 226, decision taken. Thank you. The next bill of those to be adopted in the IMF support package is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the system of guaranteeing the investment of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market (2045a and 2045a-1). There is a request to support the proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. It's a short-term procedure. [[13:43:10]] For a hundred and Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinović is invited to the report. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the bill of 2045 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the system of directing the contributions of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market. The bill is the result of the very fruitful cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Guarantee Fund and the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the EBRD. The purpose of the bill is to improve the procedure for the withdrawal of insolvent banks from the market, including the consolidation of the sale of assets in the fund structure, as well as the strengthening of investor rights by speeding up payments, and the reimbursement of funds to such investors. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to certain important provisions of this bill. It is proposed to establish the criminal responsibility of the bank’s managers or officials for misinformation to a investor that makes it impossible to identify the investor and delay the start of payments. It is proposed to refer to the functions of the National Bank the need to identify the previous qualifications of persons who may participate in the withdrawals of insolvent banks from the market, which will avoid the admission of unskilled investors and troubled investors before such banks are removed from the market. It is proposed to strengthen the conditions under which the bank may be classified as insolvent. There will be an expanded list of the reasons why the fund does not compensate for the costs of deposits, the fragmentation of deposits, the placement of funds as a result of fraud and other illegal activities that are the subject of criminal conduct or are under arrest. It will accelerate the start of payment to the investors of the guaranteed amount if the bank is eliminated by 20 days. An accelerated liquidation of an insolvent bank will be initiated if it complies with its statutory criteria. There will be a change in the frequency of meeting creditors’ demands by including bank-related individuals in the final payment line. It will be prohibited to extend the term of finding a bank as a problem, which will again reduce the possibility of abuse when such banks are removed from the market. In addition, the Fund will be given the right to create a console in its structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u164	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u165	Thank you. A consolidated office will be created from the sale of insolvent banks' assets, which will add the possibility again. will enable the State to recover most of the funds. In addition, the January 01, 17, bill proposes to expand the subjective contribution to which the fund’s guarantees are extended at the expense of the individuals involved. The bill will enable the fund to increase its income from the implementation of the assets of insolvent banks and accelerate the start of payments to investors, which will reduce social tension and increase investor confidence in the banking system. Please support Bill 2045. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. Please be the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. It's actually a very important bill. At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the system of guaranteeing the investment of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market (number 2045a) was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill was developed by expert expert groups: the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the members of the Supreme Council. A bill aimed at improving the process of withdrawal from the market of insolvent banks, including the introduction of a consolidated office model, will allow the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons more efficiently and less cost-effectively to manage the assets of insolvent banks in order to satisfy the larger pool of investors and creditors of such banks. The implementation of the draft Law will enable the funds to be raised from the implementation of the assets and will accelerate the start of payments to investors. It should be noted that the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the bill is a preliminary step towards receiving Ukraine's money for the additional tranche under an IMF loan of $500 million. The main scientific and expert office concludes with support for the bill. The National Bank of Ukraine also reports support for the bill. By its decisions, the Committee recommends a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u168	Please, colleagues, two to go, two to go. Please sign up. Please report on the second draft of the law, Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. Please. Then there's two for, two for against. Please, Dovbenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in Government Bill 2045a, there are mechanisms that we will need to improve the work of the Personal Guarantee Fund. At the same time, what we have to say is that right now, if we look at the real situation, we have more than 50 banks that are being pulled out of the market, we have tens or tens of billions of dollars stuck there. Today we're being dumped with letters of appeal by people who have deposits. First. What can you do to those who have more than 200,000 dollars in deposits? What should be done to those organizations, institutions, such as insurance, charity, social, cooperatives, and OSBB, where money is also stuck? And that's why we, my co-authors, the Cuban MPs and Squirrel, have proposed a mechanism that allows shares to take into account the needs and interests of those investors who have these problems. At a committee meeting during the discussion of the bill, we received our wish not to place as a mandatory mechanism to transform stocks into shares. My singers don't deny it. After further work on the committee, we can complete the law that the team is leading with Rizanenko. Therefore, the committee’s decision to support it in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, please sign two for two, two against. Polakov, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u171	My dear colleagues, with regard to this bill, I would like to say that it can be supported as a whole in the first reading. But at the same time, we cannot agree with the specific rules of the bill. For example, the bill proposes to expand the list of reasons why the fund does not compensate for the cost of deposits. In this regard, we cannot agree with the proposal to grant the Fund the right not to compensate for contributions that have been converted into several investors in compliance with the law. And the second point. A proposal for a change in the composition of the fund’s governing board may not be supported, which excludes a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the fund’s board of directors. Instead of increasing control over the Fund’s activities, such a proposal weakens control by the Supreme Council over the Fund’s activities. Based on what has been said, it is advisable to recommend the adoption of a bill in the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Solowy Yuri Igorovich gives Victor Pinzenic the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, although there are two bills called alternative, these are actually different bills. I will first express my position under the second bill and I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are two very dangerous standards. The first rule, which stipulates that a bank that has problems with the return of legal and natural persons, provides for forced conversion into shares, that is, instead of returning money from deposits to people, or legal persons, they are issued by shares of the shareholders. There's a voluntary conversion of over 200,000 dollars, but it's very convenient to set the conditions when you don't get paid back and put it before the choice: either you convert it into paper or you get nothing. So this rule is unacceptable, people want money, not paper, and this is what applies to legal persons, because legal persons are only forced to convert. And the second norm that provides for the conversion of the deposit guarantee fund to the owner of the bank, to the shareholder is an unacceptable thing, is its function. The shareholder of the bank may, on behalf of the State of Ukraine, be only a government in the person of the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the government bill, there is a warning and a note of the law, particularly in the extra responsibility. It can't be a stockholder society, it can't provide for the added responsibility of shareholders -- it's a nonsensus for such societies. But I recommend that colleagues support the government bill, because those comments that are before the bill, we are able to correct them for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u174	Please, Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, are now being considered in this session hall, well, without exaggeration, I can say, a really anti-national bill, which will have great consequences, negative consequences for ordinary ordinary citizens. Which, unfortunately, I can now say, I've put the right funds into the problem banks, banks that haven't been able to cope with this financial crisis due to the lack of liquid negotiable funds, and to pay the right costs in foreign currency. What exactly is proposed by the bill? The previous reporter has already rightly pointed out to you that, in fact, our government, the current authorities are proposing to solve the problems of troubled banks on the basis of ordinary average citizens, giving them not the costs, but the corresponding paperwork in the form of shares of troubled banks. So this is actually a population robbery that took place in 1991, when actually the USSR Savings fund disappeared and they were given nothing. Papers are offered instead. I also want to say that the authorities are also trying to solve the issue of foreign currency deposits, which have been invested in the banking system by ordinary average citizens, precisely by printing funds by the National Bank of Ukraine. Because these deposits will return to the national currency. Now, think about it, in accordance with the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2015, an issue of 100 billion dollars will already be planned. So what will be the cost of your foreign deposits, and what will be the purchasing power of the given bracelet? Therefore, the proposal does not support the guidelines of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Another minute, Yuri Lewchenko, and we move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u177	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, Law 2045a-1 is that the alternative is definitely not to be supported, hopefully it won't even be about that. Because they're offering to transfer all responsibility to the bank's private investors and just hand over the fantacles in the form of shares from settled banks instead of real money, so you can't support that. With regard to Law 2045a, the original, the first reading could be voted for. But there's a few moments that aren't very good. First of all, it is proposed to change the composition of the Governing Council, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, by excluding representatives of the Supreme Council's profile committee, and to increase the representation of Kabmin to one person. Wait, an increase in the powers of executive power, which control everything in this regard, is softly incorrect. At least there's some balance in the different branches of power in this direction. That is why such a rule cannot be supported in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to come into the hall from the towers, please prepare for the vote as they enter the hall, please, Oleg Lazko, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u179	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. I have an appeal to the government, to the second reading to support and raise a bill of damages to the bankrupt banks. Because today, 200 thousand dollars of thresholds, for 200,000 dollars, people don't have the opportunity to get the money, you have to raise at least half a million dollars of compensation to make it possible for unscrupulous bank investors to get their money. And those who robbed the banks, particularly the Yanukovich gang, are right, instead of the money, paper to them, and let them go with those papers to the same place. Recently, son Janukovic’s partner, Ignatenko, wanted to take away and steal 100 million dollars. It's a simple person who's retired, the last savings, can't get the money, and the Yanukovich gang is pulling hundreds of millions out of the banking system. We've got to cover this balloon office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. During the discussion, a proposal was made to vote 2045 a with the proposals of Polyakov and Doubenk. This is the position and the committee, and this is actually the agreed position of the hall, and that's why I'm asking for it. And support. So we can go through. We're preparing for the vote, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u181	No, no, my colleague, 2045 is a government draft of the law, what Andry Volodymyrovich said. Ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u182	Ready to vote? Please vote on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market (2045) with the proposals of Polyakov and Doubbenk, please vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u183	Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u184	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u185	2045 based, 2045a based. [[14:00:55]] For 212 They didn't. Let's go back again, I don't think I've got time to vote. Let's go back. We'll be back, Victor Mikhailovich. Let's go back to the consideration. Please come back. There was Polack's offer, as far as I can tell, yes, she's right. Let's go back, let's go back and then I'll give the word to Pinzenik. In return, let's all vote, now let's go back and clarify again. I mean, it just wasn't. [[14:01:27]] For 218. Fellows, let's return again. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. One minute, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, why did they fail? The battles arose in connection with the clarification of voting in the first reading of the draft law, the government taking into account amendments to the law of the following, and there the standards that were criticized and all denied. So there's a proposal: to make it clear that we're voting on the first reading of the government project, and then we're proposing a second reading without any amendments. And we will support that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u187	That's an absolutely smart offer. That's an absolutely smart offer. Let's go back, colleagues, please come back, let's all consolidation. Please come back, we vote in return, friends, we vote, we vote. There's been a clarification, I think it's perfectly understandable. [[14:02:29]] For 238. Yes. Decision taken. And based on 2045a, we vote, we vote 2045a, we vote, without amendment, we vote for base 2045a. And let's look at the second reading of what Victor Mikhailovich said. [[2:02:48]] For 234 And there's a proposal for a reduced procedure to prepare for the second reading. We're voting for a reduced procedure, for a reduced procedure. Please support me, colleagues, but we have to work on it qualitatively. [[14:03:11]] For 201 For a reduced procedure, friends, preparation for second reading. Please support this proposal. It's just going to say that we're going to work with it qualitatively. Please, colleagues, prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Stop voting. Natalia Jaresko, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just confirming that this is a structural beacon, and we have to finish it by 30 June. And so I'm asking you to work on the committees with us, with the fund and with Nazbank for all the necessary amendments -- and finish, and bring it out on June 30. We need a reduced order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Colleagues, we need to listen, because this is extremely important. By the 30th, we can work properly and formulate all the proposals. Therefore, I ask all national deputies to support this proposal. Please! In preparation for the second reading, the procedure is shortened. Please be supportive. Please support your colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:04:34]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, one more question, and we'll call it a break, just for an hour, friends. Guys, we're only going to announce an hour for consultations. See, 2956: draft law that we've discussed. 2956: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. They've had a technical meeting, and I think now there's going to be an adjustment that will make everyone absolutely. I'd like to invite Alona Babak, the Self-Help faction. Do you have Arseny Petrovich? Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please 2956.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u190	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We've held additional consultations to remove any questions about this law. This law aims to do one thing: those private companies (I emphasize, including private companies) that raised money from people and didn't give money to Naftogazu for the gas they bought, should be subject to a forced de facto return to government property and that NAK Naftogaz Ukraine should have the right to collect debt from these companies. The main question raised was, first of all, Self-help, so that there would be no shadowy privatization. And we're going to add a phrase to this law that specifically removes any question about any attempt at shadow privatization. I will read the text of the law that is proposed for your consideration, just the article: "The act of moratorium set out in part 1 of this article does not extend to the enforcement of property" – in parentheses, attention! “(with the exception of property which is not subject to privatization according to legislation),” the bracket closes, “to repay the debt owed to the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine” and its subsidiaries, which carried out natural supply on the basis of a licence.” Period! Thus, the text of the law included a basic rule that questioned the so-called shadow privatization. The law clearly states that the bill does not apply to property that is not subject to privatization. And that takes away all the questions that people have, including deputy majors in their districts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill is under discussion and the procedure for discussion is now not subject to discussion. We have a proposal you've heard, it's in line with the technical regulations announced by the Prime Minister of the country. We still don't discuss this bill. All positions have been expressed during the discussion and we will now be determined by voting. So I propose 2956 now, taking into account the proposals made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ready to vote? Please vote. Please. Colleagues, we've already had this discussion. Do not ask for a word, for there is no word. Let us vote on this bill as amended by the Prime Minister of the country as a whole. Vote. Let's vote, as amended. It's an important law that we're talking about, we're voting, we're supporting. And these adjustments will not give anyone the opportunity to abuse. [[14:08:23]] For-188. By factions, let's go. 77, 74, and so on. Okay. Fellows, let's do it this way. Now let's go back to looking at this draft law. Let's go back and I'll give you my word. We're going back. Please support the return. Colleagues, please support the return. Let's go back and talk about it. Please come back. [[14:09:01]] For 201 Colleagues, mobilize. Please mobilize. Let's go back. Go back to the study. Once again, I'm putting a vote on it. National deputies, please support with respect to your return. To return. And then we'll talk about it again, I guess. [[14:09:33]] For 207 Colleagues, let's go back and I'll call it a day. We're going back. We'll have more technical consultations. We're not going back, there's not going to be a break, we're going to work. Let's go back and call it a break. Please, colleagues, please back up. Let's go back. Let's go back and call it a break. Let's go back and call it a break, colleagues. Please support me. [[14:10:17]] For 206 Okay. Dear colleagues, we have many. Full-time routine, and I suggest we call it an hour. Is there no objection? You don't? Let's call it a 15-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you. 15. 30 please all come to the hall and continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u192	Colleagues, please come into the starting room. Please unlock the boards of deputies from different factions. Mr. Yemeni, please stop blocking the rostrum. Dear colleagues, we're going into the hall to continue our work. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. And I'm asking the heads of factions to mobilize the special factions. We now have two bills and then the Election Laws. This is a very important and certainly the most important question of the day. The sooner we get to work, the sooner we can decide to change electoral legislation. So I'm asking you very much for a high level of discipline, mobility, and I'm asking you to come into the hall. There aren't enough deputies now, Mr. Ruslan. I'm asking you very much who's in the towers, who's in the buffet, throwing everything away, going into the hall to start our work. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to enter for the start of our work, for the start of our registration. Dear colleagues, please come in and we'll have your registration now. Please get as close as possible to your workplaces. Calling your colleagues to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we did not close the morning session, so we continue our work. And now, according to the agenda, we're going to consider another bill in a package of those bills at the request of the IMF. And now we are going to consider Bill 2879, the draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that we consider it as a reduced procedure. I ask very much for the vote to take up jobs and to support this proposal. Dear fellow MPs, please enter for the vote. Heads of factions, are you ready to vote? Then I'm voting on a motion to review the reduced procedure of Bill 2879 and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please, I'm sorry, this is going on in the morning. We didn't close the morning session. Attention, Your Honor, I have to tell you again: we haven't closed our morning session, formally, we're continuing our morning meeting and that's why. I made it clear to the lawyers, the morning session wasn't closed, there's a transcript, so we're continuing our work and, uh, honorary colleagues. You signed up? Very well, I'm happy for you, we've all signed up, and that's very good, it's just systematizing our work. And I now ask my fellow honourable Members to back up the proposal to consider the short-term bill 2879, please vote in favour of the short-term procedure, we vote. [[15:46:11]] For-119 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to address those deputies who think it's very important to consider the electoral bill today. If we now begin to consider the bill in full procedure, it will take a little more than an hour. So I'm asking very, very much, at this point, to have more responsibility, to have more responsibility with regard to my position, and if we want to go over the electoral bill today and not once again, I'm asking very much to back up the proposal to consider Bill 2879 as a simplified procedure. Can I count on your support, Mr. Oleg, Self-Help? I can count, can't I? Then, please, once again, I'm putting a motion to vote, I'm considering a reduced procedure of 2879, and I'm very much asking you to vote and support it. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote. [[15:47:30.]] For-149 A few deputies have not been able to come forward, so I am proposing a reduced procedure for the third time and the last time. Please come into the hall and prepare. And once again, I ask you to vote in favour of question 2879 in short notice. Please support with responsibility and discipline. Please vote. Please vote. [[15:48:06]] For-164 Thank you for your support, for your position. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Sebastián Natalia Ilarionovna. Excuse me, I'll have Petrenko report, Minister. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u194	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Now it's going to be considered not just one of the laws that applies to the so-called IMF package. Now we're going to be looking at that law that really relates to the real issue of fighting corruption that Ukraine has to implement in order to justify the expectations of our Ukrainian people. There was much discussion about the bill. It has been in Parliament for more than two months, and it refers to the fact that our state officials of the highest class in their declarations have indicated not only the property they have formed but also the property they are actually using. There are a lot of criticisms, including in this room, that say that you know this will be a violation of human rights, because our law enforcement authorities may be persecuting state officials. I want to make one argument that was discussed on the committee yesterday. To this day, our law enforcement agencies are considering criminal conduct in connection with the so - called Interigree. And the Attorney General's Office was forced to file the case for a bribe, which Mr. Kluev gave Mr. Janukovic a bribe in the form of granting him the right to use the residence of the Inter-Igoria for a certain period of time. The entire Ukrainian people know that these palaces were owned by Yanukovic, the hundreds of hectares of land. But it happened that according to the legislation of Yanukovic, he never declared this property, and more than that, he formed it on the basis of companies belonging to Mr. Clovis. And those hundreds of millions of dollars that have been spent on these objects are now trying, through legal failures, to pull out of the investigation of the area that belongs to the Janukovich environment. And our law enforcement agencies need to come up with schemes to get the Ukrainian people's money back. That's why we needed to change our anti-corruption legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u195	Please, 20 seconds, finish. One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u196	which, once and for all, for our civil servants of the highest category, is an obligation, that if you use the property that you have formed on your driver, guard or secretary and you use it on a permanent basis, be a good declaration of that property in your declaration. If you have not declared it and the law enforcement authorities have set it up, be responsible as an ordinary Ukrainian who is responsible for failing to pay taxes or not declare his property. So I would like us in this room to really make the responsible decision that applies to every national MP. Because each national MP thinks that he wants to hide something and has voted in favour of it. I'm proposing that you take any questions about the speculations that might be possible, that, for example, you took your brother's car and walked on it, and you're going to be held accountable, or you came to your friend's house and then you're going to be forced to declare what you own this apartment. We've got after.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u197	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u198	We have after consultations with coalition factions another small addition to the text of the law, which was supported by the anti-corruption committee, by the way, unanimously. To remove any corresponding manipulation, I can now read it, this amendment. The text itself is that we complement article 46, paragraph 13, where we say that the assets referred to in this article in paragraphs 2, 9 of the first part of this article, which is an object.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u199	Minister, please, 30 more seconds, but try to finish in those 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u200	which are the property rights of a third party with a view to achieving the interests of the declarant and his family regarding such assets. And the declarant or members of his family can actually do so without acquiring ownership of such property, namely, do, in relation to such property, the same with the substance of the right to own, use or dispose of such property, as well as the actions that result in the change or termination of ownership of such property, without violating the rights of the owner. We suggest making a footnote that says what it is to make a declaration of interest, to take it all down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u201	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u202	We suggest that we make a note to take away all the fears of our national MPs, to define what is "the pursuit of the declarant's interest." The exercise of the declarant’s and his family’s interests is the possibility of exercising rights, possession, use, or management of appropriate assets on a permanent basis during the six months of the reporting year for which the declaration is made. This means that if you use a suitable property for 6 months on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u203	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u204	So then you have to submit this information about the apartment, the car, the securities for the declaration. If you used, for example, your brother's car 1-2 times and actually he owns it, not the fictitious owner of it, then you don't put any information into the declaration. So there's a proposal, honourable national MPs, not that this law applies to the IMF programme, and it will allow us to get $2 billion in exchange for the tranche, but that it's actually improving our anti-corruption programme and anti-corruption declaration. And yesterday, by the way, representatives of the civil anti-corruption community unanimously asked the national MPs to vote in favour of this law in general. I think with these amendments that I've announced, it takes away all the fears of our officials and is effective in implementing our anti-corruption fight. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u205	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption of Soboljev Yegor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u206	The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee recommends that Parliament adopt this bill on a basis and generally. It's actually a tiny and very uncertain step towards ending the very common practice of our judges, law enforcement officers, top-seasoners living like French millionaires, but having declarations like Ukrainian pensioners. Let's take this little step.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u207	Thank you very much. As far as I know, there is a need for discussion. And so I'd like you to sign two for, two for against, please. Popov Igor Volodymyrovich, Radical Party From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, indeed, the question of the life - style of our high - ranking people is very important. And in meetings with voters, we constantly hear criticism that our officials, judges, prosecutors declare that they are as poor as church mice, driving super expensive cars, living in large houses, and all of this happens in the eyes of voters. Indeed, this law takes only the first step to allow them to declare what they do not officially belong to, but what they actually use. I thank the Ministry of Justice, especially. and personally to the minister for having a very fruitful discussion, and we have written this rule out as soon as possible. And that's why we can vote for it today, even in general. Moreover, it is an important beacon in our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. However, this alone rule does not force them to declare everything. This is the norm itself, and this rule itself looks like the right to give the DAI employee the speed of the car just by the eye. There may be abuse, but we have time to prepare a normative basis for this. The new declaration season will begin in the new year. And by the new year, the Ministry of Justice, as a temporarily authorized body for anti-corruption policy, should begin to prepare such instructions, normative acts. And then the National Anti-Corruption Agency, which we have to create immediately, should approve the Kabmin order of all these instructions. Unfortunately, however, the process of establishing a National Anti-Corruption Agency has been slowed down today. Today, civil society is not fully understood, for experts on a competitive committee. That's why we ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to review the results of the competition commission, to form a committee of real experts with experience of work, and we call on the Supreme Council to pick up a representative as soon as possible for the selection of leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u209	Please. Thank you very much. Here's to Novak Natalia Vasilovna, "Peter Dustenka's Block." Natalia Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u210	Please pass the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u211	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Vice Speaker! I very much ask you, on behalf of tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, to publish the chairmanship of every national MP for this law. And we're going to see a list of those who, together with the Ukrainian people, are against the hiding of wealth, re-painting themselves in poor and poor national MPs and politicians who are for transparency. So I'm also talking to a huge army of social organizations that have been there for 5 or 7 or 10 years or 20 years fighting corruption. My dears! As of today, you will have a job, and you will be able to film where they live, where they go, and where Ukrainian national deputies, officials of the Cabinet of Ministers, judges and prosecutors go. And if we can't even make a clear record of everyone who's hiding from the law, who's hiding his real declaration, and if we can get at least a dozen of the prescriptions on the car that ordinary Ukrainian citizens are driving, we can force at least a dozen prosecutors and judges, at least for a while, into flats where ordinary Ukrainian citizens live, it will be the first major achievement of this bill. In general, we very much agree with the previous speaker, we need to severely strengthen the standards of responsibility for breaching the data in the declaration. Every ordinary Ukrainian can see, like in an aquarium, where he lives, where he travels, where every politician, every official, judge, and prosecutor lives. Transparency is the path to salvation from corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u213	Thank you. Please, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, People's Front faction. Passes the word to Yemen. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u214	Good afternoon! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. To make it clear how the declaration system worked and worked, unfortunately, today. It was designed to allow an official, a judge, a deputy to have an official salary of 2-3, a maximum of 5,000 dollars, to use yachts, to use villas, to get mad money, and then to hide it from Ukrainian society. This bill is a very serious blow to this system, and we're opening up all these bribes, opening up corrupts, allowing them to be brought out into clean water. And I'm calling on the Ukrainian people, let them pay attention to those MPs who won't vote for this bill today because they have the income they want to hide from the Ukrainian society, and they're the ones who want to keep the rules and systems of corruption in the way that it was created back in the days of Yanukovich. I call on Parliament to demonstrate its openness, honesty, support the bill and show the Ukrainian people that we have really moved on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction, passes the word to Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! The main reason was that the wonderful law that is approved in this room would not again become a emptiness. I call you the article of the Tax Code, as it is called, and we will see if it has ever been applied in Ukraine. I am with the Minister of Finance, article 164.2.17 is called “The income received by the taxpayer as an additional benefit”, where there is a direct rule on the third connected persons, where it is written that if an additional benefit is used (a) housing, nutrition, property, travel provided by third parties, it should all be declared and it is a direct criminal responsibility for the non-declaration of this article. I have picked up materials, or at least once in Ukraine, this rule has been applied to Yanukovič in Medjugorje, with regard to any other person. So to your knowledge, this standard has never been applied. We don't have enough standards in legislation? So the decision of our faction is, we vote in favour of this law, but if we continue to do so, the legislative basis that allows all of this to be done with regard to third parties, we will never have order in the state. So the proposal raise this article, I call it, you can directly comment on it, 164.2.17 "The income received by the taxpayer as an additional benefit." Show me about whom this article was applied at least once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u217	Are they still desirable for the talk? Please, Yuri Lucenko, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u218	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a connection in this room when we voted in favour of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and appropriate legislation. At that time, we all rejoiced that we had taken a great step toward victory over widespread corruption. Sadly, when it comes to the disclosure of property, patriotism of many deputies ends. I want to say that the proposed bill is, to put it mildly, imperfect. It does not specify what will be understood by the use of property. One night at a brother's house. Is this the use of this dowry? Once you drive your friend's car. Is that a use? So on behalf of the faction, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister for the Ministry of Justice to take such extraordinary laws seriously. And yet, in the first reading, I ask all my colleagues to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u219	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u220	To vote in favour, because Janukovic should not live in Medjugorje, under the cover of the Clovis. Because no one should drive a car that is designed for their driver or declare it. Because no one should live in their relatives' house without a declaration. Finally, we must cross this barrier, a civilizational choice. Please vote "yes" in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the voting room. I'll give Lewchenkov one more minute, then the minister. Please. And I ask the deputies to come into the hall. Please, Jurko Levchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u222	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I already told you yesterday when we were looking at the laws on combating buttonage, on parliamentary ethics, on hypocrisy in this room. And now this hypocrisy continues. Now everyone's talking about this declaration, this is a very good bill, we have to adopt it, we vote in favour. But please tell me which faction of the coalition, not the coalition, which faction has excluded at least one national MP from its ranks because his declaration, in which there are 10, 20, 50 thousand bracelets a year, does not correspond to his real life. Because they're all coming out of the session room today and sitting on their Lexus, Mercedes, and driving around their cottages in Concha-Sleep. And what is unknown is that faction leaders don't know that? Now you're going to end up here fighting, fighting. Then you can rule out one such bastard from your faction, then there will be a real struggle, not total hypocrisy and lies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u223	Thank you. And please, the final word, Minister Paul Petrenko. Please enter the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliyovich, I would like to stress once again that we are taking away all the warnings that were given to the people's deputies. We ask you to support this bill in an editorial that was supported by the committee yesterday. And the committee asked to be voted on as a whole in order to withdraw the warnings, including those made by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. I'd like to take your warning under the transcript right now. Now I want to read a footnote to this paragraph 13 under the stenogram, which defines what the declarant's interest is. The exercise of the declarant’s and his family’s interests is the possibility of exercising the right to own, use or dispose of property on a permanent basis for the six months of the reporting year for which the declaration is made. I ask with this footnote in the text of the Committee plus with a footnote that I have made, to vote in general. Because there are risks that this law will then be lost in our committees before the second reading, and once again six months we will not have such changes to the law. Officials need to make a declaration with such requirements during this reporting year. I'd like to support you in general, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u225	Thank you. Another replica, 30 seconds, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, as soon as we heard Minust's reaction. And I think it gives an answer to many who question the implementation of this law. You can hear the apartment where you live for six months on a permanent basis, the car that you use for at least six months, and so on. So in this way, any accidents that many people have been worried about and may be subject to abuse by law enforcement agencies have been removed. Six months on a permanent basis is a prerequisite for demarcating the declaration, but on the first reading, all other amendments will be made to the committee’s work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u227	Thank you. So another 30 seconds, Aleg Replica, please. And let's go to the vote, please come into the hall, there's going to be a vote now. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u228	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yuri Vitaliyovich, you say: 6 months live, take it. What if we take five months and two thirds of a month, don't we? As we drive, they take the transport two days before the time of the temporary importation, and they leave and reenter. You know what, let's either adopt laws that really overcome corruption, or let's create the visibility of the fight against corruption. Therefore, the proposal: In the first reading, we vote, in the second reading, we work together, if necessary, on a reduced procedure, but such laws are not adopted by vote. That's why I'm talking to the MPs: all of them as one to support this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u229	Thank you. We had a heated discussion of the bill, and I, with your permission, will put it to the vote. Please come into the hall, first I'm going to put a proposal to the vote on the basis and if there are no warnings, in general, but if there are warnings, I won't be able to put it all together. So the bill amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (as far as the amount of information declared is concerned by persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government) is based on number 2879. Please vote, please support the important bill, please vote. [[16:11:24]] For 259. Decision taken. Congratulations! Can I put it all together? There's a denial, there's a denial, and according to the rules, I can't put it all together. There's a warning from the factions' heads. So we're going to go to the next bill that we have last in the IMF package, this is Bill 2029a of the Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine in the area of municipal services. There is also a request to consider it as a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:12:20]] For-179 Decision taken. Hennaday Zubko, Vice Prime Minister, please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a little quieter in the hall, we're considering important laws, and there's incredible noise in the hall. Please be quiet. Mr. Hennaday, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u230	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the national parliament, you have before you a bill of 2029a that amends the very serious laws of Ukraine that improve legislation on housing and utilities. It's the Housing Services Act, the state regulation of the utility market, and the thermal supply law. The changes will provide an opportunity to set economically sound tariffs and not allow our companies to work with a tariff gap when the cost of electricity or gas is raised and services are provided in order to reduce today’s government budget pressure from the payment of subsidies to the difference in tariffs. I ask you to consider this bill and support it. Because Ukraine has signed an agreement on the creation of a single energy partnership and we need to bring Ukrainian legislation closer so that our utilities can invest in their businesses, they can invest in an investment component, and so we can go to a new level of quality of services. So please support this bill as a whole. And so bring up this issue in order to reduce subsidies from the state budget. In addition, I can give an example of what happened to us in the spring, when the cost of gas rises, they don't get to raise the tariffs for the Heatcommunergo, as well as for other businesses, and the big difference in tariffs lies on the shoulders of our citizens in a very short period of time. Therefore, I am very grateful for your support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's a note, from the bed the press are throwing outside objects at the Opposition Block, there's a request from the Opposition Block that we don't throw outside objects at them anymore. It happened by accident, apparently. By the way, whose property you can approach and obtain at the Presidium of the Supreme Council. "The Opposition Block," thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Skuratovski Sergey Ivanovich, please. Society, committee head broke his leg, who can report from the committee? Then let us give Alona Babak a report from the committee, thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u232	Dear National Deputies! The bill under registration number 2029a was examined by the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing on June 17, 2015. The purpose of the bill was just announced by Deputy Prime Minister Hennadi Zubko. And, in fact, this bill is really aimed at ensuring that water-supply companies, heat-farming farms can turn and receive loans from international financial institutions that today do not want to lend when housing-communal tariffs do not compensate for the economic-based costs of these enterprises. And that's why we understand that, in fact, tariffs have to be set at the level of economically sound costs and therefore, in general, we have to ideologically support this bill and that's how the committee voted. He's proposing to Parliament, he's recommending that Parliament adopt this bill as a basis, in no way adopt it today as a whole, because the bill, the same bill we've already considered with you twice as much, is the third analogous integration. What is the problem that needs to be further developed? This is a question of determining the profitability of tariffs. It is written that tariffs should compensate for self - worth and profitability. Question: "What's the profitability?" We have to specify how it's defined and we have to do it for the second reading. Moreover, the bill did not say how public budget debts should be reimbursed to enterprises of an amount of 5.8 billion dollars for the unreparable difference in tariffs. We have to make this a transitional provision in the Housing Services Act, to which the change is made. So, honourable colleagues, here's a proposition for you: to support the bill in the first reading only and to work on the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u233	Thank you. Please sign in: two for, two for against, please. From the Self-Help faction, Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u234	I give the word Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u235	It's okay. Thank you. Lewchenko W.O. "Freedom", 223rd District, city of Kiev. Society, this bill has, once again, the same situations that were, in effect, before. It is stipulated that there should be a sufficient level of profitability that covers the cost of producing the appropriate energy. I remind those who have forgotten. Who do we have today are the right monopolies in the right sectors of the economy? This is Mr. Ahmedov, these are the other oligarchs who, at the expense of such a bill, will put in such a cost that will be the last penny left in our poor people. So essentially, this bill is working to continue the poverty of the Ukrainian nation. For those who say that between the first and the second readings, it can be specified as to profitability, it's an open manipulation, because it's impossible to do that. If one of the oligarch lobbyists in this room wants to take down some sort of amendment, they're going to overturn this amendment, and this bill will remain in its original version, with this criminality rule on profitability. Today, under conditions of total poverty, we need to talk not about economic justification but about social justice. It is necessary that, at the expense of the oligarchic business, appropriate tariffs should be imposed so that people can afford to pay these tariffs, rather than give up the last penny and sell their property, and stay with nothing to pay for, for example, heating. Therefore, respectable national MPs, especially senior officials, should consider pressing the button. By voting for this bill, you will allow Ahmetov and other oligarchs to rob the Ukrainian people even more. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u236	Thank you. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u237	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected compatriots! I'm asking you a rhetorical question: which one of you today can afford to pay dragon tariffs for residential services? I'm sure. I see the members of the robbery block are pulling their hand in what they can pay for. Yes, you can pay because you've stolen so much that you can pay for everyone else, and millions of people can't pay because they don't have anything to pay, because these tariffs are unfounded, and the main thing is that millions of people don't have the ability to earn money to feed their families and pay for these tariffs. Should tariffs be economically sound? Of course they're guilty. After all, the business can't work for itself. But should there be tariffs when a person has to pay his last salary and pension to pay for these tariffs? No! No! Because there is no such thing in the world that a person works only to pay for utilities. So the answer is, you have to create jobs, you have to raise wages, you have to raise the purchasing power of the population. Because when you're here from the parliamentary rostrum, some populists are pouring crocodile tears and telling me that everyone needs to be subsidized, so if you don't have the ability to make money, then no subsidy will help. Give a person a job, give him a normal salary, and he doesn’t need any subsidies. Because we have 25 billion dollars in our grant budget this year, 13 million Ukrainian citizens are entitled to subsidies, and how much has this subsidy benefited today? 100,000 people. Here's all the subsidies. So you have to give people a job, pay, and that's the perspective, and that's going to be a normal life. Therefore, respectable colleagues need to vote for jobs, not subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u238	Thank you. Musak Aleksei Petrovich, "Peter Duster's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u239	Please give my word to my colleague at the Igor Nasalik faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u240	Nasalika, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u241	Good afternoon, dear friends! Let's get this straight, and what's the difference in tariffs that Alona Babak was talking about. The difference in tariffs is the populism of past governments and past parliaments that stopped tariffs from rising in energy. Today, the difference in tariffs is more than 5 billion dollars, and that's given that literally on Wednesday, the government decided on 2.9 billion in utilities. Now. Gennady Grigorovich, you mentioned that tariffs can't change if energy is changing, so they're inert. I completely agree with you. And for that, there's a formal approach to creating tariffs that automatically match.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u242	Third position. What should be the meaning of tariffs? Alona Babak said it right, but not completely. It's not just profitability that needs to be determined. That's what I need. should determine which gross costs are to be incurred on the formation of the tariff. So, of course, the law should be adopted, worked, and prepared in the first reading. Social enterprises can't work for themselves. They can't!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u243	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u244	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Vice Prime Minister! We've included two bills with you today with an absolute majority of the votes in Parliament. The first bill is about lowering the interest rate on gas and setting a zero rate for the population, which is now 70 percent. And the second bill that we put into the agenda is about tariff creation, number 2832. He passed an appropriate committee yesterday. Yes, he was warned, but it's a bill that really fits the name of what we're looking at right now. It clearly defines the order in which the counters are installed, which means that the counters are not only private buildings but also general counters, including the heat of the counters. It sets out the order in which the gas extracted in Ukraine is diverted to the Ukrainian population. There is a clear standard for the transmission of such gas by public companies, if they are joint ventures or private companies, they are obliged in the distribution contracts to transfer 50 percent of the gas directly to the needs of the population. This bill corresponds directly to the subject. I don't understand why this bill was introduced by the government. Because the definition that is actually the key terms of this bill allows tariffs to produce anything. That's why our faction proposes that this bill be sent to the author of the legislative initiative. To consider, for this is an alternative, and for this is the conclusion of the 2832 Committee, where there are answers to all the questions about how there is a transparent tariff formation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u245	Thank you. One minute, Deputy Kodol, People's Front. Then, a minute, Vice Prime Minister, and Tetjana Blackwall's People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u246	I want to talk about my predecessor's cynical speech. This is where the 2835 bill, called "the cost of gas for the population" was lobbyed. In fact, this bill is called upon to protect the interests of an oligarch in the gas field of Oneshchenka Kadirov. I'm quoting a comparative table of this bill. The interest rate on natural gas produced during the implementation of joint activities contracts, which was 70 percent off. It's about Kadirova-Onishtenka's businesses, which have contracts in common with Crushing. These enterprises were formerly owned by Yanukovich, who was created by Yanukovich. How? National wells were given to the companies created. It's a coup d'état! The new authority assigned 70 percent of the rent to these companies. As a result, this rent is now being eliminated. Next. It's important. How did these state wells get into these businesses? Destroyer-Kadirov is in control of the company.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u247	Please give me 30 seconds to finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u248	Destroyer-Kadirov is in control of Natural Resources Plus. This enterprise was handed over to the state wells at the time of the shooting of Midan, and now this oligarch is lobbying the Fatherland, personally Julia Timoshenko, who, thanks to Maidan, has gone free.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, national MPs! It's not a very good sign, like you did with your hand. It's not that good, it's Germany. In the 1930s, it's Germany. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Opoblok, Papiev. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u250	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I ask the chairman to have all the Ukrainian national deputies working in equal conditions. Why? Because when a member of the Opposition Block can interrupt the chairman and say he doesn't give him a word, because he's not acting in the daytime and not in the law, but others can be selective principles that condemn the countries of the European Union that don't match the European aspirations of Ukraine. With regard to this law. This law is totally anti-national, and it is impossible to vote for it. This law is absolutely not conducive to energy efficiency. The other one. Some of you have wondered why Ukrainian citizens, depending on their place of residence, pay different tariffs for gas, water, electricity, although this is the standard of the Constitution, the equality of citizens. Today, we have the highest tariffs for water consumption in Chernobyl, which are three times the tariffs in Kiev. And we need to think about how to economically interest people, how to promote the businesses that provide these services, so that tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u251	Ten seconds, 20 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u252	To ensure that tariffs are primarily available to citizens. And it is impossible to say with one hand today that tariffs are three times higher, and with another hand today to vote for a government law that will raise tariffs three times more. We are definitely against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u253	Thank you. Friends, there is no doubt about what it takes for us to establish economically sound tariffs in Ukraine and they were public and open. And that's a fundamental question. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote as far as I can see. Mikhail Golovko, one minute. And then the final word of Hennaday Grigorovich, Deputy Prime Minister. I ask all deputies to take their seats. Mikhail Golovko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u254	Dear MPs, Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We're talking about economically sound tariffs. Excuse me, let's start looking at whether the economically sound price for gas is today. Because everyone has been proved and there are official answers from the Ministry of Energy that the price of gas in Ukraine today is 1,600 dollars. We buy gas in Russia for $248, which sells about five thousand, 600 dollars, and seven,200 vacation prices to the population. The question is, what difference does it make? Why should the population be overpaid? Why should this burden fall on the shoulders of the common people? Today, 285 percent were raised, and almost seven times the price of gas is too high. Why is it bullying and genocide? I don't think that's acceptable. Therefore, we must raise questions to both the Prime Minister and the Energy Minister. You can't vote on that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u255	Can we lower the level of discussion in each other's rooms? Can we? I demand order. I demand attention. Look, colleagues, there are two states of the question. On the one hand, it's a question that we have to take, on the other hand, that's a policy that politicians are destined to deal with. We need to get out of the rostrum, make very nice statements and everything, but it doesn't end. And the people of Ukraine see it, and they appreciate it completely objectively. I can testify as a person who worked for almost 10 years at the local level. People see what you're saying, what you're doing. So, colleagues, if we say we have a program, a program of cooperation with international financial organizations, that means it's a two-way movement. We have voted today since the beginning of the day to ratify the treaty. This means that we make a commitment, and we are under obligation. If we're talking about draft law 29, sorry, 2029a, that means only that we take it as a basis, we support dialogue, we work professionally on the committee, we prepare for second reading and we continue to make decisions. I can tell you that sometimes the rostrum of Parliament resembles, you know, the casting rostrum. And that's unacceptable, because sometimes we hear black people speaking in white and black people speaking in white. That can't be right, guys. We already agreed to a pen. So I'm very much asking, with great respect to you, your honourable colleagues, the absolute majority of me respect my colleagues, the absolute majority, I ask you to have a constructive interaction and a responsible attitude towards decision-making. Gennady Teeth a minute and we move to the vote, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to understand each other at all. On the one hand, the committee says that today the difference in tariffs that was created in previous years needs to be reversed, and on the other hand, it is said that we do not want to support this difference to be eliminated and there is no such thing as spending on inefficient enterprises that create this difference in tariffs constantly from the state budget. If we want to get together every year to count and return these differences in tariffs, we will continue to live this way. And this difference in tariffs will be used both by efficient businesses and by those who do not care, because they know that this difference will be returned from the state budget, which means from the budgets and pockets of those citizens who are paying taxes today and who are also very difficult to live. So I would like you to remove populism from this issue, clean up politics and allow every efficient enterprise to work in equal conditions rather than get a "equal layer" of that subsidy that is "smudged" every year for these enterprises that cannot provide effective work. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, I think we've talked too much, I'm asking you to take your seats now and I'm going to put to the vote a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine in the area of municipal services. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law is considered in the first reading, in the first reading, and this means that by the second reading, we can work it out with you so that it meets the requirements of time. Please, get ready. Ready to vote? Please support the 2029th draft of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the area of municipal services. The results of the first reading are based, friends, on a basis. Please be supportive. This is the law of the International Monetary Fund. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Please vote 2029a as a base. Please support your colleagues. Based on that, my friends. [[16:37:25]] For 224 There's a 224 potential. In return, please vote. Colleagues, mobilize, please. I'm asking you to support this as a basis, because all of us here are in pain for Ukrainian citizens, and we understand that we have to pay pensions, we have to pay the wages of the budget, and we need financial stability to do so. On returning 2029a, I ask you to support all fellow members of the national MPs, 2029a for your return. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:38:12]] For 232 Thank you for understanding. Colleagues, on the basis of your vote, please. Please support the vote on the ground, my friends. On the basis of this, we're working on the base of 2029a. Please vote, please support. [[16:38:33]] For 237 Thank you, colleagues. Look, I see the red sector. Colleagues, if there are specific proposals under specific law, we can discuss them. We took it as a basis and took it to work. Please, there is a brief proposal to prepare it for second reading. It'll be more professional. Please support this. Please, with a reduced procedure, please support. Preparing for a reduced procedure for second reading is perfectly normal, we will work more. Please be supportive. [[16:39:07]] For 207 I feel like it's going to be 226. Colleagues! I'm proposing to prepare this bill because the lighthouse has deadlines, the lighthouse has deadlines. And I'm asking you to put us into these terms, we're going to have to do a week of normal, quality work on making proposals. Please, colleagues, the 2029th proposal to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. All the factions are making these proposals and it's perfectly normal, it's more dynamic to work. I'm not saying how to prepare for the second reading, am I? So please support this proposal (2029a), with a reduced procedure, for the second reading, please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:40:05]] For 223 Colleagues, three votes short. Once again, I repeat this offer, I need to work with my colleagues, please vote, I see. Please prepare for the second read with a reduced procedure. Please vote. What is the problem, with a reduced procedure for second reading, is that all of you will be able to do well. [[16:40:36]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. And in fact, colleagues, in fact, what's the problem? Before the second reading, work for a week, not two weeks. I'm not asking you to explain yourself. Thank you, colleagues. I didn't ask you if I needed your advice, I'd personally contact you. Dear colleagues! So let's go back to the question that we've discussed before. Please be quiet. When you come to talk to me, am I talking to you? Am I listening to you? Thank you. Thank you. Please, colleagues, I'd like your attention. We've discussed 2956 with you. We've consulted with experts. There are some suggestions that can resolve all issues. I'm asking you to come back now. National deputies, please National Deputy Nasalik and Matvienko. I'm asking you now to go back to question 2956, and this is also a derivative of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, so let's go back to it, and we'll hear proposals that everyone can make, and we'll adopt this law, if that's your will, your colleagues. Please concentrate, 2956, let me ask you a question. the question of the return of this issue as previously not supported, 2956, please, colleagues, 2956. Ready to vote? Vote, please. Please support 2956 for your return, my friends. Now, once again, we're going to talk about those proposals that might be important. [[16:42:48]] For 215 We didn't make it. Colleagues, once again, 2956 laws that need clarification at the time of adoption. I ask you to return to him and continue, after this law we are moving on to the local elections. Colleagues, please do not block local elections. 2956, I'm voting on a motion to return to this law. Please support the return to the consideration of this Law, 2956. A colleague of the National Deputies, I ask for your support. We vote 2956 for the return. Please, colleagues, for your return, please support. [[16:43:44]] For 215 That's better. All right, guys, let's do it again. Colleagues, they haven't arrived. I can see I haven't voted from a colleague. Let's get back to the vote, no questions asked. At your suggestion, National Deputy Germany, there are no questions! Let's vote now, let's go back. Colleagues, please concentrate! 2956. To return to consideration, I stress this. 2956. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Great! Back to 2956. Please support everyone, all groups and factions of Parliament. Let's go back and discuss the proposals. I think everyone's gonna be okay. Vote, colleagues, 2956. Please vote. It's just a return, my friends. [[16:44:58]] For 216 Better yet, 216. [[B in m in s a l in]] The German National MP proposes to put the matter to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, calm down! Calm down, fellows, pay attention! Your attention is required. I'll give you my word. I'm asking for your attention! I will now give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u258	Congratulations, country deputies of Ukraine! I hope that you will now take the next decision on voting for this law, but very strange statistics on voting. I understand why this law doesn't vote for the Opposition Block. I understand why this law doesn't have the "will of the people" or the "rebirth" party. But I don't understand why the "Fatherland" party is voting against this law, which makes it impossible to return to the heat utility oligarchs who owe the state money for gas. So I ask, Your Honor Mr. Head, to return to the vote in favour of this law, and that the Parenthood Party, as a worthy member of the coalition, be aware of its responsibility to bring order to the energy market and stop covering the oligarchs who own the Heatcommunergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u259	Colleagues, there's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! Stop. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! Stop! Stop! I'm talking to the factions of Parliament. Stop, please. Lower your degrees. Lower your degrees! [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, colleagues! Look. Again. Please take your seats, lower your degrees. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word! Do you think I won't give my word?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues! Please, everyone, sit down. Sit down! I'll give you my word. What kind of problems? [[B in m in s a l in]] The word is not a problem. The main problem we have in our country is not words. In our country, the main problem is action. And the biggest problem is when actions match words. The biggest problem is when actions match words. Sometimes it's all very different. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Take it. Please sit down. I will now give the floor to Sergey Sobolev. Now, Sergey Sobolev stay and you all sit down. Have a seat, please. Sit down! Have a seat. Let's do that. I have two suggestions: either you sit down or I'll ask you to sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat, please. Calm down! People's deputies, I'm asking who wants to scream, get in the towers and scream. Let the press see how loud you are. Please, Sergey Sobolev. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Prime Minister! I think we have a history of privatization by one of the oligarchs of Rinato Ahmet's Dniproenergo. You can raise all the facts as the state company Dniproenergo was privatized for debts that amounted to only 900,000 dollars and the state company became the property of Mr. Ahmedov. I say again, despite the fact that there were appropriate decisions by all the courts that stopped the trial. Well, I don't know who's protecting the oligarchs. Why do we have to go to Parliament today to extend the law by which debt, I stress once again, utilities, where you have the right to change managers, where you have the right to control them, will actually be transferred to private companies that control the oligarchs. You don't do it, sell it at an open competition, but don't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u261	Ten seconds, finish up, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u262	Which then no one controls. So the position of our faction is clear, we should be in a position to not let any enterprise sell without open competitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u263	That would be the Prime Minister's proposal to amend the law in order to vote on it. But, colleagues, listen, not the oligarchs should be protected, but Ukraine and the Ukrainians should be protected from the oligarchs. So I suggest you take your seats. I ask you to return to this law. I'm not forcing you to vote for this right now, but let's go back, let's give the word to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister will make his proposals to this law, if they do, we'll consider it and we'll make a decision if they don't make it up to you. Please, colleagues, there's an offer to return. I give my word, Igor Nasalik. Go back, give the word to the Prime Minister. Igor Nasalik of this issue participated in the discussion, and we will give him another word and we will define the vote. Is it accepted? Please return to this question (2956). In return, we will vote and you will have all the words. Please. I'm asking 2956 for a return and we'll move on to. in the rest of the discussion of local elections. Friends! Please vote. Please vote. To the return! There is no tragedy. To return. Please support my fellow national deputies. [[16:52:10]] For 209 We didn't make it. I see. I'll give you a second chance. I'll give you a second chance. I'll give you my word, Igor. The 9's okay, it's okay. Colleagues, please. 2956 for the return. Vote? 2956 please return. Please, colleagues. Take your seats, please. What are you doing in the hall? Come on, colleagues, let's vote 2956 for the return. Return. Vote. To return. [[16:53:23]] For 230 From. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for your understanding. Now a minute from the factions, my friends. One minute from the factions. Is it accepted? And we begin with the faction of the Opposition Block, the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u264	National deputy of Germany. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! What would you like me to ask? Maybe we should stop raping the MPs. We're 100 times, up to seven times, how many times can we break the Rules?Oh, my God! And don't pretend everything's okay. You know we act unconstitutionally. You can't see that Yatzenuk wants to give us the promissory notes. To buy businesses for the bill. Then do it. Therefore, please, my last name has been used here, I ask for a tomology and a meaningful burden, a name that I wanted to re-vote, the third time to vote, to exclude from terminology at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u265	Thank you. I'm asking you to rule out the terminology of the proposal of a national MP. You've heard the invitation of the National MP. Thank you. We're away from factions. From factions and groups, please sign up per minute. Sign up for a minute. Sign up in a minute. The opposition block was already there. Rebirth Party, Nichiporenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, you know, we voted against the buttons yesterday. I don't rule out that last night, in Parliament's work, there was also a knock on the door for this law. Because, as the Rules are being violated in this House, everything is possible. And they're buttoning against the buttoning, and when the Rules are broken where they need to be, they're broken where they don't need to be, they're not breaking. Let's follow the Rules. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u267	I would like to support Deputy Nichiporenk with his proposal to abide by the Rules, colleagues, and I urge all of you to abide by the Rules. Please. Please proceed, National Deputy Bakumenko, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u268	People's MP Bakumenko, Peter Prashenko Block. Please pass the word to Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u269	Igor Nasalik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u270	Dear friends, first of all, I would like to tell Sergey Sobolev that the Prime Minister has no one and has never had anything to do with the appointment of directors of utilities. This is the sole authority of the local authorities. Now essentially the law. That's the main problem. This law is cited in Law 2214. That's the main problem. Differences in tariffs that the government started. So on Wednesday, we have a $2.9 billion decision. But the main problem is that it's 13 billion people's debt to energy companies. If the government solves this problem, of course, it can be required from municipal companies to pay them. To solve this problem, of course, there will be a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, please, we still have Self-Help, Podlisecki. Leo Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u272	Self-help faction, Leo Podlisecki. The Self-Help faction is grateful to Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenyuk for his well-balanced position, for understanding our arguments and warnings about the danger of the bill. We didn't really have any warnings about the validity of the bill. But in view of the fact that it could be used for criminal purposes, we also expressed these ideas that were considered. That's why we're going to support this bill. And we suggest that we all support and move quickly to the vote for the Elections Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u273	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u274	Sobolje, Fatherland. In absolute support of Deputy Nasalik's argument that today's debt to the Heatcommunerge goes up to 13 billion dollars from the population, we can only predict what will continue to happen to the population's debt every day due to the fact that the tariffs are completely uneconomically unwarranted. This means that literally the first few months of this law's work will lead to the fact that in every city, in every inhabited area, all the enterprises that work in the heatcommunergo area are actually going to be debtors. And I'm surprised how NAC Naftogaz, who holds the best lawyers in this position, see how much they use for legal security, they can't defend their needs in the courts in front of the Heatcommunergo. That's why our faction requires further preservation of the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u275	Please, National Deputy Shapowalov, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u276	Please pass the word to Derkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u277	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! I think that our position of the will of the people on positions that really matter to the State and give people the opportunity to live better, we always support the Government's proposals. With regard to this bill, we have talked about the fact that there is a working group on tariff verification, on the formation of the Heatcommunergo tariffs, we have not seen these conclusions. Today, there are great risks that these businesses will really lose the hammer at no cost. But I would like to address you, Arsenius Petrovich. Look what's happening in the Bureau Hall today: we're killing parliamentaryism with this number of votes. Arsenius Petrovich, you are also a member of the coalition, draw the Bureau's attention to what is happening: 8 times the questions are asked, the opposition takes the floor. I, honestly, am ashamed to sit in the hall like a parliamentarian. It's embarrassing. Bring the work into the Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u278	Dear fellow national MPs! Please, Mikola the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u279	Please pass the word to Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u280	Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u281	The People's Front reminds members of the coalition once again that the bill is a structural beacon of the IMF cooperation programme, and somehow, our shared responsibility to agree on its text, which could be accepted as a basis, and then after further development, and in general. The other one. No privatization of utilities in this case is concerned, but it is solely about the debts owed to one state-owned company, the national stock company Naftogaz Ukraine. This is already clear to most people, the People's Front proposes to support the draft law, put it to the vote as quickly as possible and move on to the following questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u282	Thank you, colleagues. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u283	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, the Radical Party faction voted in favour of this bill and explain why. Today you pay, people are good, for the utility of the Heatcommunergo. Heatcommunergo belongs to private owners, and instead of paying for the money you paid for Naftogaz, they hide it in offshores, in banks, in all other companies. Debt formation, then this debt cancels out. None of the private owners who own apartments are credited with fraud. Man, don't God, don't pay for a month or two, he gets kicked out of his apartment. To the owners of the Heatcommunergo, please, billions are cheating and not counting, and the oligarchs are getting rich from it. So this law is a law against oligarchs. The one who does not vote for this law supports the oligarchs. I urge you to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, you know, I want to say the following thing. Before I say it, George Lucenko, I think he's going to generalize the position of the hall. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko of the faction. I'm going to tell you about eight or nine votes and I'm going to tell you why I have this motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u285	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, just before me was Oleg Lazko, speaking quite faithfully. Let's look into the truth in the eye, let's say directly, and "Heatcommunergo" and "Oblenergo" are, for the most part, private enterprises. And what's unacceptable is that they keep their debts to a state-owned enterprise. On the other hand, there is a problem of small, small utilities that may fall under this law through pipes that have broken through because of exceeding the standards of economically sound tariffs, but this can be regulated in a second reading. For example, if debt is more than 20 percent of turnover, or if debt is more than 200 million, for example. All of this can be done, but we now accept a bill that allows the oligarchs to pay Naftogaz to the State for the development of the whole country. Please support this bill in the first reading. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that this law is a beacon for our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, and after the unprecedented robbery of the country by 2014, we have huge problems with pensions, salaries and everything. So I'm willing to put 20 votes to any draft law that will ensure the financial stability of our country. That will ensure payment of salaries and pensions, which will ensure financial stability and the dollar’s rate. So what we're doing today, we're doing it for that. And I'd like to ask you to understand, to put politics further, further, simply: the political flags, the idea that there will be elections soon. You know, there was a coalition meeting yesterday, and the next thing you know, it doesn't matter is that Arsenija Petrovich said that nobody matters, you pick up 7 percent or 12, it only matters to Ukraine. And I would suggest to each of us that we take time in our lives, six months or a year, and work for this beautiful state, for this beautiful nation, to make decisions that will allow us to get out of where we are now. In order not only to engage in idle speech but from this rostrum to call for unity, I stress, independently, friends, political affiliations, political parties. For me, everyone is absolutely equal to working for the state. So I'd like everyone to take their seats right now. Once again, this law is important for cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and the tranche Ukraine is to receive as a temporary cure for structural reforms. And in preparing for the second reading, there will be suggestions that we will be able to work out with you in a good way. So, my friends, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote, vote 2956 on the basis. Before voting, as you take your seats, I invite you to speak to Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u287	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! I would like to address factions that are not members of the coalition. I'm convinced that in the first power of voting, they probably simply didn't pay attention to the changes in the law that is now being passed. First of all, I'm addressing the great rebirth party and the will of the people. I know that these factions never support the oligarchs, who, like the Obelhas and Oblenergo, will receive money from the people of Ukraine and will not return for electricity produced and for natural gas purchased both for import and for the interior of the country. The purpose of this law is to prevent private owners from receiving or receiving money from the population for residential services, to feed this money and not to give NAC Naftogaz to Ukraine for natural gas. The Self-Help faction introduced the very basic amendment agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That this law is not distributed to property that is not privatized according to the law. So we're taking down the basic question that was raised in the Parliamentary Hall about the so-called shadow privatization, and it's not going to happen. But we raise the basics: those oligarchs who own the Heatcommunerge, who collect money from people and don't give up that money for the Naftogaz-Ukraine natural gas, and feed it, will be stripped of their property for their Heatcommunerge. So I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u288	And here, colleagues, I ask you to support the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole. Please, colleagues, with these proposals, I'm putting draft Law registration number 2956 to the vote as a basis and as a whole, colleagues. And I ask that all factions and groups support this important bill. On the basis and in general, colleagues, with proposals on the basis and in general. Please enter the Chamber, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready? 2956 on the basis and in general, my friends. Stop! Based on the base. All right, colleagues, take your seats, we're voting 2956.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u289	I don't need a base, guys!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u290	Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u291	Dear friends, what are you kidding yourself?Oh, my God! On the ground! What's the basis if you don't want to vote for a law that takes property from people who take money from Ukrainian citizens and put it in their pockets?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, pay attention! I can see why he doesn't vote "The Opposition Block." But now I understand why Fatherland doesn't vote because you're just as supportive of the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u292	Friends, based on a total of 2,956. Please support everyone. On the basis and in general, as amended, including Self-Help. Please vote, my friends, on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general, we vote. Proposal: based on and in general. [[17:11:15]] For-187 And this proposal doesn't get votes. Let's go back to the base. Please return to base. Please vote. Return to the vote. Please return to the vote. We're going back. And I'm going to put the proposal on the ground. We're going back. We're going back. So let's get back to this, I'm going to put the proposal on the ground. Vote. Vote, fellows! Please vote. We're going back. I'll put the proposal on the ground. And it can be the consensus that is today. Maybe he'll be in the hall today. [[17:11:52]] For 233 Thank you. Colleagues, 233, decision taken. On the basis of 2956, please vote. On the ground, please vote. 2956. Please vote. [[17:12:09]] For 234 Thanks, guys. 234. Decision taken. And the proposal to adopt this bill. prepare more faithfully for second reading. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote. For a reduced procedure until the second reading. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:12:31]] For 214 Colleagues, under a reduced procedure, is extremely important because it is. That's it. And now let's move on to the question of local elections. Please, the offer is to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. As for the reduced procedure. Please support me, colleagues, prepare for second reading. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:13:01]] For 222 That's better! Four votes is not enough. Please give four votes to prepare for. under the reduced procedure of second reading. Then we'll get to the deadlines! Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please back up, fellows! Short-term preparation procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:13:26]] For 219 Thank you, Your Honor. But look at the point. One minute. Your attention! Your attention! Look. We can make a good law, and the short-term procedure is different in the following two weeks of preparation or a week. I'm asking you for a week because we have a very short deadline to prepare for, more faithfully, the closure of this session. I very much ask you to support this proposal, everyone. Please, 2956 on a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. We'll work hard for a week. Please be supportive. Please vote. For a week, we'll have to work out a good law. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:14:24]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. A week is enough for us to make a fine law. There'll be votes in the room. Thank you, Your Honor. And now we're going to look at it. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u293	Thank you very much to the Parliamentary Coalition for its wise decision to support the government bills required for the country. I hope that during the week, in the shortest terms, the parliamentary coalition will introduce the bills into the second reading, as we need to go to the board of directors of the International Monetary Fund to get the next tranche. The next tranche is also linked to salaries, pensions, and social benefits for the population of Ukraine. Therefore, we need to adopt these laws in our second reading and in general. And I hope that the Parliamentary Coalition feels its responsibility to the country. Thank you. Until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u294	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have here. Look at how talented the Ukrainian Parliament is. We have beautiful voices that can sing the word "election." And I'm going to add local elections to this song. And we have to look at four draft laws now, at least to discuss the electoral system, because the old system is unacceptable. And so you have four draft laws, registration number 2831, 2831-1, 2831-2 and 2831-3. There is a suggestion to start consideration of these issues by a reduced procedure, my friends. But there is one condition that we will not limit our speech to these laws. Do you have a deal? In the discussion. Please proceed with the reduced procedure, please vote. As for consideration of the reduced procedure of these draft laws. All of them under reduced procedure. That's right. As far as I'm concerned, we're all going to have to deal with this procedure together. [[17:17:09]] For-189 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Please, dear fellow Members, begin consideration of matters of the order of the day. We have the head of the profile committee, we'll start with him, he'll explain the logic of the committee meeting. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u295	Please turn on the Ruslan Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u296	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! The point is that we are now considering four alternative bills, and given that the committee's decision yesterday has made one general conclusion on all the bills, we would recommend, on behalf of the Parliament's committee, the next order for consideration of these bills. Allowing the authors, subject to the legislative initiative of all bills, to report a brief outline, the content of each bill, to allow me, on behalf of the committee, to make a statement on the general conclusion, and then to briefly discuss all the bills together accordingly. Thank you. This is a committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u297	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to add a few important things, if we don't decide today to change the electoral system, we will face a serious risk or even guarantee that the local elections will follow the system that Janukovich introduced to usurp power. So I have a huge request to the factions that we be disciplined so that we can now consider all four bills. The procedure is proposed: there are four speakers from each bill, then from the committee, then the discussion, and then we go to the vote. We will consider this bill before the full debate is concluded and before the vote. So I am very much asking and encouraging everyone to stay in the hall for our work. And I invite you, for the first report on Bill 2831, from the author's team Sergio Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u298	Dear colleagues, we want to make a constructive proposal. The author's team of the first bill is withdrawing its draft and we are ready to support the bill with figure 3. We've had a long discussion, and we're asking for only a few basic positions there. First position. By no means will it be possible to raid the local centers of the parties. So all the displacements that are going to take place should be approved by the central authority of the party. Because we've been through this, we've been through a lot of party centers in Ukraine, we know what this was all about, and then we've taken the whole party organization off the register. The other one. We ask that this law have a clear definition of how voting and voting barriers will take place. God forbid, local councils will create 10 or 15 small factions of one or two people who will not be able to make any decisions at all. Therefore, we have a proposal to establish a barrier at least minimal for such a vote. The third offer. That's the proposition that's going to be the next one. If it turns out to be party members or nonparty members who are posted, some facts that distort the name of the party will allow such a person to be removed from registration until the day of the election. On election day you don't have the right to do it, after election day you don't have it, but until election day all of these facts allow you to clear the list. And the last. This is a principle in which each organisation should have only one candidate at the time of nomination. Don't let God let us go back to being technical candidates, solid candidates, who then seem to compete with each other, and have contractual relationships. That's why we supported the bill, which is the author's team, Denisenko and others, it's number three, and we're willing to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u299	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, please, is invited to attend. It's from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u300	In accordance with the Coalition Agreement, honourable national MPs are proposed a bill that provides for the election of rural, rural, and city councils with a population of up to three hundred thousand under a majority majority majority majority majority majority majority electoral system, which, in many years’ experience, provides the best link between elected MPs and elective districts. The bill also proposes a realistic mechanism for proportional elections of city deputies with more than 300,000 councils, and district centres with open electoral lists, allowing voters to have a greater impact on the personal standing of deputies in such councils, as well as limiting opportunities for political speculation. In addition to party lists of candidates, it is also possible to issue and participate in the election of lists of independent candidates, which improves the conditions for securing the right to be elected for nonpolitical voters. Elections of city heads, district centres, and cities with more than 300,000 inhabitants are offered on the basis of absolute or significant, if the leader has preceded the nearest candidate by 20 percent or more, most of which will ensure better selection of candidates for these positions. The election of the rest of the city’s as well as the rural, village, and village heads is offered on the basis of a relative majority in one round. For the election of district and district councillors, a multi-mandatory majority system is proposed with a representation of territories in proportion, but on a direct basis to their population, this will avoid a dominant representation on such boards of deputies of the respective administrative centres. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no perfect electoral system in the world. Any electoral system has its advantages and its disadvantages.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u301	I ask that you allow me to complete and, in principle, I have a request to the rapporteurs to enable them to complete a very important law. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u302	By the way, the honourable colleagues, the parties that won the election and there are six parties in this room, none of them in their election program promised a proportional system with open party lists in the local elections -- that's in the Coalition Agreement that I was talking about. Secondly, Midan's demand and demand, and by the way, the Peter Prashenko Block, were written, "The proportional system with open lists in the elections to the Supreme Council." So you have to decide what system to adopt and what law to vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u303	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Parouya Andri Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u304	I have the honour to present today a bill that has been drafted by the best experts and experts who are in Ukraine from electoral law, as well as consultations with international experts, a bill registered under number 2831-2. What is the logic and purpose of the bill? That he's actually the only one who's proposed, to my deep conviction, fits the concept of open lists. For many years now, each of the political parties has declared the subject of open lists, and we have all made a very generous use of them during our electoral campaigns. But for some reason, when we come to the hall, we forget our promises. Moreover, in this call for a social requirement to secure, we noted in the coalition agreement the introduction of a proportional electoral system with open lists and it was our pre-election promise. The elective open lists, their essence and logic are that we choose not only one political party, that citizens of the electorate have the ability to determine which of the candidates of the political party can represent this political party in local councils or in parliament. There's a key philosophy in this, and there's a key innovation of Law 2831-2 that citizens vote both for the party and also for who from this party can represent them on the local council. So our bill, its key novels, is to introduce a proportional system with open lists in elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea District Councils, city councils with at least 90,000 voters. The electoral system is built to allow the maximum number of votes to be taken into account, and this is very important. Another innovation is the guaranteed representation of women in each ballot box. Our bill also envisions a major system of relative majority in multi-mandatory constituencies, two-four mandates in district, city, where fewer than 90,000 voters, rural and rural councils. This will allow for a more complete representation of the interests of the electorate and a reversal of the principle of where the winner gets everything. Also, the majorist system is an absolute or large majority of the city’s city heads with at least 90,000 voters. The city’s head can only be a candidate who has gained more than 50 percent of voter support or a gap between him and the second voter is more than 20 percent. Otherwise, it's the second round of elections. These are the key innovations that are in our bill. There are some technical concerns that the copyright team can correct between the first and the second readings. These are the amendments that the copyright team is already working on and are ready to fix. But I would stress that this is the work of the best copyright team. It's a law that fits the concept of open lists. And I very much invite all my colleagues today to support, on a basis, the draft (2831-2), which has the greatest social support, which has the greatest expertise and which can most effectively fight against the voting system in the elections. And I would like to urge all the MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u305	I give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy, Denisenko Vadim Igorevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u306	The honourable chairman, honourable national MPs, in preparing this bill, the authors came out of two fundamental points: the law must correspond to the coalition agreement and be simple for both the electorate and the committee. We have very little time before the election, and we have neither the funds nor the time to retrain the commission, and we have a huge and incredibly expensive explanatory work with the electorate. The project is based on the so-called German model. The bill provides for local elections to follow such electoral systems. For rural, village councillors, the majority system is still in place, district, district, city, city councils will be elected for a proportional system. With regard to the election of city heads, the election of city heads in cities where more than 90,000 voters will go in two tours and the city heads will be elected by a majority of the majority, that is, 50 plus one vote. For city heads, where less than 90,000 electorates will be held under a major system of relative majority. The bill also proposes building blocks, political blocks, and moving away from political parties. There is a gap for the parties – 5 percent and 7 – for the party blocks. The city, the district, the area will be divided into districts where the bloc is being nominated. The ballot will be the same, it's a very important moment, the ballot will be the same for all election levels, and it's supposed to include the name of the party and the name of the candidate from the party. The electorate has one vote and votes for both the party and the party candidate. The voter count determines the number of candidates from the parties to which they have come and the candidate who has voted in favour of more voters wins. For each district, the Central Election Commission sets the so-called equal coefficient, since each district has a different number of voters. Once again, I want to emphasize that this model is simple, it corresponds to the Coalition Agreement, and it's understandable to the electorate. That's why I call on everyone to support this model because we need to make choices that won't then raise a huge number of questions for the electorate, and the main thing is that they won't lose a huge number of ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u307	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u308	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, well, first of all, I'd like to say frankly, I want to show you the amount of follints that we're looking at today. I very much hope that each of you has read and today will make a truly conscious and right decision. On my part, I have to say that the committee has found time and opportunity to read all the bills without exception and in detail over several sessions, throughout round tables, during the expert group meeting, we have been able not only to evaluate each of the bills, but also to give our own insight into the way they are, in one way or another, to implement it in real or unrealistic terms, including by considering the short lines that have been left for the organizers of the elections, so that they can first read such a law, secondly, to understand what standards they will have to implement, to study on the side of these norms, and then, during the administration of the electoral process, they have shown how to do this. And you have to understand that this is about, let's say, a devastating level of election organizers that you probably need in order for them to be able to organize elections in a qualitative and professional manner, write a clear, clear, easy-to-implement law that they can already apply actively on the electoral march. I have to tell you that the question when a new edition of any election law is being discussed in the session room is an extremely difficult question. Including today’s discussion, there is no doubt that we will be the result of a lively political debate, as we understand perfectly, despite the fact that we are united in this sessional room, we are natural competitors in elections, and there is no harm in this, that everyone, considering the diversity of authors, wants to see an election system in one way or another, wants certain norms to be reflected in the formulations that are proposed. And what there are four bills is a demonstration that it is extremely difficult to reach a common denominator on the issue of electoral legislation. Another issue is that assistance and committee, and thus the session room, apparently, should come with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted on February 25, 1998, when possible changes to the electoral system were discussed for the first time in Ukraine, for there was a major electoral system until then. And then the Constitutional Court said that the question of the electoral system, the question of the basic components of electoral laws, such as the barrier, such as subjects of the electoral process, i.e. parties, party blocks, perhaps self-reliant parties, such as the threshold of voter appearances, such as the purpose or purpose of cutting or increasing the number of deputies, including whether the law directly requires this norm, or whether it should give it back to the councils as it is now. For example, when it comes to the issue of passing a election barrier, a number of barriers for different subjects, or whether it should be one subject. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm finishing up, yeah, okay, sorry. If you're not interested, I'm done. In view of such a decision by the Constitutional Court, the committee unanimously decided. Since the question of changing the electoral system, electing the electoral system and the main components of the electoral system are, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court, a question of political relevance to be adopted and decided solely by the Supreme Council as a constitutional body, the committee has decided to propose to Parliament by voting to determine in favour of that bill, which it considers appropriate to accept as a basis. For our part, we commit ourselves to working out such a decision on the committee in such a way that the law can be easily and properly implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u309	Thank you for your professional report. Now, dear colleagues, I ask you to sign in: two for, two against. Please log in. It's a recording. Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u310	I give the word to Sergey Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u311	Sergey Sobolev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u312	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the discussion that has taken place has shown for a long time that a bill that has a chance to pass in a session hall is that we will never again hold an election under the so-called mixed model system of 2010, when the entire voting system was actually broken when fair, open elections were broken. And I think that if Parliament, as a result of the procedure that is proposed, is going to vote in favour of a bill that provides for a very clear and transparent procedure for the nomination of candidates, a very clear procedure for voting, a simple, accessible procedure for citizens who will clearly understand that they are voting for the party, but these are not closed lists, and this is a vote for a person anchored in a particular constituency. In fact, each citizen will determine where this person will be placed. And then this is defined technically, without any attempt to push, without any other choice that might be. That's why our faction will support the option offered by Denisenko and other national MPs. Undoubtedly, he needs the key amendments that we have discussed. We need to go back to the question of the duality of the mayors of cities, and I think that in this option, we will be able to make a full choice for the final vote and we will get a new law that will allow honest, clean and transparent selection of those candidates who will represent both the political platform and represent citizens who have the right to choose the best of the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u313	Thank you. Lensky Alexiyyovich gives Igor Popov the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u314	Dear colleagues! During the election campaign, we all promised voters a new quality of the election process, we all promised to hold elections on a proportional system of open lists, we fixed that promise in a coalition agreement for what? Not because it's beautiful, it's called open lists, and we've never had one. In order to choose the new quality of the deputies of the local councils to whom we give much more authority with constitutional reform. That's why we want the local councils to be joined by volunteers who have been doing everything they can for Ukraine's security to help the front to fight community activists to pick up new faces to work the social elevators at last. It's not what could be in the system, it's again a voter bribe, it's Greek again, it's party corruption again with trading venues. There are different systems of open lists, I can lecture for a long time on what modifications. And indeed the Prince correctly said that the choice of the system, the electoral system, is actually a political issue. And for modern social conditions in Ukraine, there are two proposals in Bills 2831-2 and 2831-3. And Oleg Láska's "Radical Party" faction is ready to support both of these bills, so that at least one of them will be the basis for us to carry out electoral reform. The main criterion, how to assess whether these party lists fit society, is that the main choice be made by the electorate, not by the party organization, so that at the very last minute the electorate can influence who becomes the deputy. Similarly, in a coalition agreement, we promised two tours of mayors of large cities. There are rumors that someone has changed things. This "Radical Party" doesn't change election promises to some position or some other requirement. And today, by voting, we will confirm that. I call on all colleagues to show that there is no trade here, that we are actually going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u315	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u316	The new law must be clear and simple to enforce, for the members of the commission and for the electorate. And this is 2831-3 more real because it will ensure that the electoral process is conducted without queues and it will ensure that there won't be too many corrupt ballots because corrupt ballots are a blow to the Ukrainian elections. The main thing for today is to take the basis of at least one of these bills. In the second reading, we're going to include all the better ideas that have been written in other bills and we're going to be able to actually adopt a close-to-the-ideal bill at this session. Today we urge you to use this window of opportunity and vote for the new electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u317	Thank you. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u318	Please give Sergei Anatolyevich Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u319	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! You know, I listened most carefully to all the presentations, the reports, and I tried to get to know all the material. There must be no parliament that would not start its work by changing the rules of the game in the elections. Both local elections and local elections, the election of the Supreme Council. So virtually every political force is trying to somehow prepare and set up some rules for the game. Thus, as reform in the country is going on today, economic reform, political reform, as we now see the picture, we are also trying to change the rules of the electoral system. So they put everyone in a pile with no time, no understanding, no analysis of what's going to happen, how it's going to happen. Let's take it because faster, there's no time. I have the impression, frankly, that those who speak today and propose laws have never held an election, not to mention that local elections take place in villages, villages, when Grandma comes with a bulletin and she understands and sees what she should vote for and how. We are saying that the proportional system, which we have talked about here and promised many, must be legally open, because in any case it is a cat in a bag. Today, what we are being taught is a veiled cat in a bag. The same cat in the bag, just a little bit, let's say so, exposed. We're talking about decentralization. On the other hand, we are referring to the fact that the central party office should be able to take a decision by approval or not. We speak in terms of what the community should determine, who would be its worthy representative. Nevertheless, we give the party's central apparatus the right to clear the lists before the election day. And they will determine who will be first, who will be second, and who will be removed after the election campaign, and so on. Where the role of directly elector is not seen in any of the laws presented. That is why we will not vote for any of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u320	Oleg Medunica gives the word to Germany. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u321	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. The electoral system that is today – the electoral system of Janukovič, Lukash, Portnovi – is a system based on the principles of corruption, machination and administrative resources. That's why the voters put a task ahead of us to change this disgraceful redundancy. And the coalition of factions in the Coalition Treaty has clearly marked the performance of these tasks that we have set before us. The Coalition Agreement clearly states that there should be local elections on open electoral lists, and the election of city heads or so - called mayors should take place in two rounds. To carry out this task, an expert group was set up in the Supreme Council under the leadership of Parliament Speaker Vladimir Groysman, who, together with representatives of society, worked on a single bill that fully and fully meets the requirements of the coalition – open lists and two tours. That's why I call on Parliament to carry out the work of the Coalition Agreement, to support Bill 2831-2 as the one most suited to the requirements, although four bills have been registered, some of which do not meet the requirements of the Coalition Agreement, and we should thank the Fatherland that they have revoked their bill. So I'm asking you to support 2831-2 as the one most suited to the terms of the Coalition Agreement. I remind the MPs that one who does not vote in favour of these bills does not vote in favour of the implementation of the coalition agreement, thus directly sign up for the betrayal of the interests of the electorate, the betrayal of his promises, and has a mandate to form. Today we have to adopt the Law on Open Election Lists and approve two tours. Because we promised this to the Ukrainian people, and promises must be kept. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u322	Please welcome me to Vladimir Litwin's word, then Barresuk. Please turn on the microphone, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u323	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, you know, the people in the countryside are now waiting for only one law. All the promises have been made, all the problems solved, pensions, wages, medicine, higher education, that's the first. Second, if you take an organizational moment, it is not legitimate to consider the bill. Because according to the Rules, if there are more than 100 articles, the law is considered in full procedure. That's for the record for the future. The next aspect. People will be further away from the local authorities, this is a law for the party, not for people and for society. And to the end. We have a request, do not burn or accept this project as a law at the same time. This is again for the protocol. It takes at least two weeks, and there's not a cut in the preparation procedure to figure it out. And then we're going to have to do the drugs in the country, which is the law, and how people are going to read these newsletters. That's absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u324	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, we have so far had a sophisticated electoral system that has developed a state and a village, and it's just flourishing. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that we're on the verge of giving up feudalism today. From the feudalism of the majority, from the feudalism of passive choice, from the feudalism of the block. Today we must finally start building the political system of the country, where the parties themselves take responsibility, then develop the economic and social systems of the country. Because blocks, honourable colleagues, are a sign of feudalism, and yet, God forbid, nicknamed blocks are just a feudal system at all. So, honourable colleagues, in this Parliament, this Parliament has managed to make a working group with the public, although it is not easy, in conjunction with an expert environment. He was in charge of this group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u326	Please give us the opportunity to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u327	Head of the Supreme Council of the country. A truly proposed new electoral system. Some say it's too complicated. You don't believe in Ukrainian people who can read? You don't believe in Ukrainian people who are willing to study their candidates and parties before that? I think you'll all swear here that you believe in these people. That's why there's an offer. Today we must vote in favour of a new, principle-new, electoral system law that will allow the development of the political system of the country, the responsibility of the parties, and then, the economic situation and the social situation, Law 2831-2. The law that will finally bring us to the level of development of European society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u328	Thank you. Now it's Chumak, one minute. Then there's Bondar Victor, one minute. Then there's the Zaprzyk. No, no, it's Chumak, in line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u329	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to abdicate you for which law is now to vote, even though I am most impressed by Law 2831-2 (after the badge), which was actually developed by representatives of civil society along with the working group of Parliament. I'm just afraid that if we're in the day-to-day order, we're looking at four laws, none of them can get the necessary majority. That's why I'm so sorry. 3 laws can't get most of them. So I ask very much by procedure, I very much ask Andrija Volodymyrovich Paris to put a signal vote on the laws that we're going to vote on and whoever wins the majority to vote it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u330	Thank you. Bondar Victor, please. And then there's the valve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u331	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We understand that there's a part of the farce going on in this room because they've quietly dropped four bills and there's hope in some factions that the administration will then keep the old draft of the bill, and then they'll go through the majority districts of those who need it, and they'll get the required number of votes at the village, city, district, district. Another part of the hall hopes that it will break the situation, and by means of a purely proportional system, they will have teams that have never before seen people face to face, and they do not know what real people are, who really vote for a particular person. Desiring to get lists, wanting to get "hand" deputies, who will then push buttons and do whatever they're told. We advocate that there be a majority majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority, that people know who they are choosing and who will be specifically in place to represent these people, and who will know from whom to ask for all the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u332	Thank you so much! Please, Zalitzak. And get ready, Lewchenko, then Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u333	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of a document under which each of the deputies who entered the coalition has signed his own personal signature. And this paper tells black and white that we're going to vote in favour of the majority system for city and village councils, and we're going to put in place a proportional system with open lists when local elections are held at other levels. So today, by voting for any other bill than 2831-2, you're essentially dwindling the price of your own signature. Today, some reporters have talked about how when we introduce a new electoral system, we should think about how we will teach the electoral commission. In fact, we have to think about how we're going to change the election rules in this country, how we're going to take the monopoly out of the party to determine who people are going to vote for in places. That's why I'm aspiring to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u334	20 seconds, please, an opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u335	Thank you. I propose that we all support Bill 2831-2 as one that changes these rules most and corresponds to a coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u336	Thank you very much. Jurko Levchenko one minute and then Krulko. I'm asking you to keep an eye on the sequence. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u337	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, whoever's sitting in representative bodies, in parliament, in shells, in paradises, in towns depends on everything in this country, in this country with you, everything depends on the quality of those deputies. Hence, the question of open electoral lists is a superpractice, perhaps the most important situation today. Each party promised this, by the way, I remind you that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, in its program, wrote about it long before today's fighters first mentioned it tens of years ago. And today I am addressing factions and coalitions that have reached June instead of ending this procedure in January-February, vote for open electoral lists, for any open electoral lists. The details don't matter this time, at least vote for something. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u338	John Krulko and we finish the discussion, and we move on to the vote. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u339	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The electoral system behind open lists is a promise made by all the political parties that join the coalition that went to the parliamentary elections. And voting now for the Local Elections Act is the marker that shows how factions enter the coalition and how they tell how they love citizens, how they keep these promises real here in this session hall. I want to remind you that more than six months before this session hall, no law on local elections was passed by large factions. And the Fatherland faction passed its law, just to start the discussion and to change the corrupt majority system to the local elections, and to adopt the law that we promised people. Today we are in order to unite the session hall and in order for this open list law to be approved, we are taking our own. And the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of the law that really opens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u340	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u341	which opens electoral lists and removes major corruption from the local elections. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u342	Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, there's gonna be a vote. I very much ask all the deputies who find either in the towers or the buffets to enter the hall. As long as the MPs come up with a few words. Dear colleagues! This issue is obviously the most important issue in today's order of the day, the electoral lists have become one of the symbols of parliament renewal and the renewal of Ukrainian power, we have enormous social expectations. If we don't make any decisions today, we're going to let go, I say again, of the criminal system that was proposed for the preservation of the Yanukovich clan, which has absorbed the entire negative and proportional and majority system, and the existing system. We have no right to leave the existing system. We have a decision to make today. So, society, I have a proposal, and it is completely in line with the Rules, first to conduct a rating vote on each of the bills. The signal vote on each bill to then determine which one has the most to support. Was it a coalition decision, or am I supported by Parliamentary colleagues in this position? We're backing it up. That's why I'm asking you to come into the hall, and now we're conducting a voting procedure, a signal, for each of the bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know I'm watching the progress of this law. I've been doing it for four months. So I'm putting the bill on the local elections (number 2831-1) of the authorship of the Ukrainian National Deputy Fedoruk Mikoli Trochymovic. Please vote on those who support this bill. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[17:59:17]] For-88 It's a big contribution. We're moving now, next. I ask your attention and everyone to enter the voting room. I now vote in favour of the draft Local Elections Act (2831-2), where the copyright team is experts and national deputies (2831-2). Whoever supports this bill, please vote, please support, Your Honor. [[18:00:05]] For-182 And now for the final bill, your esteemed colleagues. I'm voting on the draft Local Elections Act (2831-3), authorizing a group of MPs with national deputy Denisenko Vadim Igorovic. Whoever supports this bill, I ask you to vote, please. [[18:00:45]] For 222 Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask Chernenko one minute to speak. Chernenko, please. It was a signal vote, you don't have to go back. We're just following up on trends, society, just trends. Please, one of the authors, Chernenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u343	Dear colleagues, we've just seen what's on the board. The worst thing that can happen today is that if the old law remains, the Lukas-Januković-Portnov law. That's what the Opposition Block was all about. I can't speak for all the drafters of the 2831-2 bill right now, but personally I would like to call on myself to support the third bill, which is three, so that the old law doesn't remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u344	I very much ask you not to scream, not to press the Presidency. I know the subject, I know what I'm doing. Please, we need to make a decision together now. So, your honorary colleagues, we agreed that, according to the signal vote, we would determine which of the laws has the greatest chance of being adopted. One of the authors of Law 2831-2 – Chernenko, one of the best experts in the electoral system in Ukraine, called for the support of Bill 2831-3 in order not to leave the system in place. I want to ask you if it's right. The Self-Help is still holding a brief meeting, but as we say, would it be right if I put the law that gained the highest rating on the ground now? [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you very much to show me respect. It's a very important question for self-help, and it's an opportunity for them to finish their brief meeting. And at that time, I give the word to Oleg Lazko, one minute until Self-Help finishes its meeting. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u345	Oleg Lazko. The Radical Party faction urges all members of parliament to vote on the election bill. It's better than who it is right now. Therefore, we need to unite our efforts, vote, and work hard on the second reading. And, dear fellows, I'm asking you very much. We're about to vote on the election bill, and most of you are going to try to leave this room right now. Please don't do this! Because now, after the election, there are two very important laws for the military: one law that liberates military personnel from paying a half-percent congregation out of pay for the ATO. That's what they're waiting for; the second law that allows families of military personnel to receive subsidies for residential services. These are the laws that our protectors of the country are waiting for. So I'm asking after the Elections Act that we don't split up and vote on these two laws that await hundreds of thousands of families of military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u346	Thank you. I take this opportunity to continue my session for 15 minutes. Mrs. Irina! I'm very sorry, Mrs. Irina. I now invite one of the drafters of the bill, who voted because Chernenko spoke, to invite Fedorok Mikola Trochymovic, author of the bill 2831-1. Please, a line. Then there's Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u347	I also urge you to vote in favour of that law of these two laws, which will win the largest number of votes, we will be in charge of this bill. I support you as an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u348	Thank you. 30 seconds, line. Irina Heratchenko. And then there's Beresuk. 30 seconds, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u349	My fellow Members, I would like to emphasize today the attention of society to how the parliamentary coalition under such an important law, including for peasants, because once we have deregulation and decentralization, it will be the local councils that will play a key role in supporting the lives of the local population, which is now being demonstrated by consensus. Of course we're waiting for our colleagues to decide on Self-Help. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to allow myself to focus your attention on just one more moment. They're in this session room right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u350	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u351	Only 12 percent of women are present in this session room, and this is not normal. And it is in the bill proposed by a group of Europeans that a gender quota is introduced, which is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u352	Hello. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please. I beg of you, Mrs. Irina. Ten seconds, please. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u353	Position. This is the position of Ukrainian deputies today. We propose to introduce this gender quota rule, the Knazević Bill, before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u354	Thank you. Please, Jurko Barezuk, please. Oleg Beresuk, I'm sorry. Oleg Berezuk, please, one minute. And then we vote. Last act, then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u355	Ladies and gentlemen! We lacked the power to change the country's political system, the power to give up elements of the protection of political forces that are not fully mature, the system of trusting people is not enough. But the Self-Help Unit has a dream that the time is coming, and in this room politicians will not be afraid of people, but they will trust them, and only then people will trust these politicians, it's half a measure, but it's better than nothing. And, dearly beloved friends, today we have decided to support your fear, to be with you, to develop this society. And to the second reading, to spoil each other's nerves for the sake of the peace and development of this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u356	Friends! Colleagues! People's deputies! Dear colleagues! We don't need to. Attention! We do not need to spoil or sustain our fears. We need to create a law that allows people to choose personalities, local self-government, not party bosses, not party leaders. And the leaders of public opinion, I say this as a person who three times looked into the eyes at the local level, was elected as a deputy, as a city head. And many of my colleagues here are the city heads, even if they are today members of the Supreme Council, they are still the city's heads. Am I right, colleagues? Kulichenko, Nasalik, Fedoruk, Eutusek, and many others Colleagues, we vote. 2831-3. And including Oleg Berezuk, my colleague at local self-government. 2831-3 is based on my belief that we will make a joint, beautiful, quality project or law on local elections. Vote 2831-3. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, folks. Hooray! [[18:08:46]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. 271. Friends! Offer. By a reduced procedure for preparation, for second reading. We can't make it. Listen carefully. Friends! We can't make it. You should. We can't make it. If we do not vote on the reduced procedure, the old law will remain, and that is unacceptable. So please, my friends, let's prepare and vote in favour of the shorter procedure for preparing for the second reading of the Local Elections Act. Vote! It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Otherwise, let's break the law. Please be supportive. [[18:09:33]] For 242 Decision taken. I call on all factions to vote or support the vote on a committee of quality law for second reading. And also, colleagues, we still have military laws. Listen. We still have military laws, my friends. One minute, Ruslan Knazevitch, as head of the PIC committee, and we are now voting for military laws without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u357	Dear Mr. Head! I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u358	Please don't let anyone go, colleagues. Stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u359	There's a short law number 2052a that applies to the election of national deputies. We are currently in the process of holding an interim election of national deputies, without this law, the Central Election Commission cannot produce ballot papers, protocols, information posters and a whole series of other electoral documents. With that in mind, I ask you to support this bill, in view of your commission, the committee has prepared to refer this bill to the head of the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u360	Ruslan Petrovich, with great respect, but we cannot do that because this is a matter of the Rules. But friends, including the People's Deputies of Ukraine Act, should be on the open list. And we understand happiness. Now that the system will be created in the local elections, it will then be run in elections to the Supreme Council. So I think we need to work very thoroughly to prepare for the second reading of this draft law that we just adopted in the first reading. I want to thank Andrey Volodymyrovich Parbia, he's done a lot of work to find an understanding of the adoption of a common law. And the factions that voted in favour of this law, I thank you, too. Because of the old system, she survived. And we need to work on a new system of open lists, public elections, and no abuse. I'm handing over Andrew Volodymyrovich, First Vice-Speaker, and I'm in consultation with the Venice Commission. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u361	Dear colleagues! It's an important message. These are extremely important and uncontroversial laws. So I'm asking you to spend another 15 minutes, it's about the front and the military. And so that we can vote them quickly and effectively. So the first one. Bill 2980, authored by Oleg Laska. There is a request for a reduced procedure. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure, please. [[18:12:24]] For 197
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u362	Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we go to the report, I want to correct the mistake, my friends. Your attention, please. Today, Ukraine’s national deputies celebrate their birthday. Sergey Euseiovich Dreyuk, let's welcome him! My friend, welcome to your birthday! And Oleg Ivanovich Osuhovski. Welcome, Oleg! Success and well-being! On that day, you are in the Supreme Council Hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u363	Thank you. Please welcome Oleg Lazko to the report. We're listening to the report. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u364	Dear colleagues! I won't talk for long. The bill proposes to free up one and a half percent of the ATO’s military congregation. It's nonsense when the military is holding the army! Therefore, I propose that the committee should vote on the basis as a whole. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u365	Dear colleagues, there is a committee decision on the basis and in general. We're backing it up. The draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation and the acquisition of the military community from the financial security of military personnel and other persons involved in the anti-terrorist operation is put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable association, there was no such thing. Give me 30 seconds, lady. Please. Because I didn't know there was a need for a speech. Please, Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u366	Basically. We supported the committee with a full bill, but with technical law. And the text is written in a slightly different way. Finally, it is now not clear how to identify such individuals. We have indicated that individuals are directly involved in an anti-terror operation for a period of time. The procedure for confirming the statute of the designated persons for the purpose of application, the status of the designated persons with a view to applying the specified tax benefit to the military is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, so that no special registrations are made for such military personnel at this time. Subject to specified.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u367	Thank you. I mean, that's what it's written for us to be with the committee's proposals. And so please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax and Military Assembly Characteristics on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals. 2980. Please vote and support. Please. [[18:15:24]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. 2074a is a similar bill. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:15:52]] For 219 Thank you for your support. Oleg Lazko, head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u368	Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill is very simple. Today, when families of military personnel participating in the ATO are charged with housing and utility subsidies, the salaries of this military officer are included. Roughly speaking, a soldier who receives 3 - 4 thousand dollars of wages, sits in a trench or tank, protects the country, his family is considered secure, and he has no right to maintain the grant. It's nonsense. The bill therefore proposes that the salaries of military personnel participating in the ATO should not be included in the total income of the family that grants housing and utilities subsidies. There is a committee decision to support this bill. Please vote. And these are real laws aimed at the social protection of our heroes, who today risk their lives and health to protect our home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u369	Dear colleagues, a clear and correct bill. I'm asking for a report from Babak Alona Valeriyovn's committee to confirm the committee's decision. Babak Alona Valerievna, so we can follow procedure. Dear Society, 30 seconds won't change anything, but we will follow the Rules, and that will be the right thing to do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for registration number 2074a was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing on June 17, this year. The purpose of the bill is in fact to remove from the monetary income definition the revenues of military personnel who are located directly in the ATO area in order to remove this income from the subsidy to be allocated to the family. We see that the bill at this point, the way it's formulated, does not correspond somewhat to the spirit of the law itself, to which the change is made, is the Housing Services Act. It regulates the relationship between consumers and service providers, and the issue of municipal services. Therefore, making changes regarding the determination of monetary income when a grant is awarded is not exactly the right place for this law. So we're proposing as a committee to adopt a bill as a basis, and we're going to work on it for second reading, actually with such proposals, to determine the issue of housing services for families with military personnel in the ATO area directly. Maybe we should get them out of the rent of residential services at all. Because they are likely to be needed for services, well, 5 percent of their income. Thus, it would be more expensive for the State to administer such subsidies than perhaps freeing them from service at all. So we suggest today that we accept as a basis, work on the second reading, write in the context of this law, and then vote in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-18-m0.u371	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act (No.2074a) as a basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. It's for the front, for the win. Can I have your back, please? [[18:20:02]] For 278 Society, and the last vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please, let's support it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[18:20:24]] For 259. Thank you, fellows of honor! Today was a tough day. We've exhausted the agenda that we agreed on on the Coalition Council this morning. We have adopted extremely important laws today, and those that are needed to cooperate with the IMF, but most importantly, the reform of electoral legislation. I believe that today we have laid the foundation for a serious electoral reform and I want fruitful work so that we can complete it more quickly. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Thank you all for today’s work. See you tomorrow.
