ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please come into the hall, prepare for registration. We'll start our morning session. I want to thank all my fellow national deputies. Despite yesterday’s difficult discussions, we were able to adopt almost all the laws on visa-free treatment yesterday. We still have a few laws to consider. And I think tomorrow we're going to be able to look at these laws, especially the gas rent. I expect that all the necessary consultations will take place today, the committee meeting that will address these issues, and a position will be found that will allow for a successful vote tomorrow. I also think it would be appropriate to consider tomorrow another non-discrimination law on non-discrimination, which is also extremely important to our plans to implement visa-free. A visa-free action plan. Once again, I would like to thank all the public activists, all those who have supported and supported our European integration not only in words, but in real solutions, so that we can carry out all the reform tasks in Ukraine. And as one step, it's getting a visa-free regime. Today is a matter of ratification, also an important day of voting. So I'm asking everyone to prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:04:56]] 318 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council Hall. We're starting our work, dear colleagues. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes today for the national deputies of Ukraine. Everyone, please prepare for the recording, 30 minutes. Please register, your honor, for the performance. Ready? Please register for the performance. Please, Rebirth Party, National Deputy Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u2	Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw your attention to blocking the Supreme Council of Important Anti-Corruption Land Bills. We spent several weeks talking about the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Although everyone understands that since January 1, this moratorium will not be withdrawn, there is no law on the circulation of agricultural land, and according to the Code of Land, this is a prerequisite for the lifting of the moratorium. In order not to violate the interests of the owner of the pies, it is not the moratorium that needs to be continued, but rather that of normal land laws. For seven months now, Bill 2279 cannot be voted on for land leases exclusively at auctions. Even though we were here two months ago, in the session room, we discussed it with you on a full-time basis, all we had to do was press the buttons. Last Thursday he was finally placed in the agenda and the Head of the Supreme Council personally promised to submit the bill to Tuesday. It's Tuesday, though. Instead of showing up for a questionable tradition in the session room, he appeared on Friday when a small number of deputies were usually present in the hall. It's probably just another time to fail. For almost a year, the 1159 draft law does not reach the session hall, which passes over state land outside the population to municipal property. In fact, land decentralization was buried, instead of a week ago, the Economic Policy Committee considered Bill 3002 granting Kabmin the right to transfer state land without a limit of 50 years under the distribution agreements. Think of the situation! Although he should be looked at by an agrarian committee wherever he is not exactly supported. Such a strange decentralization. There is no movement in Parliament, Law 1063, which reduces the minimum wage for citizens. Because in many parts of the world, people have started to give up cities in a mass way. There is no draft law on the deceased inheritance (3006), on the promotion of farming (2028), and this list can be continued indefinitely. It is so impressive that the promised reform of society, the promised decentralization remains on the line, while existing corruption flows are being preserved and new ones are being developed. So I want to go to the Supreme Council, to the heads of the MP factions and groups, let's finally adopt anti-corruption land laws, or all the talk about fighting corruption will stay on paper, and it'll be a blank sound. And I want to address you personally, Volodymyr Borisovich. Volodymyr Borisovich! I want to address you personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u3	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u4	Please explain why, for example, such an important bill (2279) on land auctions, which supports the State Department supporting the State Department, has not been voting for seven months? We discussed it as a full procedure in Parliament, and all that remains is a push of buttons. You can do that on Thursday, for example. Please explain this position, why is there no important anticorruption land bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u5	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u6	I want to address you first thing in the morning, Vladimir Borisovich, explain why we don't vote in Parliament 2279 -- an important anti-corruption bill that we all discussed in full a month ago, and we can't look at it for seven months now, just press the buttons. An explanation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u7	Thank you. Are you ready to finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u8	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u9	Your Honorable National MP, I answer your question. If you were very careful, you would see that this law stands first on Friday. If there is no effective vote on Friday, we will move it to Tuesday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Did you hear me? He's the first one to vote on Friday if he doesn't. The results of the vote, we'll move it to Tuesday. Does that answer your question? How's it going? Oh, no? Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yesterday, really, it was a key day, we did a lot of drafts, and we almost did our homework on visa liberalisation. We have adopted laws that are in line with European Union legislation. On our initiative, significant amendments were introduced, and the Supreme Council unanimously supported almost all of these bills. The moratorium on the sale of agricultural land was extended. Fatherland has developed a road map of the legislative provision of land reform, which we will actively implement and defend. But at the same time, we can't understand that coalition colleagues can't get together and vote for laws that really bother Ukrainian society today. We ask you, how come we didn't pass the People's Tariff Reduction Act? I, my colleagues, traveled 40 circuits, and met with school teachers in Coropa. The average wage is 1 000 400, the utility tariff is 1 000 200. How can you live in such a situation? Please give me an answer. Dear colleagues! Voting for tariff reduction bills is not a political decision, it is primarily a responsibility to the people, to our electorate. Yesterday, I cast my voice consciously against these dragon tariffs set by the government. Dear colleagues, we've been assigned a day's work today. The order of the day is empty. We cannot vote today as a faction for an empty agenda. Today, there are no laws that apply to people, no laws that concern Ukrainian society. Colleagues, the Fatherland faction will not participate in the vote, because there are no laws to reduce the rent because laws to eliminate the tax burden on pensions do not apply to laws that apply directly to each person: wage indexation, pension indexation. We've decided that there will be no vote for the Fatherland faction today. And please, Vladimir Borisovich, so that tomorrow one of the first ones will be appointed by the People’s Tariff Reduction Act. We'll insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u11	Please, instead of Skuratovsky and the Fisherman, six minutes is given to the leader of the Radical Party of the opposition Oleg Láška. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Unfortunately, yesterday did not become as productive in Parliament as it might have been. Of course, the key issue that was considered and adopted yesterday is the Law on the Moratorium for the sale of agricultural land. This is a very important decision of the Supreme Council, although half the time, because the moratorium was extended for only one year. That's not enough. And all those who, with all due respect to colleagues who still think that Ukrainian land is a commodity and it has to be a market for land, obviously these people who say it, they don't understand the Ukrainian soul, they don't know Ukrainian history and they don't see Ukrainian futures. For the Ukrainian land cannot be a commodity under conditions when this land is covered with the blood of millions of Ukrainian citizens who have protected it for many years. And so it's very important that we took this for a year even though we would have termed the so-called land market because there's no market in Ukraine. What could be the market when peasants are beggars? When people are led to begging and give up their land for three cents to sell it to our cousins — Chinese or Arabs. What land market? If one of the sides of this market is beggars who are led to extremes. Therefore, it is vital that the Ukrainian land belongs to the Ukrainian people. And the Radical Party faction insists that everyone has the right to own this land only on lease terms, on lease terms. And if, for example, there are older people who do not have heirs who want to sell land, please sell it to the state, and the state rents it on transparent auctions to those who want to rent it. And this is how we solve the problem of the earth for older people who have no heirs to heal today, which today, for example, we need children to learn or spend on other needs, and they know that they will die, that the earth will remain innocent. Let us settle this question, but in no way can we allow the land to cease to be the property of the Ukrainian people. Like Nadra, according to the Constitution, Nadar belongs to the people of Ukraine. Who do they belong to? And they actually belong to the oligarchs. Why today’s high housing tariffs, utilities? Because high tariffs are derived from corruption, because nadra belongs to oligarchs, because the cost of producing Ukrainian gas is one and a half thousand dollars, and people pay for the gas by 7,000,200 dollars. Even if the import gas is purchased for $230 per thousand cubes, and citizens are paying $330 per thousand cubes for the import gas, that is, in fact, the high tariffs are passed from corruption to abuse, because nothing has changed in the country. Because instead of one oligarch in the presidential office, there is another oligarch, because there were some on Maidan, and there are others who have taken power today. Because when it came to protecting the country, there were volunteers, volunteers, everyone else, and today, for President Dustenk, the closest friends are the regionals. And there are more patriots in prisons than in the days of Dusty than in the days of Yanukovich. Because they tricked people because they used people and forgot them again. Because they came to Parliament, they came into the President's chair, and they spit right away, as my colleague who sits in the Presidium said, "Yeah, spit on those deputies." Do you understand? For the first time in 25 years, I heard such a brilliant expression from the Parliamentary Presidency. That's why we live this way, because all 24 years we've only been fooling people and looking for conspiracy versions, why Zlata Ogniewicz has given her a parliamentary mandate, how much she's been paid for it, who's going in there next. And none of you can understand that Gold, a delicate girl, has a deputy mandate, because it has not endured this stench, which is in this room, it has not endured the lie, it has not endured the betrayal, it has not endured the deception. And it's just fair, unlike most of you who've taken on a mandate like a lice for a fur coat, and under no circumstances will you give up. And she just came out honestly and said, "I can't work in this snakehouse," -- when there's no attention to culture, when there's no attention to spirituality, when there's dog-eating instead of taking care of the country. Here are a couple of so-called officers who told them what an officer's honor is, betrayed the party, betrayed the electorate, sat in carcases, one in one place, the other in another. Take the example of Zlata, an example to you, the so - called officers, of how to do it, how to have honor, conscience, and dignity, not to hold on to that mandate at the cost of treason, the price of bribery, and the price of treason. So back to the subject of tariffs. Question number one. Tell me, today a wood truck costs 4,000 dollars, the vast majority of people in the village get a pension for thousands of dollars, how can a grandmother, a grandfather in a village, pay four pensions for a wood car? Almost 6,000 dollars is worth a ton of coal. How can a person pay 6,000 dollars for a ton of coal? What are you talking to -- I'm talking to government officials who, unfortunately, are not here, the President, the parliamentary majority -- what have you led people to? What are you doing? Why were you elected by authority to turn the entire nation into beggars as a result of your so-called reforms?Oh, my God! You're telling us about the visa-free regime. Who's going to Europe with an average salary of $40 a month? Who's going to go there? A grandmother who's 40 or 50 years old, who's buried because she's got no place to treat, and there's no house to fire on for? Don't fool people! Take either real reforms, or real fight against corruption, or you have to immediately change that power, which just ends the country if we keep our mouths shut and watch them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Noisyuk, and then Illenko. And we gave Fish to others, yes. Now it's Halasyuk and then it's Andrew Illenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u14	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Real European integration is increasing the welfare of Ukrainians, it's overcoming unemployment, it's ensuring European productivity and European citizens' incomes. There is no other recipe to do this. There's no money in the budget, there's an investor to be involved. In order for an investor to be involved: first, to carry out genuine reforms, radical ones that will ensure the rule of law in the country, are fully relaunched by the judicial, prosecutorial and public service systems, for lawlessness. Without the rule of law, an investor will not come without attractive taxes. Second ingredient. There is a need to provide favourable conditions for investors to come to Ukraine. Therefore, we must urgently consider those economic laws that have accumulated in the Supreme Council today. This is a radical liberalisation of the tax system (3153), which will allow a substantial reduction of tax pressure on Ukrainian entrepreneurs, to bring economies out of the shadows. These are the bills that stand tomorrow, on the day of economic development, I'm going to count just a few of them. And, dear fellows, I would like to urge you, regardless of your plans -- who has the election, who has the other questions -- come tomorrow and vote for the economic laws. It's not a matter of politics, it's a question of the survival of the state, it's a success of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian state. Among the laws that stand for tomorrow are bills: on a state-private partnership that will allow tens of billions of dollars to be involved in Ukrainian infrastructure, there is no other way to invest in Ukraine. These are laws on industrial parks that will allow foreign investment, European investment, to build factories here, to create jobs here, produce ready-made products and pay taxes here. This is an export credit agency bill for the first time in history in Ukraine to put in place a support system for a Ukrainian exporter, a small producer who sells its products abroad. It should be supported, not by political declarations and slogans, but by money support, as is done in the European Union, as is done in the United States. This is a series of sectoral bills to support the woodworking, woodworking, metallurgy support, and to support the electricity sector in Ukraine. We are obliged to adopt these economic laws tomorrow in order to take the first step towards the restoration of Ukraine’s economy. The main priority is jobs, investment participation, export incentives. All of this will allow for higher wages, decent European pensions, social protection of the population. There is no other way to Ukraine. This is business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Illenko Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u16	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Yesterday, at Donetsk Airport, in Pisca, during a battle with Russian invaders, a 93rd Storm Company fighter, Uriya Cherkashina, one of the leaders of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, leader of the Sokol Youth Organization, was seriously injured. He is in a difficult condition today. Thankfully, doctors have managed to stabilize his condition, and he is now able to start a full - time treatment. Because at first the situation was very difficult because of a very severe injury. I would like to say that such events should sober us up seriously. Because the so - called armistice that we are told about, the so - called peace that we hear so much about today revolves around such events. The war, unfortunately, continues. Unfortunately, the fighting continues. And we see that those who have gone to our land with this terror, with this war, are not going to go from there. What choices, what occupied territories, can we talk about? What kind of peace in these conditions, now that they keep shooting at our heroes, can we talk? Stop lying to the Ukrainians, stop lying to yourself. It is very important to understand that we continue to take the right position, particularly when we vote in Parliament. I would also like to say about yesterday's situation in Parliament that we saw around the tariffs. You know, it's a matter of concern to everyone today without excluding Ukrainians throughout Ukraine. People in despair and they expect Parliament, from those whom they have chosen, from their representatives to take real steps to at least make their situation a little easier. But there are no such steps. Instead, we see when the government of political bankruptcy comes and starts telling what and how to do and how to live. A government that has one percent support today in the country. An illegal government. The Prime Minister's party did not take part in the election! By all European standards, then, the government resigns immediately. This government cannot today be legitimate in the state. He cannot rule Ukraine today. He has no support in society. It is therefore necessary today for Parliament, if Parliament wants to continue to have any legitimacy in the eyes of Ukrainian society, to take responsibility today. We should take steps that will really bring Ukraine out of the crisis and that will allow us today to at least make our citizens' lives a little easier. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Missy Vladimir Yuriovich. Miss Vladimir present in the hall? None. Next up, Sergey Efremovich, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Guzu Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u19	Please, Igor Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear friends! I represent 19 constituency in Volina. I would like to make a statement to the head of the State Department and the Ministry of Health. The thing is, as a major MP this year, I went around all 72 rural councils of my constituency. There's a lot of problems. One of the key things that people talk about is that, unfortunately, now they're talking. Field obstetricians who had previously been able to sell some of the most necessary medications for, especially the older generation of people living in the village, in connection with certain normative acts that have been proven, have stopped doing so today. And an old grandmother and grandpa in a village have to go to the district center to buy the usual medicine themselves. I understand that we want to collect more taxes. I understand that we want to fill the budget. But people just, excuse me for saying that, they're crying, they're kneeling, and they're saying I can't follow Waldo to the district center. And unfortunately, we have a company called Volin Farmpostac, which for a number of reasons closes its pharmacies, so the drugstore network is shrinking. I'm asking a lot of questions, I don't know what the situation and fate is going to be for the minister of the state service, but let's round up the table, let's get the medics and the committee present here and let's work this out. I understand taxation, but people have to. I'm not saying there's a list of drugs in there that stand under a graph or there's a drug component, there's no questions. But, excuse me, some cowgirl, a valedictorian and so forth for the older man, she should buy it from herself. And we understand that the qualification of the wreath. The field office of obstetricians allows them to understand and sell this medicinal product, these drugs according to the population. So please let us make sure that the state goes to the people. No, we're thinking about how to raise a penny. We don't collect that penny. And not enough problems right now, I think, for everyone who's a major MP here in the rural area with people coming in, with routes, that's a huge problem, so little of a problem with buying basic medicine. Therefore, please call on the Ministry of Health, the State Department, to gather its consilium in a timely manner, and to provide some effective clarification to move this process out of place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u21	Matthew's Sergey. To pass on the word to Paul. Appropriately, Paul takes off his speech through one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, before you speak of anything, I would like to introduce you to specific figures. Let's take the usual apartment 58 square meters. Thus, the cost of heating services per year in Krivo Roga will be almost 8,000 bracelets, with tariffs even higher in many cities, other cities of Ukraine, and people will pay even more. Think of it: 8,000 bracelets in 58 square meters! Go and explain these figures to the pensioners living in this apartment or to the family of budget workers. You say: subsidies. But not everyone gets them. So I'm going to give you specific numbers. More than 80,000 families have been assigned subsidies in the Horn of Curve. Compared to last year, the number of poachers who receive them has tripled. But what does that say? This suggests the impoverishment of the Ukrainian people. But this is one side of the medals, the other side is that real money due to mass pay is not given to thermal utilities, water supply and others. So the thermal utilities, water, electricity are sitting without money, i.e. they do not have the means to normally isolate pipes, repairs, and implement energy efficiency programmes. In simple language, established tariffs drive people into poverty and simply kill the living system of Ukrainian housing and utility. The most interesting thing is that the Government is at an incredible rate raising the cost of living for people, while actively attempting to shift responsibility for the regions and local self-government. Instead, the Government has a duty to reform all social protection systems as soon as possible, to fully equip the housing fund with heat counters, thus preventing energy-supply companies from transferring their inefficiency to the population. In addition, tariffs and subsidies from the local budget should be revised to cover the differences in tariffs. Perhaps we have forgotten, but the primary function of the State is to protect its citizens, not to rob them of the credit of the International Monetary Fund. The State is now under an obligation to apply all possible mechanisms to reduce the tariffs on heating, hot water and other services. Instead, you fail to vote down the tariffs on gas, which was yesterday, as far as people are concerned. Dear colleagues! Finally, listen to the common people of Ukraine and the common sense. We will not even claim to be the author of the proposals that have been made, but take them as a basis and accept them. That's what the country needs, that's what its inhabitants need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Zubik, Rebirth Party. Mr. Volodymyr? There is no Mr. Vladimir in the hall. Next up is Krivenko Victor, please go to the rostrum. And this will be the last performance, the final performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u24	I hope this isn't my last performance. Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I would like all of us to welcome together the distinguished Tereshchenk Michel, who, yesterday, finally received his certification from the Gluhov military head, is a fantastic story for Ukraine when a citizen of the European Union gave up citizenship and became mayor of the city of Gluhova. I hope that we will all support it in all its beginnings. It's supposed to be a model city right on the border with Russia. The other one. Today, we have a superprinciple of opposition in Santa. And I would ask all the MPs who have the opportunity to come to the election day on November 15th and to keep as close to control as possible so that there are no forgeries. Because there's one of Mr. Djatlov's candidates, he says he's now a opposing man, although before that, eight years in power, he's been the head of the district council for four years. By manipulating the population, by saying that it will halve tariffs, once again at the local level people are engaged in populism and national politics, it's trying to gain power in the city, and it's going to be very negative for Santa Claus, in my personal opinion. So I urge everyone to come. Third. I ask the government to urgently introduce the draft State Budget Act 2016. Because we cannot allow ourselves to repeat last year's situation without an agreed tax reform. Let them import on an existing tax base. We need to have a professional discussion with the ministries, with the regions, so that we can understand the cost. Tax reform only speeds up the revenue side, then it will be easier to adjust accordingly, and it will be a work forecasting process. Third. Ministry of Health. I want to thank Oleg Lazko Hospital, Hanni Hopko, Oksani Korczynski for actually biting out on the so-called budget night of half a billion dollars into the hospital of the future, the OHMATDIT Hospital. And today we see that only in November did all the bureaucratic procedures, the wires, the tenders; someone tried to break these tenders, and only now did they approach the conclusion of the contract. We have agreed with the Prime Minister that a first-class international company will be involved to control these expenses, and we believe it will be involved. The other one. We arranged for a meeting at the Ministry of Health, which involves professional associations of builders to control the use of these funds by the public. And for today, all the responsibility lies with the Cabinet of Ministers in this hospital. The third is a question supported by all the members of the Supreme Council. You saw the action where women, members of the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional association, were speaking, where we said 200 million dollars were available to fight breast cancer. 7.5,000 Ukrainians die a year from this disease — more than in the ATO. The first time used in Ukraine has taken a decisive step to buy diagnostic equipment that will allow it to be treated in the first and second stages and diagnosed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u26	At an early stage of diagnosis, 90 percent of the treatment is successful. Again, we see that the contracts are not yet concluded. I call on the Ministry of Health and the government to make every effort to ensure that these programs are implemented this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we go to the agenda, I'd like to announce the two nouns that we have in this room. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Valery Ishchenka, we welcome him as well as Viacheslav Constantinowski. [[Congrats]] Welcome to Mr. Viacheslav’s birthday. [[Applause]] And according to the order of the day, let's move on to ratification issues. The first is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. I'm asking my respectable colleagues to come into the hall. Our work begins. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of this issue for a reduced procedure. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm proposing a simplified procedure for Bill 0067. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[10:38:53]] For 122 They say they didn't make it. I'm asking you to be more careful. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, get ready for the vote. We're waiting, waiting for them to arrive. Please come into the hall. Yes, prepared, please, I'm renouncing the motion to vote on the reduced procedure for ratification of draft Law No. 0067. Please take part in the vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:40:09]] For-151 Thank you. Thank you for your support. So I invite you to report to Deputy Chief of Security, Mr. Bazuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u28	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, is submitting a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The specified international agreement was signed on 26 November 2012 in Abu Dhabi with the aim of creating a legal framework for mutual protection of classified information, which will be exchanged between the two states in the course of cooperation. In view of the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice, this international agreement, in accordance with articles 2, 32 of the Ukrainian State Secrets Act and article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In connection with this Ukrainian Security Service, a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access has been redrafted. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. According to the legal expertise of the draft Act, the Ministry of Justice concluded that it was consistent with the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. By order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since September 30, 2015, No. 1026, an international treaty has been recommitted for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The need for this agreement to be valid is relevant, especially in view of the revitalization of the bilateral one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u29	How much time do you have to finish? How long? Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u30	In space and in the field of military and technical cooperation, according to the proposal of the Ministry of Defense, the state-owned concert Ucroborinprom. In view of the above, I would like to support this bill, which will allow the completion of the internal political, internal and national procedures necessary for the entry into force of the said international treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u31	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. And it unanimously recommends that Parliament support this bill as a whole. The ratification of the agreement is based on the need for legal principles to protect information with limited access that will be exchanged between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates in the course of cooperation. Unlike most of the international information security treaties, the text of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on mutual protection of information with limited access has been provided with the phrase "for service use". The principled position of the United Arab Emirates Government is based on the fact that, according to United Arab Emirates legislation, all documents related to the protection of classified information are subject to access restrictions. Marking the text of the contract by a charter does not conflict with international law and the practice of making international treaties. For help. The same charter of access restrictions was granted to the Intergovernmental Treaty on the Mutual Protection of Secret Information with the State of Israel and also with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management has no objection to the ratification of the Agreement. Please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? Then I ask all the deputies to come into the hall from the towers. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that there will be an immediate vote so that MPs will come into the hall and take up jobs. With your permission, I'll put you to a vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (No.0067). Whoever supports this ratification please vote. The vote is a go. Please vote. [[10:46:28]] For 219 I see they're not all there. Once again, I ask the people’s deputies to work in the workplace. I ask you to concentrate, invite the deputies into the hall, and prepare for the vote. So I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (No.0067) as a whole. I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole. Please vote in total 0067. Please vote, we decide. [[10:47:35]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have a new bill that is extremely important, and I very much ask the MPs to stay in the hall, and I ask you to support the proposal that the bill should be considered for a reduced procedure. Yeah? So the next bill, 2669-d, is rereading the first reading, and I ask my colleagues to support the consideration of the simplified procedure. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:48:23]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality by Irina Igorovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u34	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! In fact, we should be proud of the fact that from time to time we have laws that help to develop culture, because it is not the only bread. Accordingly, the draft Law 2669-d has been completed. He was directed to further work, as was the government bill last time before the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality. He had been worked out, taken into account all the observations, corrections, all the correct and meaningful positions that had been proposed and by fellow MPs from various factions, and public organizations, and the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Social Policy. The bill therefore proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act on Culture, Theatres and Theatre Activities, Libraries and Library Affairs, Museums and Museums Act, and the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. It is proposed that culture managers be appointed to the post by contracting them for a term of five years as a result of a competitive procedure. In the context of the competitive selection of the Head of the State Municipal Cultural Institution, the bill ensures the principles of openness, publicity and transparency of the competition procedure. The independence and non-involvement of a competitive commission is vital to ensuring these principles. The draft law clearly defines the order of formation of this commission, composition and authority, and the mechanism for selecting candidates for the position of heads of the state or municipal cultural institution. We propose that, as the Committee on Culture on which this bill was proposed to support, the draft law be supplemented by technical law under the transcript. Complement the draft law with paragraph 6 of this substance. Amend the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. To complete part of the first article 36, paragraph 9, with the following meaning: "on the basis provided for by other laws of Ukraine." It's for this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u35	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u36	This is so that this law can work. Please, this law awaits the entire progressive, cultural society of Ukraine. Please support it as a basis, in general, as a basis and as a whole. I have to tell you that there are obviously a number of cultural leaders who have been running them for decades.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u37	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u38	And which, of course, are based on that change. I have to go talk to them. This law also allows them to be appointed leaders of cultural institutions, only on transparent, open and competitive principles. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I'm asking my colleagues to make a recording: two for, two against, for discussion. Please sign in. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, "The Block of Petra Dustenka", conveys the word to Tomenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, right now, I'm going to say that the ideologically and worldwidely given bill is correct because I think that in the creative environment, in the humanitarian sphere, there is a need for change, there is competition, there is a need for competition, and there is a need for fresh personnel. Instead, I would like to make one conservative warning, which refers to a limitation on the term of office. I don't think anyone's gonna tell me that I don't know what a rural library is, a college, a school or a school. The projects of my foundation are practically in every rural library, every rural school, or every country school. And for my community service, I protected not one library director, starting with the city of Kiev, where the library would no longer exist and the shopping center would already be there. So I think if we're making a total two-term limit, then I see the abuse here. Let me give you an example. In Kiev, I am fighting for the Central City Children's Library in the centre of Kiev, which Czernovicki wanted to privatize, and then Popov wanted to privatize our new, almost innocuous power, too, also wants to privatize in Kiev. Now, what's going to happen here? They will hold a competition, set up a man, and privatize him. Because the senior group that protects the library and protects the children resists it. I have a second question. At the level of the district theaters, do we have a line on high-level artists who could make the theater competitive? So I think, by keeping the principle of competition, openness, competition, presentation of programs, with regard to the limit of two terms in office, I would think. I would rather vote in favour of the two terms of the National Deputies of the Supreme Council, but I wonder if it is necessary to change the heads of libraries who are fighting and protecting their territory or directors of the theaters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u41	Thank you. The author of the bill will give his opinion in closing remarks on this proposal. And now there's Olena Masorina, the People's Front. Please turn on the Olenza microphone. Yeah, it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u42	Victor Yelensky please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a breakthrough law by setting competitive rules for cultural leaders; by inviting them to present their programs for the management of these institutions, we are completely changing the management system of cultural institutions. This is a very big step from the council, which has dominated our country's cultural institutions. These are very important changes, transformations that we talked about very much during the discussion at the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I would like to stress in particular that the cultural community, the leaders of cultural institutions, not all of them, of course, but those who are progressive thinkers and those who are interested in cultural development are supporting, not just supporting, but waiting for this law. Of course, there are some inaccuracies, some rustiness. And so I propose to support, and the People's Front faction, I propose to support this bill in the first reading and to establish, to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u44	Thank you. So all those who wanted out of the MPs were speaking. I will give the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko, who is present at our meeting, Vice Prime Minister. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, this bill is the development of a bill that was introduced by the government in May. But then, as a result of the alternative, no one got the necessary amount, and now, in fact, it's a joint product of Parliament and Government. There have been many discussions on this subject on the profile committee, and now it has become a look that is generally acceptable to all. There are a few questions that still need to be addressed. It's a good thing that we have a detailed procedure for the competition now, and it's a good thing that all the criteria are out. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Ministry of Culture has been conducting all the appointments since we introduced the government bill, and now, only after the competitions, but the details of the competition procedure are certainly on time. There is one aspect that causes tension in the cultural environment: it is an aspect related to the position of the Director-General. Now, in most theaters and other groups, musical groups have a position or a director general (tier) artistic director, or a separate director general and a separate artistic director. The current editorial foresees that only, more specifically, the selection of the Director - General is available, and he is already hiring an artistic director. And in artistic, artistic, theatrical circles, there's a fear that in that case, the creative component, the artistic leader, will be strictly subject to the financial and economic composition. So, I think it's good to agree to the proposal to adopt in the first reading, the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading, and that's the right thing to do in order to get the director-general, the artistic director, or bring them together, and then there won't be any questions at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u46	Perhaps Mrs. Irina will be able to make her suggestions, her presentation, and her adjustments, as well as the offer made by Mikola Tomenko and made by Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please turn on the microphone for the performance, please, Irina Gorge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! I thank all those who participated in the discussion of this bill, in particular, I would like to address a colleague from the Peter Poshenko Block, whose MPs were also co-authors of the original law. For rural libraries. The law does not extend to rural libraries, because there is a rule here that up to 3,000 people live in the population, this competitive procedure is not applied. Besides, I'd like to talk to you about the minister's comment. The fact that this law does not narrow down the rights of creative workers in any way. Because the person who's running the theater is doing his program as theater manager, not as manager, I don't know, an isolation plant. So it's obvious that it must be a person who understands, and it's stipulated in the law, on the issue of culture. Besides, I'm surprised to hear from the officials that they don't own or know something that's long since existed in Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u48	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u49	This is called the delimitation of authority, which is very clear, specifically distinguishes the authority of the director of the theater and the artistic director. So anyway, I've said it more than once, there's a group of people who have been sitting on budget for decades and they don't want to give up. Guys, let's make progress. A huge number of cultural professional managers in Ukraine who are ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u50	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u51	who are willing to make a humane and innovative breakthrough in our institutions of culture. Please, let's not stop, let's not roll back! I very much ask you to support this bill as a whole. If there's any rustling, we'll fix it because of the repairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that there will be a vote now. And Mrs. Irina, I'm going to put it on the ground first, and then, if there's no objection in the hall, I'm going to put the bill in general. Signal, yes, of course. The MPs are entering the hall. As my colleagues come in, I'm putting the bill 2669-d to the vote. Please prepare for the signal vote, and please vote. Please vote. Signal vote 2669. Vote. [[11:02:22]] For 234 Thank you. Please come in, who hasn't made it into the hall yet. I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the introduction of a contractual form of cultural work and a competitive procedure for the appointment of a head of the state or municipal cultural institution, number 2669-d. First, the vote on the basis of the amendment that Irina Overturned from the rostrum below the stenogram. On the basis of who supports this question, please vote. Please. [[11:03:14]] For 236 Decision taken. Is there no objection to the whole bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Then I put to the vote the whole draft Law number 2669-d. Whoever supports the proposal to vote on it as a whole, please vote on 2669-d. Please. [[11:03:50]] For-174 The decision is not made. And then I propose that we vote in favour of a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading. So please prepare for the vote. And I propose to vote on this bill in favour of a reduced procedure for the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:04:33]] For 217 I guess we just didn't make it. Please take up jobs. I'm going to put this motion to a vote right now, please be more careful. I'm once again proposing to consider Bill 2669-d on a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote. Please support the proposal, we vote. [[11:05:14]] For 224 We didn't make it. Be more careful, fellow believers, just be careful. Thank you, but I recommend working at the workplace. I'm once again proposing a 2669-d discussion with a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote, vote, vote. [[11:05:54]] For 228 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. And let's move on to the next item in the agenda. We now have a discussion to make decisions on the issues under discussion, which is that the issue is already under discussion, and it only needs a vote. It's a bill on housing services. Responsible is the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing of Babak Alona Valeriyovna. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for Alona Babak so she can say she's ready to vote. Please turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u53	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Now we ask all of you to support the committee's decision, which has already been reported in this room, that the draft Housing and Utilities Act, which was prepared by the government and considered on our profile committee as early as December 2014, should now be sent for re-reading to the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. I call on all the deputies, even those who say they won't vote because the program is empty today. Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill for all Ukrainians, everyone: both business and citizen. It's a law that regulates the relationship between consumers of all utilities, housing services and their providers. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u54	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u55	Get him ready on the committee to move into this room. Because people are looking forward to the full implementation of the rules of law that came into force in July of this year, 417: the specificities of the exercise of property rights in multi-family buildings -- waiting for the terms of contracts for managers, waiting for the settlement of counters and the counting of salaries, the conclusion of agreements to take into account the quality of housing services. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision today and send it to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote. And I would like to point out that we are not making a decision right now, but we are sending this bill back to the committee for re-reading so that we can work on it and put it into a ready, balanced bill. It's not a decision on the bill, it's a re-read. I ask you to support the head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and the decision of the Committee as a whole. I would like to vote in advance on the decision to refer to the committee for the re-reading of the draft Housing Services Act (No. 1581). Signal vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. For processing. It's a signal vote. [[11:09:46]] For 219 I'm asking you more carefully. Go into the hall and prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? Come into the hall, take jobs? Once again, I propose that the draft Housing and Utilities Act (No. 1581) be sent to the committee for further development. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:10:44]] For 231 Decision taken. The next one, too, is to make a decision on the issues under discussion. The issue that has already been discussed is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the area of the protection of Ukraine's natural and natural resources. But I'm asking for a brief piece of information, Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Ednak Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please. Mikoli Tomenko, please pass the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that we discussed this bill, which my colleague, the committee secretary, Ostap Ednak reported, and colleague Sergey Sobolev reported. (Mr. Borislav, please sit down, because the people don't see me in the picture, it's kind of uncomfortable.) So the bill was signed by such living classics as Sobolev Sergey, Drevijanko Yuri, Hmil Mikhailo, Ednak Ostap, Lunchenko Valérie, Dirov Anatoly, Semerak Ostap, Parasuk Vladimir, Timoshenko Julia, and me. In two words, it looks like this. We have a disaster with the President's decrees on the creation of biosphere reserves. We have created a decree, a decree accepted, and for example, a woodchopper or someone else does not transfer this land and say that you pay us money, we hand over this land. We have an ennumerable amount of land that's de facto safe, not de facto, that's where the forest is cut down. That's why I'm asking for a floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u58	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u59	Which is de jure reserved, and where in fact there is total, even worse logging than under normal conditions, because it's considered safe, no one checks. Therefore, there is a request to support us. It's about first reading. There was a lot of comments, we'll fix them. And so the request to mobilize. With such a powerful team of authors, the committee will work quickly and we will bring order to the natural-intelligence fund. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This question has already been discussed, so we are not starting a discussion right now, we're just making a decision. I'm asking the deputies to take up jobs. I ask the faction secretariat and the Supreme Council to report that a vote is about to take place. First, I'm going to put in a normal signal vote. Therefore, the proposal to adopt a draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to improve legislation in the area of the protection of Ukraine's natural resources) (2311). Signal vote. Please vote. [[11:14:04]] For 227 So please be careful not to move away from jobs. I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to improve legislation in the area of the protection of the Ukrainian natural-law foundation) (number 2311), as a basis. Based on the base. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[11:14:41]] For 233 Decision taken. I welcome the copyright team and wish you a successful second reading. Let's go to First Reading. The first bill, 2706. This is a draft of the Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Economic Operators in the Areas of Heating, Centralized Water Supply, and Water Management. Is there an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure? Yes, the proposal is from the rapporteur to consider the simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. We're voting for a reduced procedure, please. [[11:15:35]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Babak Alon Valeriyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies! The 2706 registration bill was initiated by all members of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing as early as April this year. And he was waiting for his turn to vote today very, very painfully. Why? Because we have a nation that owes more than 5 billion dollars to the companies. This is the amount of debt that the state owes to the housing and utility companies that came into existence is the debt of the enterprises themselves to the suppliers of electricity and gas. This debt from electricity and gas is subject to daily fines. These fines are then applied to the court. In addition, 10 percent of the amount of debt and fines is collected by the court. So the government's debt to enterprises becomes debt, which is more than 20 percent of the principal amount of debt. This bill proposes to establish a moratorium on fines for electricity and gas to water companies if the State does not compensate for the difference in tariffs. As soon as the enterprise receives compensation from the State, this moratorium ceases, and the enterprise should be accounted for by electricity and gas without. Well, according to normal rules with all the fines. This bill awaits all businesses and authorities of local self - government. We're too long.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u62	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u63	do not delay voting. He agrees with the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction. Moreover, at our committee meeting literally last week, we decided to complement it with the positions that were necessary to continue the operation of the law that had previously been followed by the restructuring of the debt of heat-supply enterprises before Naftogaz Ukraine, which were calculated for gas under the 423 Law and no longer had debt. But because of the absence of a typical gas debt restructuring contract that the government had not been able to prepare in time, these companies lost the ability to restructure their debts. So we're going to read more proposals from the committee to vote this bill on the basis of the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u64	Thank you. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Housing of Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to focus on the fact that we are considering an extremely important bill today. We have a lot of information going on about fair and unfair housing and utility tariffs. There's a lot of discussion about paying housing bills and the ability of the population to pay them. So I'm very much asking everyone to look closely and support the committee's proposal on the first reading and on the basis of this bill to be adopted. It will allow you to balance the system's calculations in the field of housing and utilities and impose moratoriums on the payment of fines for housing and utility services in the event that the thermal utility, the water supply undertaking, does not compensate for the difference in tariffs, which is not compensated by the State, is not compensated by local budgets. Now I want to read a few points for the stenographer that we have to take into account. First. Continue until 1 July 2016 the possibility to restructure the debt to heat-generating and heat-generating organizations for natural gas consumed, which was created from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, provided that such organizations do not have debt for gas consumed by 1 January 2014 on the basis of a standard contract approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. To establish that the debt created by July 1, 2015 is outstanding, other fines are fined financial sanctions, as well as the inflation index and 3 percent of annual introductions, cancelled and cancelled in the absence of heat-generating, heat-supplying entities for the consumption of gas by January 1, 2014. Third. During the operation of a moratorium on electrical power operators, it is not possible to charge, not to collect, or to withdraw, a fine, a fine, a penny, or other fines. Four. Set to 1 July.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u67	By July 1, 2016, the implementation is subject to mandatory suspension in the event of withdrawal from heat-generating or heat-supply organisations of debt for natural gas consumed between January 1, 2014 and July 1, 2015. And the fifth. Solve the issue of the write-off of the management entities that provide services to the population from the central supply of cold water and centralized water supply, accounting for instability, and other penalties.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u68	Please, 30 more seconds, or just let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u69	Other fines, as well as an inflation index of 3 percent of the annual electricity debt, resulting from non-reimbursable subsidies from the State budget, the difference between approved prices, tariffs and economically sound costs for the production or non-application of public budget funding for the provision of benefits and housing subsidies to the population, the compensation of additional costs for municipal services in terms of increased prices and tariffs for services. Dear colleagues! Once again, I ask you to support this bill, it will enable you to deal with a situation of calculation that is extremely complex in the area of housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Before we begin the discussion, I would like to say that we now have Ilkka Kanerva present on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Work meetings are being held, and we welcome you to the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! According to the bill, are there willing to participate in the discussion? Yes. Then please sign in: two for, two for against, please. There are those who would like to speak. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich, Petra Dustenka Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u71	I would like to speak on behalf of all those who are willing to vote in favour of this bill today and ask the Supreme Council Hall, despite the fact that we do not have enough disciplined national deputies today who are present and working with other national deputies to support this proposal. Indeed, this is one of the most important bills being considered during this week. Unfortunately, last night, separate factions broke down, I think, a revolutionary bill for the lives of ordinary Ukrainians. And I would now like to ask the Fatherland faction to make an exception and vote in favour of this bill, because it is extremely important for local self-government, for ordinary, ordinary Ukrainians. Next. Similarly, with the adoption of this bill, it is a serious responsibility to ensure that our state's housing and utility economy is not bankrupted by the current government and the bulks of the Prime Minister. Individual enterprises that run heat, and just like a number of the most important strategic enterprises in the national economy, they were later unable to privatise part of the vital sector of the national economy -- these enterprises. I'm calling on the Ukrainian National Deputies and the Chairman to invite the National Deputies to the Hall right now and make a signal vote. And in case we don't have the necessary actual support from the people's deputies today, tomorrow we're done talking about this and tomorrow we're putting to the vote this legislative initiative, because it's, let me stress once again, vital to the national economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u72	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. Oh, Solovay, I'm sorry. Solovay, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u73	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! Today, we have a situation where the State owes the utility industry an amount of 8 billion dollars in difference in tariffs. This has led to the fact that utilities, in turn, have not been able to calculate on time with electricity or gas companies, and today they are, in fact, creditors of these companies. And if this is not resolved, we can come up with a situation where utilities that are in the local de facto self-government will eventually become private property of gas and electricity companies. What's more, I want to remind you that we have adopted an appropriate bill that allows NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to take over this utility property. And that's why I'm addressing all the people's deputies, not to let that happen, because you have to understand that if utilities, which are still islands of municipal property, go into private property, then completely citizens will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u74	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u75	Then the citizens will be deprived of any right to adequate housing services. So I'm going to the hall to support this bill in the first reading and to complete it, the standards that cause contradictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u76	Thank you. Yvchenko, Fatherland. Turn the mic on again to Yvchenkov, it's a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u77	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you. Colleagues, you know, we're looking at, really, an important bill also on dormitories, a bill on housing services. But I want to remind you, yesterday we were addressing the biggest faction that, in principle, put down the vote on tariff cuts. We're talking about 40 districts, I personally, people talk about one thing over and over again: when can you finally decide to cut rent prices, cut gas prices, and end prices and cut tariffs? We today have stated our unequivocal position: we do not take part in the vote, even though the laws that are being considered today are. and not just today, every day, they really need a vote and a vote of a consolidated one. Today's consultation, I think from tomorrow we'll find the power to vote the law for lowering the rent. Let's cut the tariffs and move on together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we can argue endlessly if we translate a professionally important issue into a political plane and into political upheaval. I have a request to the deputies: if you really support this bill, do everything we can to vote on it, not the other way around. There will be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, prepare for the vote. Please inform me that there will be a vote. And I'm voting on draft Law 2706 as a basis for a signal vote. Please take part in the vote, please vote. [[11:30:12]] For-174 [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'm going to re-vote. And I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Did you come into the hall, prepare for the vote? Once again, I would like to stress the signal vote on Bill 2706 as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. This is a vote, please. [[11:31:18]] For 190 Please, let's change our minds from the rostrum to the minute. Alona, to the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u79	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that the bill that we cannot now vote on is very, very serious. Because now the heating season is going on, we have, you know, what accounts are being put out, what payments are being paid. And in view of the fact that the state did not deal with the heat suppliers, with utilities owned by all citizens, the difference between tariffs, we began to have catastrophic problems with the counting of pennies and fines. If we do not adopt this law, it will be a very serious problem that will prevent people from wintering and getting normal services. We're getting a financial imbalance on the state's fault. Therefore, we need to vote on this bill in order to protect not only those who supply water but also all those who use it. I ask the chairman to return everyone to the hall and put them to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, once again, I invite everyone to the hall. And I want to say, ten times before each vote, I invite MPs into the hall. And I have a very big request to those who are calling me to invite you into the hall: with the same zeal in the faction congregations, go to the deputies for discipline so that we do not have shame in front of the Ukrainians for the work that is often in our hall. Alona Babak from the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u81	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to explain to you what the problem is. The point is, those fines that are due because of the lack of compensation differing from the tariffs do not have a source of payment. The tariff does not include fines in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The state does not grant a subsidy for payment. If you say so, who will pay? Local budgets. Imagine today, local deputies have to make a decision to include in local budgets fines on government debts. You see, this is absurd! We have to stop this until the state counts. I'm asking you, for second reading, if you see problems, we're working on it, but on the ground. Now the communtech is coming, the whole Ukraine is meeting, all the utilities are meeting today at the Brovarsky Avenue, the water fountains, the greenhouses, they're waiting for our decision, they're waiting for us to do something. I'm asking you very much, let's support and vote for the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we have an entire discussion. We had a discussion before, we had a record of two for, two for, against, and now there's no stage of discussion. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to take up your jobs and get ready for the signal vote again. Have they invited the heads of the factions of the deputies? So I'm voting on draft Law 2706 as a basis. Signal vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. Signal vote. [[11:35:23]] For 207 Please come into the hall. Let's consult, we have four willing speakers. Let's go while they're in the hall, let's give it a minute. Please, Oleg Berezuk, head of the faction. And then I'll give you my word in turn. Three more. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u83	Deputies! Well, it's a totally obvious discrimination against people and the state itself. I can't understand how we can ask ourselves to vote on what is correcting the error of the state, the obvious thing that is hurting millions of people. How can we ask and beg the State itself to correct its own mistakes? It's discrimination, it's contempt for people and for businesses that serve people, it's a threat to Ukrainian integrity. Let us unite and correct the mistake that millions of people are waiting for us to correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u84	Vinnik, one minute. Then Barna, then Sold. You've done it before.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Any major knows about this problem since the local self-governance of his district. We had no heat in the city of Nova Kahovka, 184th district, for a week in schools, because of this problem. Because there was really no compensation for the tariffs, the difference in tariffs between those sometimes unwarranted economic tariffs set by local self - government and those subsidies to cover it. The ignition has been turned off. Now it's working again, because given that the appropriate emergency commission made the right decision, the gas was turned on. But if we do not correct this situation today, we will have far worse consequences tomorrow. Therefore, it is imperative that we vote today. And all majors have to support this situation because it's the same situation in every district. Let's get together at least in the first reading. Although I think we could vote in general, because we don't have time to decide. Let's party and vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u86	Please, Barna. One minute. And sold later, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u87	Friends! When we passed a bill to the previous government, which allowed us to accept fines to utilities, we didn't take one thing into account. Although I voted then, I also voted against it. In fact, the energy sector, the utility sector, is very attractive in the energy industry, so many people are looking at it. And so there's no exception to the fact that they're not artificially subsidized from the State budget, or that they're holding the state budget to compensate for the utility costs on the foreign exchange tariffs, and thus, they're artificially bankrupt, and then they're taking the wrong people into their own hands. So I'm asking you to correct this mistake and not allow it to be accepted for the mistakes of the state. Please vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! I have already called a complete list of those who raised their hand. We cannot have endless conversations about this matter. Sold, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! I now address those who did not vote and those who abstained. You and I voted in favour of the bill and passed the Naftogaz Act. Then we protected Naftogaz and made it an opportunity to bankrupt utilities. I now ask those who do not join the coalition to vote in favour of this bill. And let's save the city from bankruptcy. Vote, please. It's not for the coalition, it's not for the power, it's for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Matvienkov, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u91	Matvienkov, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! The question is really very difficult and very serious and more confusing even than it seems at first sight. The overall structure of tariff formation is a major problem that exists in the State today. What are we seeing today with this bill that we are proposing? We are invited to allow it between the two actors in this process. Why don't we vote for this bill? We're here to make justice work for the whole chain. We are opposed to putting the delta of tariffs on the final consumer, on the specific recipient, that is, on the individual, on the citizen. Because that's what happens after all. When overhead costs of one entity are charged to the overhead of another and so on and so on. And when they start playing with fines. Why is it possible today to cut off heat and electricity from a subject's decision, not through a court decision? But they're disconnecting the end line. And in order for him to get involved, we have to go, we have to pay. Let us therefore address this issue in an integrated manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u92	Thank you. Cooper, one minute. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u93	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear people of Ukraine! Look what's going on in the session room right now. Who doesn't know that they don't make important laws on Wednesday? What Is Behind the Ratification of Some Contracts? And there's an important law that'll simplify the lives of ordinary people, just for a little while? And this is not a matter of coalition or opposition. It's a question of the people of Ukraine, survival of it! And those MPs who are now claiming and calling, let's vote, so bring in 30 percent of the factions that are not voting for this law! Then tell people how you feel about the people. Shame! We have to go to work. We've got to vote, do our jobs, and we've got to stand on that Maidan, and now we're standing on a "tariff stage" under the Kabmin, who nobody sees and tells anyone. So let's hide the party flags a little bit and vote for people, so that they can at least get a little bit thinner, but also pay for tariffs and utility bills. I urge everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u94	I am convinced that after such a fiery performance, Oleg Láska’s Radical Party will vote in full favour of the bill. And that gives him a chance to pass in the hall. I call on all deputies to take up jobs. And once again, I'm going to put the first signal vote. Draft Law No. 2706, signal vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:42:53]] For 205 Well, what's the matter, company? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we've already finished the discussion -- once. Then they did it again, then they did it again, and obviously the fourth time we're going to have a hard time starting the discussion. Colleagues, once again, the signal vote, and then we'll get in shape. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm betting again on the signal vote. If it doesn't work, we'll move on to the vote on the table. Please vote on Bill 2706. Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. Please vote. Signal vote. [[11:44:02]] For 215 They're still entering the House of Deputies. Dear colleagues, we have consulted with the faction leaders, and we believe that the bill is under discussion, but we will make decisions, we will make sure, tomorrow after the question discussed. Thank you. All right, we agreed on that. We will not have a fifth discussion on the same subject. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. Bill, draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (number 1076). There are suggestions from the authors that we vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please support a reduced procedure. Please 1076, we vote. [[11:45:48]] For-163 Decision taken. The vice-chairman of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Housing, Andry Vasilovich, please, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u95	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, Bill 1076 is aimed at a substantial and comprehensive improvement of legal regulation at the legislative level of problematic issues to ensure the realization of the housing rights of residents. The need for adoption of the bill is due to difficulties in implementing the rightful residents of hostels given to them by the Ukrainian Housing and Housing Act (Law No. 500) the right to privatize housing and non-residential housing in hostels in which they actually live on legal grounds for more than five years. The bill was developed by a working group of innkeepers created by the committee, with representatives of all interested ministries and authorities, all of the Ukrainian public organizations involved. The group held one and a half dozen meetings, the bill is a harmonized and balanced document prepared with consideration, in particular professional and public discussions, the main provisions of other bills on the subject: No. 1076, the previous version of the National Deputy of Vasyunika, No. 1382, the People's Deputy of Yatzenka, 2589, the People's Deputies of Drozdik, Drauk and the large author group, projects, bills of other national deputies; recommendations of legal professionals on housing and civil law. The purpose of the bill is to correct disagreements, lay down legislative acts and fill the gaps in legal regulation regarding the implementation of housing rights of the residents of the hostels in part of a clearer definition of the relevant terms and concepts, and the conditions and arrangements for the transfer to the communal property of the hostels, which were included in the statutory capitals of the shareholders, created in the process of privatization and corporateization. The bill, inter alia, proposes to make substantial precise changes to the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (No. 500), as well as to the Point of Amendment to the Housing Code, the Civil Code, the Ukrainian Laws on the Transfer of National and Municipal Property Rights and the Act on the Za za zastava. The committee notes that the implementation of the bill after its adoption will not directly require additional funds from state and local budgets. The Special Privatization Monitoring Commission expressed its support for speeding up the review and adoption of Bill 1076. On September 14, the working group decided to invite the committee to recommend that it be accepted in the first reading and that it should be further developed between the first and the second readings. The committee made the same decision, so the decision: first, to take the basis, secondly, to entrust the committee with the task of drafting the prescribed bill, taking into account the individual provisions of other alternative bills. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two for against, for discussion. Honorable colleagues, because faction records are recorded by only one person. And it can press 50, maybe 100, and one person can write it down. Jismar Yuri Vasilovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u97	I give the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support a bill that allows residents to have this right to housing. Although housing is said very loudly, who doesn't live in hostels, he doesn't understand what it is when it's on the corridor, there's one sanvusol, there's one kitchen together. I spent many years with my mother and sister, we lived in dormitories in Barva, they were called barracks, they're still down to this day. So every person who has lived in those dormitories for decades has certainly the right to privatize this apartment and room in the dormitory. Today, owners of businesses who want to sell everything in the world, including groupies that are on the balance of these businesses, are throwing people out on the street, and with adults are throwing children away, taking away their living opportunities, even in such a shelter. Every person should have the right to his own place, just like the residents of the hostels, just like now forced refugees, displaced people from our Donbass, from Luhansk, from Donetsk, who for crazy money take down apartments somewhere in Kiev and elsewhere, instead of the state introducing a whole range of housing programs for displaced persons. How many children’s kindergartens, schools, and hospitals have been abandoned in Ukraine Put a little money in there and give people the opportunity to winter over, not the basements to hide somewhere, waiting for the attack or the Russian Towns, or because they don't have the funds to live in a normal home. So I'm asking you to support this bill, it's extremely important for the residents of the hostels who are being denied hope today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Ms. Sergey Volodymyrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Chicken Maxim, town of Dnipropetrovsk. Today and now hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are waiting for the adoption of this Law by breath. His acceptance is expected in both Dnipropetrovsk and Kharkiv and Odessa, in all the cities of Ukraine. Since 2009, there has been a law in place in our country to ensure the realization of the rights of residents, but it has long been known to everyone that this law has never worked fully, in life, in practice, it really "procedures". Because of the gaps in legal regulation, people who are forced to live in hostels cannot realize their even basic but vital housing rights. Many people are simply held hostage because their housing in the hostel was illegally included in the statutory funds of farm societies created as a result of privatization. People did not even know that they had been privatized with their dormitories. The law included a ban on evicting people from hostels, but in fact, private owners in practice create terrible, intolerable, sometimes even inhuman living conditions, that people are forced to leave their homes. The local council’s decision to accept hostels for communal property may not be implemented for years. We need to correct this situation immediately. And I'm going to ask my colleagues from the profile committee: let's prepare this law for second reading at the same time as the new edition of the Law on State-wide Target Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities, because the current edition is not only morally outdated, but it's already lost its term this year. At the same time, let us meditate and perhaps introduce criminal responsibility for violating the rights of residents of hostels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u102	Thank you. Anointed Andrew, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u103	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u104	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, I would like to give you an example of one of the hostels in Kiev in Preslavina, 34. It's a dormitory that's been under the state-owned firm "Our House" for over three years. And the Sanitation Manager is taking all measures to prevent the house from being transferred to Kyiv’s municipal property by manipulating its official position. This is a strange situation: the city authorities are now ready to accept the house, the Ministry of Economics is ready today, and they are contributing to all sorts of positive actions in order to pass this house on. I've had more than a few complaints, hundreds of people come to me and ask: "Dear deputies, help us make sure our hostel is transferred to the municipal property of Kiev." Why am I talking about this? The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. But we want to see the mechanism for the transfer of hostels to local self - government bodies developed by the second reading in article 14. It's a pretty important question, dear friends, let's take care of those families that hundreds of thousands of people can't privatize their rooms in dormitories where they've been living legally for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, Solovay. Wait a minute, there's two more people who want to make a statement I can see. Let's do two more shows and that's it. That's exactly what we have until we break up, and we don't say a word anymore. Two more performances: Now – Solovay, then – Humil, Vasjunik. Yeah? And one more thing, Dudenkov. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u106	Solovay, 89th constituency. First of all, I want to thank Andrija Shinkovic for his great work, and this is the bill that was just adopted as a result of a consensus and a discussion with a large number of public organizations interested in resolving this issue. I want to explain in two words what this is about. The point is that we have two categories of people who live in hostels. One category of people who live in hostels belonging to communal property; and the other category of people who live in hostels belonging to and in statutory stock holdings. And if the first category of people has the right to live and to privatize this residence, the second category of people is, unfortunately, completely deprived of these rights. This bill essentially balances the rights of each other in part of the use and privatization of this property. And, of course, the need to adopt this bill has matured for a long time. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u107	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u108	That's why I'm addressing all my colleagues, considering that this bill is extremely discussed, to accept it in the first reading and to join between the first and second readings to correct it in order to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u109	Thank you. Debenkov, one minute. Then it's Yemen. Then there's Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u110	Thank you. Debenkov, opposition block faction. Dear colleagues, it is indeed, and of the few legislative initiatives that are being considered at the plenary meeting today, which are directly related to the protection of the rights of ordinary citizens, who unfortunately do not have adequate housing in the form of a separate apartment and do not have a separate living area, but are forced to live in hostels. The opposition bloc will accordingly take a consistent position on this issue and defend the relevant category of rights, the socially unprotected category of rights of Ukrainian citizens, and calls for the draft bill to be voted on as a basis. In doing so, I note that the draft law is not entirely complex, 1076, since other bills are being considered: 1382, 2283, 2589, 2434. And there are also very positive things about the protection of the rights of the occupants. And we also propose to vote, we will support these initiatives and we will join in drafting the bill on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u111	Thank you. I'm just asking for a quick word and a reply. Because now the MPs are going to split up, and we're just not going to vote on the law. It's... it's... Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor as the deputy mayor of Kiev, to whom this problem is a systemic one. Because we have so many innkeepers, hostages of the fact that the owners of these hostels are constantly changing, some of them are bankrupt, and these people are in an uncertain state with their young children and their families. So we all now understand that this bill has to be adopted. I have a huge request to the smallest faction of our Parliament that doesn't vote today, think about these people, these are specific people who have life and hope. Give them the right to realize their hope for their own home. Please vote, I call upon you the 300,000 inhabitants of my district and the millions of other districts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u113	Igor Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this bill. Work on the bill has been under way since 2012. In addition to this bill were the leaders of the association of hostels, the residents of the hostels themselves, and many national deputies from various factions. The fact is, people are practically living under the threat of permanent eviction. So this bill allows them to privatize these few unfortunate, sorry, square meters of housing. I am very much asking to vote in favour of this important social bill. And I call on the Fatherland faction to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please ask the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, please come to the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that a vote is about to take place. First, I put the bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (No.1076) on the basis of a signal vote. Signal vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Signal vote. Please. [[12:01:40]] For 234 Thank you. And now I'm asking you to come into the hall, who hasn't come in yet. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to clarify the scope of application and to improve individual provisions for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities and to ensure the realization of housing rights by the legal residents of hostels) (number 1076). Please vote base 1076. Please vote. [[12:02:30]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Under the Rules, I declare a break of 30 minutes to 12:35. At 12:35, we continue to work in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, break time is over. Please come into the hall and continue our difficult but important work. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin now, please. As long as the MPs come in, I'll read the announcement as it is. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Ribczynski Evgen Juriovich into the "Will of the People" Group. And, dear fellows, I invite the deputies to the hall. The next bill in the agenda is a bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act 1382. The author’s team asks to consider the bill for a reduced procedure. There is also a principled position to be considered in full procedure. But I think the hall will come up with this difficult, complicated, controversial question. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the motion to consider Bill 1382 as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:40:08]] For-68 The decision is not made. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u117	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, well, unfortunately, we have a bad tradition on Wednesday that there are no people in the hall, but we still have to look at the laws. The law that I propose will introduce and extend article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests" to all hostels that have been introduced into the statutory fund of enterprises that have been privatized. And today, unfortunately, in these hostels, people live as slaves as fortifications. I can only say, for example, in the town of Umani, where there are majors, there are some of these dormitories where people are forced to work at a business just to keep them from being evicted. What's more, they're usually relied on by all the out-of-date, anti-monopoly legislation, housing services and even commercial objects such as restaurants, cafes, and these residents are also paying, they're being burdened. So, really, we can discuss, say that this is going to conflict with some constitutional principles. But when I was working on this law, it came to me that people were all entitled to housing. So when there was such a robbery in the early '90s, in the early 2000s, privatization, of course, the state didn't perform its functions in front of people, because there was no way that companies that were state-owned could be set up in a charter fund. So I'm proposing that we actually give permission to the residents without the permission of the owners of the hostel to privatize them, to transfer them to the communal property of these hostels. And I would very much like to support everyone, because this is a really important bill to protect people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u118	Thank you very much. Is there a question for the reporter? There are no questions for the reporter. I invite you to the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Construction and Urban Affairs, and of the residential-communal household of Šinkovic Andrija Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u119	Mr. Chairman, honourable people's deputies, the bill proposes to privatize housing in residential homes by citizens who live on legal grounds, to extend the provisions of the law to dormitories that have been included in statutory capitals of societies, organizations created in the process of privatization, corporations, being in private property, and such societies have been alienated or otherwise transferred to statutory capitals of other legal persons. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine said that in the amended Bill 1076, which we have adopted with you, the honourable colleagues, in the first reading of the previous issue, yes, the improvement of legislation on the implementation of housing rights of residents, including their right to privatize housing in hostels, is being considered more fully than in Bill 1382, which we are currently considering. The working group of hostels reviewed the bill and invited the committee to recognize it in such a way that the individual positions of which can be included in Bill 1076. For the transcript, I would like to point out that the author of Law 1382, which we are currently considering, is the national deputy Yatzenko, co-author of Bill 1076 worked out. On October 8, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing reviewed Bill 1382, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of its consideration in the first reading to take into account individual situations when preparing for the second reading of Bill No. 1076, drafted. In view of the above, please support the committee’s recommendation, put to the vote, and vote in favour of the committee’s draft decision. Thank you. Draft decision: To reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask your permission that if there are not enough votes in the room to make a decision, we will discuss these laws that are there, and then in the section on 'decision-making after what has been discussed' we will be able to put them on the day when the votes are cast. There's no objection in the hall at all? There's a objection, but we're going after the discussion, and then we're going to talk about this thing. Please, Pinzenik, one minute. Pinzenic, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u121	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! It's absolutely obvious the fate of this law and why we should put the agenda to the next reading if we can just put it to the vote at the request of the authors, as they put it, and then take it off the table. Well, obviously he's not gonna make it. There's a committee proposal to reject and let's put it to a vote, but we have a vote, not a vote, but a vote for support. The law is not accepted and the law is rejected, and it will not tire out the next days.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u122	Mr. Victor, I totally agree. I'm not just talking about the bill, I'm talking about the logic of our work before the second hour. Now we have the next chapter -- these are the factions. So I'm asking you to sign up for the factions, please. Maxim, Petar Dust Block, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u123	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I fully support the offer of colleague Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich, because half an hour ago we passed a very important law of 1076 in the first reading. We agreed that we would consider it in the second reading in the near future. The last laws that remain are 1382, 2283, 2589 and 2434a, and they also regulate the particular issue that we have already violated in this session room. That's why, quite appropriately, it's suggested that these draft laws be removed and that Law 1076, which has been completed for the second reading, should be put into the session hall, because this law is really very important for those people who are forced to live in dormitories. They are now held hostage by these private owners, to whom, statutory capitals, these hostels have reached the statutory funds. That's why I'm proposing, in short procedure, that Law 1076 prepare for the second reading and remove this issue essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u124	Thank you. Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u125	Dear friends! The point is that Law 1076 is fundamentally different from the law that I passed. Because I suggest that the hostels can be privatized without the owner's consent today. And Law 1076 offers the owner's consent, which is in principle, that is to say, propaganda. So, of course, "Party, Rebirth" supports 1382. But. But we're certainly going to make the amendments in 1076, where we're going to insist that the hostels should be handed over to people, not to those who once took them in, these hostels. That's why you don't need the owner's consent, based on the Constitution, the right to housing. So in principle, we hope for the support of the hall, and if not, we will make adjustments and then work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u126	We'll assume that that was a definite and final word. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to do so, then please register to speak with the deputies. Please record to speak with the MPs. Paul Kishkar, please. Bezbay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I fully support the Deputy Yatzenka, who is very right in the fact that no one is giving up on privatization today. But the main reason is that today the owner cannot transfer or refuse to transfer the dormitory. Why? Because today he needs to communicate. Either he doesn't have the money for it or he doesn't want to put it away. Therefore, I am very much asking you to take all the cleverest things that are in Bill 1382, and to submit, of course, to Bill 1076. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u128	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u129	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Please give the floor to my colleague Alexander Drozdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, well, I think that each of these bills needs to be supported on a basis, because each one has, in fact, substantial mechanisms to solve this problem. And they're different, and they're complementary. The thing is, really, the mechanisms that are offered both in this project and in the following are allowing them to return illegally incorporated into the statutory fund of hostel societies. I'm reminding you that all the hostels under the legislation that was in force at the time, it's both the Housing Code and the privatization of state property, they actually referred to public property and social property and were involved if they were. included in the statutory funds of enterprises, all illegally. Because, at that time, legislation had banned such inclusions, such objects. And, in fact, with the help of, including the regional branches of the Fund, the holding companies have illegally incorporated these objects into their statutory funds. What happened? There was a violation, first of all, of the property rights of the state, and of the property rights of those who lived there, well, their constitutional right to housing. That's why now and those projects are trying, which is not in 1076, unfortunately, we're trying to restore the violated rights of the state and the citizens that took place at the time of privatization. In no way does this violate the constitutional rights of ownership, as some smart very legalists put it, saying that without the consent of the owner of the transfer, it is a violation of his right. Not in any way. The transfer takes place without consent because we are restoring the violated right of state property, a violation of the constitutional right of citizens. So I'm asking you to support all of these projects, taking into account their standards, to work on a second reading, a common normal project that would solve a complex issue. Unfortunately, 1076 does not solve this issue. The mechanism laid down in article 14,1076 of the bill does not allow for the restoration of a fully violated right of citizens and of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u131	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u132	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Today we really need to restore justice that is unfortunately violated today. So a lot of people who live in dormitories turn to me, especially in my district, and most of them are people who work in the raspberries, in the cologne, and then there's a lot of despair, and today's owners of the appropriate agrofirms have put the hostels on balance. People live, cannot repair, and do not have, in fact, whom to address the problem. So I think that's the problem we need to solve. But, dear colleagues, today, unfortunately, there are very few people in the hall. And we probably don't vote for a lot of important decisions. And so there's another suggestion: to support the chairman's proposal, to listen and to discuss a number of our bills in general, which are important enough, in particular, the Order on the Recognition of the Genocide of the Crimean Tatar People and the Project have decided to honor the participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES, and to vote as previously discussed in the plenary when the full House of People's Deputies will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u134	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. I want to say that, as co-author of the legislative initiative of Law 1076, which we adopted in the first reading, it's a rather complex, coherent bill prepared by the working group, our committee, including, in particular, the professional public experts who helped us do this. The implementation of this bill will allow for the protection of the legitimate rights of the residents of hostels, including those who, for independent reasons, are forced to live in hostels included in the statutory capitals of societies created during the mass privatization of the 1990s. And for today, we have 654 dormitories in our country. That's why Bill 1076 will allow a substantial reduction in social tension. But if we're talking about the bill that we're currently considering, number 1382, I'm going to propose that we take into account its individual positions and that we work on the second reading right now in Bill 1076. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u135	Thank you. Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich, Peter Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u136	Dear national deputies, well, above all, we should not deceive the residents of the hostels. And, you know, protecting them is a call, probably for all of us here, there's no doubt about it. But. And I agree with you that the illegal privatization of enterprises, which included the hostels, was, in fact, not just illegal from the point of view of common sense; it was criminal. And we've been on the committee a lot of times, and we've seen 9-story 2-story dormitories, where over 500 people live, privatize them for a penny. For today's money, they're $30,000 plus-minus -- that's the entire nine-floor 2-floor suite in good condition. And, of course, that privatization was illegal. But we have to have, we have no precedent for breaking the privatisation agreement through court. If we had such a precedent, of course we would have gone the other way. At the same time, we are well aware that without the consent of the owner, we are violating part four and fifth of article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which no one can be wrongly deprived of property rights. We're going to Europe, ladies and gentlemen! And we have, in fact, a little bit of a different understanding. And separately, the colleague said, so those enterprises that voluntarily give in to the dormitories, they give in and they are accepted by local self-government authorities, they're accepted by city councils. There is such a precedent in Winnitz, and there are numerous precedents. We need to propose an effective mechanism to adopt the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Guests in order to really protect their rights. And I urge everyone to join the working group and, between the first and second readings of Bill 1076, work and include all possible mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u137	Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u138	I'll just add. Now, the previous speaker said that if we transmit without consent to the owners we are allegedly violating article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that is not quite so. And I think that the previous speaker is a little bit wrong, because -- once again, I said that, according to the legislation that was in force at the time of privatization, it was a state property, the inclusion in the charter funds of the hostels was prohibited. In fact, state ownership of these properties was violated at the time. That's why we're now proposing to restore the violated right, we're not thereby violating property rights, because this right has been obtained illegally. That is, there is no violation of the Constitution in any way. Because by raising standards at the time of the current and Housing Code and the Law on Privatization of State Property, where clearly stated, article 3 states that in effect the law does not extend to the privatization of public housing facilities, including housing units. That's why we should manipulate both the Constitution and the law when we're talking about some kind of violation of property rights. I realize that there is a lack of interest in many, including in this room, who, at the time, illegally contributed to the statutory funds in privatizing their businesses those properties, namely, dormitories, of course, their unwillingness to return them, including to municipal property, to the property of local self - government, so that all people who live there for 15-20 years will finally be entitled to a legal right to reside there, including property rights. So I think that all the projects that are presented on this subject should take the best proposals from them, get involved in preparing for the second reading, and we have this transmission mechanism really to make one that would actually allow for the rights of citizens to be restored. Regrettably, in article 14, 1076, in addition to other articles, others are not poorly prescribed, the mechanism prescribed in article 14 does not allow for the full restoration of such a right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Solowy Yuri Igorovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u140	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to point out the fact that the bill adopted in the first reading of 1076 is a very serious step forward, because there has been virtually no successful attempt to resolve this issue in Parliament over the last five years. As far as my colleagues' suggestions are concerned, let's face it, there are legitimate proposals in a number of these bills that will have to be taken into account in the drafting of this bill between the first and the second readings. And of course, it's not going to be easy because we understand that, including in this room, there are people who own businesses that own these hostels. But at the same time, it is far more important to resolve the issues and problems of people living in these hostels. I fully agree with a colleague from the People's Front, which, of course, if we appeal to legislation, the inclusion of these hostels in the statutory fund was totally illegal and was contrary to existing legislation at the time. And today, our task is to correct these norms, and in the second reading, to pass a bill that will balance all positions of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u141	Thank you. And the last performance, Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich, is to present the position of Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u142	Obviously, we have to make two bills of quality to address these extremely complex issues. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the law enforcement agencies, the power structures, to those extremely serious violations of individual urban heads, particularly the city’s head Poltava and those who serve his commercial, commercial interests in alienating the real estate that had the status of dormitories in its time. Second, all kinds of abuse. I have been sent a complete package of appropriate statements for appropriate confirmations, appeals by ordinary, ordinary citizens, the inhabitants of Poltava, who are guilty of crimes and crimes committed by the city’s head. I hope that 15 of the current month's numbers will peak in the polls, and they will by no means vote for the city's head, which has essentially led corruption and has become an idol of corruption throughout the country. And we will be able, without hindrance, to examine objectively the whole complex, false, destructive to the spiritual capital of Ukraine, the city of Poltava, the way that this man has gone in his lap, I'll say, man. The other one. Honourable Chairman of the factions! Today, unfortunately, we do not have the physical ability to make decisions that are important to ordinary citizens in this room because of the lack of votes, due to the low level of discipline of visits by members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, this is the way to bankruptcy of the parliamentary body, the way to bankruptcy throughout the legislative branch. And in time, and this position is shared by millions of Ukrainians, temporary parliamentary elections. I would very much like the simple Ukrainians to draw conclusions from the work of the deputies of all previous calls. And here we're the only ones that have to conclude that the main fundamental is that we need to bring new political forces to the Ukrainian Parliament, which will work under new European standards, to be guided by the values and ideals behind which the first and second Midan stood. And I would like to take this opportunity to look to the leadership of all factions. Let's put in some important legislation that's failed today that won't freeze ordinary Ukrainian citizens. No threats to the People's Front, threats to murder me personally for my principled position, for what we form.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would now like to discuss logic with you. No, there won't be any more discussion, boys. Attention, hall! Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to consult you. Dear colleagues, so we adopted the bill in the first reading. Kaplan, don't destabilize the hall. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you ready for the dialogue, Barreza? Are you ready to hear me? We can do it now. I can demand respect for the hall and for our work. Barna. I'm asking you to calm down. We're in the law business. I want to consult with you right now. We have one option: to reject all of the following bills, because one of the basics has already been adopted as a basis. Another is to discuss them and to translate them into another day. What do you think is more appropriate in this situation? Let's exchange thoughts. Please, Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we can't pass five laws that are the subject of a single settlement. Imagine that five laws will prepare for the second reading. They will have conflicting standards that will conflict with one another. I do not deny that other laws may have standards that should be taken into account for preparing for the second reading, but on the basis of one law can be adopted. We have already adopted this law. Therefore, we can only vote on one point: to adopt this law as a basis, because there may be some interference in the Rules, because the Rules do not allow the rules that were not in the first reading. Then perhaps by assigning individual decisions to take into account the standards of all other laws that the committee considers to be worthy or to be MPs in the basic law that we have already voted for. But we can't create an echard by taking two or more laws as the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u145	Thank you for your position. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. If we are now, I agree, to make a decision, then we will not know to the end what we are and how we vote. So I have an offer, I have an offer, I have an offer to listen to the committee's decision and a number of bills that are next so that we can make a decision on them, according to the committee's position, and the committee's position is to reject them. But in order for us to be able to effectively discuss these four bills, it will be important for us in the next three bills to be able to vote on the reduced procedure. So let's focus and now let's make a decision on all four bills. So now I'm going to put bill 1382 to the vote. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. We discussed it in full procedure. I'll remind you that the committee's proposal is to take into account when working on the second reading, but it's actually a rejection of the proposal. And so if the bill doesn't get the right number of votes, it's going to be rejected. Yeah? Well, what do you say? So I am voting under the Rules on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (No. 1382). Whoever supports this bill, the proposal, please vote. [[13:10:02]] For 116 The decision is not taken. The law is considered to be repudiated so that we do not waste time. Dear colleagues! Now three bills are actually identical. If we go through a long procedure, we won't be able to just look at them. So, with your permission, I'm going to ask you to consider the reduced procedure, and I'm asking the whole room to support me together and the group, for a more effective work. According to the agenda, we are moving to the next 2283a bill: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the exercise of the right to privatize housing for residents of hostels) is actually a joint bill. There is a proposal to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support your colleagues, the reduced procedure, 2283a. I'd like everyone in this room to support us, please. [[13:11:06]] For-147 I'm sorry when a faction needs a short-term bill -- they vote when it comes to technical -- the principle of position. I'm going to focus again, and I'm going to back up the procedure. Please vote. [[13:11:37]] For-154 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian National MP, Petrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u146	194th District, Oleg Petrenko, Cherkasi City. We were moved to register this bill as a result of the criminal privatization that took place in the 1990s. And that thousands of people cannot exercise their legitimate right to privatization. But since Bill 1076 has been registered by the profile committee, and it's really, we recognize that it's more thorough and detailed, and that it's already voted on as a basis. So I'm asking all my colleagues not to waste time on the cameras to repeat the same thing that the previous two bills have already said, to focus on the work on Bill 1076. The only thing I hope is that those separate positions that we think have advantages in our bill have been taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u147	Thank you. I invite you to report to the deputy chairman of the committee, Mr. Andri Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! I'm very short. First of all, the example of compromise has just been demonstrated. I sincerely thank the authors of Bill 2283a for making such a wise decision. And the only thing I want to point out is, really, the desire of your bill is to simplify, shorten the procedure, make it accessible to the residents of the hostel. It's probably just your participation in the working group after. Between the first and the second reading it will help us to make this procedure in Law 1076 really simple, understandable and accessible to all those half a million residents of the dormitories who are now awaiting our effective action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u149	Your offer, please. Sound the proposal from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u150	The committee's proposal is not. Decline. It doesn't sound like that. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u151	Thank you. Tell me in a responsible manner, your fellow national MPs, is there a need to discuss this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u152	None. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine (for the exercise of the right to privatize housing for residents) (number 2283a) as a basis. The committee's proposal is rejected, but according to the Rules I'm laying the groundwork. Please vote. Please. [[13:14:35]] For-88 The decision is not made. But I think the committee will be able to accept all the healthy suggestions when considering the second reading. So the next bill from the same package is bill 2589, draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Realization of Housing Rights of Residents. There is also an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, and I ask all colleagues to support this proposal jointly and responsibly. Please vote for the summary procedure. Please. [[13:15:21]] For-149 We haven't been able to vote. Please concentrate, concentrate, and I will once again put to the vote the bill's motion for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:15:54]] For a hundred and We didn't make it, did we? Please, Your Honor, there is a committee decision on it, there is a common position on it, there is a request for a reduced procedure. We continue to have important decisions on the Chernobylites, on the Crimean Tatars, to be discussed at least. I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:16:33]] For-163 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Drozdik Alexandr Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! In fact, today we've raised a very important question -- this is a problem that we're trying to solve for the residents of hostels who have the right to live, in fact, and everyone is doing and trying to do the best they can to harm them in some way. I won't repeat myself, neither will I. Our project simply proposes a slightly different mechanism for the actual restoration of the rights of the occupants of the hostel, namely, that there should be no right for the owner who illegally, I repeat, to include in the statutory fund the data of the object, to ask him: What does he allow to transfer it to municipal property or not? And this is the very big problem because citizens cannot realize their rights under the Housing Rights Act because there is such a standard in article 14. And all the owners, they're ignoring that right and refusing to transfer it. So I fully agree with the fact that number 1076 -- the bill that we voted on in the first reading -- is a broader solution to this issue and question. But I insist that by the second reading, we must have prepared our own mechanism, as we stated in the 14th article, for the second reading in Law 1076. So I support, if I may, the committee's proposal and I would like to take you into account for the second reading in 1076 of our standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, even the author of the bill takes a position with the committee: to reject and consider these proposals in 1076. Let's maybe even do a report, not waste time, but put it to a vote. Is there an agreement in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u155	Then, with your permission, I'm voting on a bill amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (room 2589) as a basis. Who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. The committee's asking for a rejection. Please vote. [[13:19:27]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Let's go to the next bill, 2434a. It's also a bill from the same package that we're looking at. But I would like to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please focus, focus, come into the hall. And I'd like to support the 2434a review on a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:20:10]] For-140. The MPs didn't make it. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm asking you to support this offer, or we won't finish the package. We won't be able to fully consider 1076 -- this is the last bill from that package. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. I ask you to prepare yourself and back up the offer: consider 2434a as a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. [[13:20:54]] For 155 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Malashkin Maksim Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! A bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, registered 2434a, called for improvements in housing legislation. In particular, the project proposes to eliminate the contradictions contained in the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act, in particular the exclusion of sections 9, 11 and 1 of the first article 3 as well as part three of article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act. What is the need to exclude these points? In particular, they provide for an additional definition by Kabin of ways to maintain privatized and non-privatized accommodation and non-residential accommodation in dormitories, as well as incubator areas, as well as the definition of order by Kabmin for residents, with the consent of the owner of the hostel, at the expense of the self-repair of the residential and auxiliary premises of the hostel. However, these issues are addressed today by a valid legislative framework, such as the laws on privatization of the State Housing Fund, housing and utility laws, the acts of Kabmin, which are already in force and are addressing these issues. These are the rules for the use of residential buildings, these are typical contracts for the provision of maintenance services for buildings and buildings. The issue of repairs also, since they are part of maintenance, can be regulated and further negotiated in accordance with the Civil Code. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this project was discussed with the public, particularly with the All-U.S. Associations, representing and supporting the interests of the residents of the hostels. During the drafting of this project, the committee also supported the questions and decided to include its provisions in Bill 1076, which was adopted as a basis for today's revision of the first and second readings. Please support with regard to the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u157	Thank you. Let's get off the committee. Or actually the same position. Is there a need for a committee to act? There's no need. Dear colleagues! All the drafters agree that we should work on 1076 and take these proposals into account. We have to do a formal action, a formal thing, to reject all the bills on the same subject. That's why I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (2434th). Committee conclusions: take into account the second reading, 1076. But whoever supports this bill on the basis, please vote. 2434th based. Please vote. [[13:24:22]] For-100 The decision is not made. The bill is rejected. We've passed this important package of bills, we've been able to pick one out of them as a basis, which allows us to prepare it for the second reading, so that we can make the right decision in the room. And now, colleagues, I have a proposition for you. See, we have a number of important decisions: on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people; on the honor of the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident; and there is an important decision. And there is a request that we discuss them, and then. They're non-conflict, they're not contradictory. So that we can discuss them and make decisions when we are ready. If there is no objection, my fellow Members, I suggest we take a look at it and I propose to move on to the next item in the agenda of 2493 -- this is the draft decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. And I'm asking you to support the reporter and consider a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues! Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:52]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! We have to take a step that we should have taken a long time ago. We must repay the Crimean Tatar people. We have to think about the history of Ukraine. And the history of the Crimean Tatar people is also the history of Ukraine. And to admit everything that happened in 44, when, in fact, the whole nation was trying not just to relocate, but actually to eradicate genocide. That's what this is all about. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on September 23, discussed the draft decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people (number 2493a). National members of the committee, honoring the memory of the victims of the Crimean Tatar people in 44 C.E. and condemning the criminal acts of the totalitarian regime of the Soviet Union against the Crimean Tatar people, supported the need for such a decision. As a result of the committee’s consideration, the draft decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people is recommended as a whole. The only thing I'd like to add. What is happening now is that the Crimean Tatar people are being persecuted on their land, when the leaders of the Crimean Tatar people who are in this room, like their people, are suffering the invaders, when illegal searches and killings continue, we must continue this determination. I'm asking you to add the following for the transcript. Complete the draft regulation with a new paragraph 3 of the next sentence. By renumbering further items accordingly. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine states that the systematic pressure on the Crimean Tatar people, the repression of Ukrainian citizens by national signs, the organization of ethnically and politically motivated persecution of Crimean Tatars, their organs, such as the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and the Crimskotatarian Kurultai on the temporarily occupied Ukraine from the State authorities of the Russian Federation, starting with the start of the temporary occupation, is a conscious policy of the ethnocid of the Crimean Tatar people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor. Do you want to talk about it? Please include two for, two for against. Please sign up, your honors. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We support the initiative, the Radical Party faction, to acknowledge the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. We feel for our brothers — the Crimean Tatars who survived, just as I did for the Ukrainian people — the Ukrainian people survived the famine. The Crimean Tatars survived a tragedy when entire families without guilt, crime, were deprived of their homes, deprived of their homeland, evicted from the plains, into the fields without any means of subsistence. This crime, this genocide of the Stalinist Communist regime against the Crimean Tatar people, as well as the crimes of the Communist regime against other peoples of the former Soviet Union, must never be forgotten. And that's why our task, our task, the new generation of Ukrainians, is to organize a new Nuremberg trial on the crimes of communism. It is not enough to ban Communist symbols in the Ukrainian State. Millions of innocently murdered Ukrainians, Russians, Crimean Tatars, Jews, people of other nationalities who look up to us from heaven today, their souls, they cry out to us for the triumph of justice, the triumph of justice. And many years later, after being a criminal. The Communist regime of these crimes, its organizers are not punished. Their descendants today split Ukraine, brought Putin’s troops to Ukraine, brought back blood, tears to our native Ukrainian land. Clearly, then, these crimes must be condemned, whether later or sooner, but they will be punished. I only have one question to ask the author of the bill. Why the decision rather than the draft law? After all, when we voted on the Holodomor Law, it was a law, not a decree. Perhaps this would be the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u161	Please be able to finish. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u162	Perhaps in this case too, the Law on the Recognition of the Genocide of the Crimean Tatar Nation should be adopted. It's more important, it's stronger, it's more solid than determination. It seems to me that this would be the right thing to do — the Gollodomor Act against the Ukrainian People, the Genocide Act, the condemnation of genocide against the Crimean Tatar people — is the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u164	Allow me to give the floor to the prominent representative of the Crimean Tatar people, Mr. Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u165	Please, Mr. Chubarov, to the rostrum. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u166	Dear Head, dear colleagues! According to the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, actions aimed at the destruction of individual population groups or nations on racial, national, political or religious grounds are a key element of the crime of genocide. The decision of the State Defence Committee of the USSR of May 11, 1944 begins this way: "All Tatars evicted from Crimea territory and strengthened them as special settlers in the areas of the Uzbek Soviet Union." A week later, when the deportation begins on May 18, the areas of Siberia and Ural are added here. 46 percent Crimean Tatars, if you're more precise, 46.2 percent Crimean Tatars, that's almost half of our numbers we lost in the early years, our own expulsion from hunger, cold and abuse. You know that the individual nations that were evicted with us brought them back inside. In the late 1950s, but the catastrophe of Crimean Tatars is also determined by the fact that for decades we have been forced violently into places of exile, and thousands of our people have been thrown into Soviet prisons. Dear friends, colleagues have already spoken here, today over the Crimean Tatar people, who in Ukraine’s years of independence have almost managed to return to their land, are once again threatened with expulsion from their homeland. This is a threat posed by the Russian occupation, and we will only be able to prevent it by returning Crimea to Ukraine. The approval of this decree is another step toward the return of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u167	Please give us the opportunity to finish. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I know one thing, if we put to the vote and there aren't enough votes, in Crimea it will be taken very painfully. Place yourself in the place of those who await this determination. So, Mr. Head, if all the factions are ready now, including the Opposition Block, to vote in favour of this and to confirm that they are in favour of returning the Crimea to Ukraine, we can put it to a vote. If there is no such confidence, let us vote on another day when there are enough deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as chairman, I would not like to question the wish of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support our fellow citizens, our cousins of Crimean Tatars. I have no doubt that this issue unites the entire hall against the aggression of the Putinian for the support of our brothers. But I'm careful that there may be insufficient votes in the room and that's why, rather, I would recommend not even putting the vote on the beep, but moving the vote to tomorrow morning, when there's a constituency of deputies in the room. We've already had our discussion. We'll just have to make a decision. I'm going to ask the secretariat to do this tomorrow morning, and I'm going to ask the audience's consent so that we can discuss the matter so that we can vote on it tomorrow. Is my position supported? It is supported, Your Honor, then for tomorrow's vote on the earlier issue. Thank you. But we do have another important decision, which I also think it would be good to speak today. We today have the opportunity to express our thoughts, exchange our thoughts, and that is the advantage of today. And I'm asking you to support its consideration of the reduced procedure is regulation 1487: a bill to honor the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the measures related to the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. I ask for the opportunity to discuss this decision in the hall, and I ask you to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please, colleagues, support this proposal, we vote in favour of a reduced procedure. [[13:36:19]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine Tomenka, Mikola Tomenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Our team, composed of national deputies: Moskalenko, Tomenko, Dirov, Dzublik, Rybak and Chapinoga, points out that we would have to prepare a strategy in advance for the 30th anniversary of Chernobyl, which we will honor on April 26, 2016. Our position is that we conditionally divide these measures into four categories, this is a geopolitical component of the decision, because we understand that these are events of an international level and we have to inform the world about what we have done and what we should do. So there's an international scientific and practical conference in Ukraine and a series of measures of such an educational nature, including parliamentary hearings, which we propose in a separate decision to support. The second position relates to the economic cluster of issues. We have a series of very interesting investment projects today that we would like to make the most of our international partners' funding. And to carry out our mission to the Ukrainian side so that we can say by the age of 30 that we're actually completing the subject "Hide," we're finishing the object "Vector" and the others first. And of course, the most important social component, we must honor those people who have saved us and the world from this scourge. That is why we expect to look again at health care, pension insurance, in the context of the review of the 2016 budget, after the renewal of certain projects that have not been funded by known circumstances since 2015. Thus, the approval of the decision will allow us to predict these programmes in December during the budgetary process, and in 2016, due respect and attention will be given to the topic of Chernobyl. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against, to discuss this decision. Please enter an entry, please log in. Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustenka Block, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, it is clear that we need to uphold the decree today. And I think we definitely need to support similar things. Besides, I'd like to notice. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear Chairman! I would also like to point out that today, in our draft agenda, there is also an extremely important one -- number 3300, by the authorship of National Deputy Igor Nasalik, the draft decree on the 120th anniversary of Eugene Konovaltz's birth. I'm afraid, unfortunately, today we may not be able to get to the point, and we may be able to stop it. So I'm asking you, after considering this question, maybe move a little bit of a day's work, include, I don't think we're going to have a difference in this room, and consider, and include this particular decision in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u173	Mr. Yuri, I would like to point out that this decision is different from the previous one because it needs to be included in the agenda. And I'm afraid that if I put this important decision on Eugene Konovaltz into the agenda, she won't vote, she won't honor our Parliament. And it's probably not just me, it's you. Is that right? Look to the right, to the left by the number of deputies, including your faction. And so, as in the Crimean Tatars, I will not risk the authority of Parliament and the authority of the great actor of the Ukrainian liberation movement, Eugene Konovaltz. Thank you. Please give the next performance: Vassil Alexanderovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u174	Walking, Rebirth Party. Unfortunately, it's over. Many have forgotten 1986, when it all happened, and many people do not. And this. This draft decree is indeed necessary for those who were there. There was, for the most part, everyone was and remained the heroes who then protected Ukraine, and that was very necessary. And I ask that all the deputies vote. And accept it. That'll be a big help for the Chernobyls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Sažko Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u176	Please give the floor to Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, today no doubt we need to consider issues that will address the fate of the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident and their offspring and the development of measures related to the thirtieth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. But what I'd like to say is that something in Parliament today is focused on the following: we're talking about the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy and its problems, we're talking about relevance, and that's what we're going to have to do -- about the necessity of honoring the Connoval. But why are we today from week to week, from day to day, discussing the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Health Reform in Ukraine? Today, only a lazy one does not say that the Ministry of Health has failed reform in Ukraine in general. Today, building measures aimed at enacting a certain law will not solve the issue of reform. Today we need to develop a strategy and a concept. And the parliamentary hearings, which the Mantis authored, are essential in order to initiate this process. Because health reform is not one briefing by the minister of Kwiatashvili. The Ministry has become the world champion of briefings and press conferences today. Unfortunately, the reform is not moving. People need to tell the truth that reform will take five years, the adoption of laws, regulations, regulatory documents, orders, it all needs a systematic, consistent approach. That is why I call for a decision to be made in the Hall to hold parliamentary hearings on health issues in Ukraine. The Opposition Block insists on addressing this issue in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u178	Thank you. The word of the Radical Party faction, Oleg Lazko, has not yet been given. I'll give everyone a word, company. I'll give you my word. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u179	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A draft decree honoring the participants in the Chernobyl disaster and the measures related to the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear fellow national MPs, the best respect for Chernobyl heroes is to pay them the pensions they deserve. The best respect for Chernobyl heroes is the execution of court decisions that these people haven't done in years, and they don't get their money that they've earned. Today, the Chernobylites on the Maidan tariff are spending the fourth week under the Cabinet of Ministers and are spending the night to meet the requirements of the Chernobyl law. And so I think that thousands of Chernobylers are waiting not just for draft regulations, not just once on October 26, to put flowers in the monument, but for the state to remember every day and every hour about the feat of heroes that saved the country from the Chernobyl plague.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u180	Thank you. Please, Oily. I'm sorry, Rybak. I've been mentioning something all this time today, I'm sorry. Fish, please. Then Kishkar, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u181	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. As a representative of the Environmental Protection Committee, I would like to say that at the Conciliation Council this week, we have agreed with the leadership of the Supreme Council that one day of clean environment will be held, and this plenary day will address the very issues that relate to environmental protection. It is not a secret that there are only three laws in Parliament today during the last year that have been passed in general, and only seven have been considered. This is very small, since the clean environment is also essential in health care. Therefore, if possible, tomorrow morning will also be to vote on Decree 1477.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u182	Please, Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u183	I confirm that liquidators need justice. And justice is that the person who actually took action in the 1986-1987s would get, for example, an allowance when he works in the Chaes zone. And a person who sits as a secretary of state in Kiev and one day a month works in the zone has no right, no moral even, to receive such an allowance. People demand that these lists of all liquidators, which have grown fourfold since 1986, be cleaned up and there remain only people who have actually taken action to combat the effects of CHAES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u184	Thank you. From the People's Front. Wait a minute. Please turn on the microphone from the People's Front. Helensky. Turn the microphone on for the deer, please, from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u185	Victor Yelensky, People's Front. I'm talking to my fellow national MPs and I'm talking to veterans of the 731st Battalion, which in 86 was eliminating not the consequences, but the crash itself in the territory of the Chernobyl AES. I'm embarrassed and ashamed of them that in that small period of time that was allocated to discuss the Chernobyl Ordinance, we're discussing everything. This battalion left 18 percent as of April 26 last year. I call on the deputies to support this decision and the People's Front will vote unanimously for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, we can just discuss this endlessly. I've already given my word to all those who wish, but there are two more, can we get back on the show or what? We're not just going to vote. Please, then, Litwin, in turn, I'll give it to you. Vladimir Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! I have 65 districts, one district is practically completely black and white. And when we make a decision to honor the memory of the fighters of this terrible catastrophe, we must analyze how all laws about people living in polluted territories are being implemented. First of all, I think we're going to find out that these laws are not being implemented at all. Secondly, we have wild cases, if, for example, a child who lives in a strictly controlled area, but goes to a school that's already considered clean, she doesn't have the right to free food. And that's why we need to do more than make a ritual decision, but we need to do a thorough analysis of the entire legislative framework. The adoption of the Chernobyl Code that would harmonize all the rights of the Chernobylites as well as of the people living in the polluted territories. And in the budget for the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u188	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u189	And when the 2016 budget is set up, it will provide for the maximum implementation of the laws already adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u190	Thank you. And Aresonkov, but this will be the last performance in the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u191	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency. I would like to confirm Vladimir Mikhailovich's statement that this problem needs to be looked at much wider. Today we're preparing to adopt the Determining Order, we're going to talk about some calculations, some problems that were created there today with the organization of medical supplies, the healing of the Chernobyl population, the feeding. But you need to look at the concept itself. We have to figure this out for today, this question for thousands of people who live in polluted areas, is it important, is it strategic? Are we going to cancel the zones? Will agriculture, industry, be developed in these areas today? Can this product come from zones of so - called zones that are confined to those polluted abroad and so forth? So there's a whole set of problems. So I think the decision is extremely important. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u192	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u193	Clearly, then, the decision is vital. And I'm going to all my colleagues from all the factions to support it and get involved in solving the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We discussed two decisions: the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people, as well as the draft decree on honoring the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the measures related to the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. There is a general suggestion that we vote tomorrow, and today we have concluded with a discussion. And I have a question for you, too. We have seven minutes to work. Will we consider another question? Are we going to the committees?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-11-m0.u195	The committee. It's important committees today. Many begin at two o’clock. And that's why today we were able to look at clusters of important issues that we don't get to them in other days, there's no time. We were able to make decisions, including 1076 -- make a decision. I want everyone to work productively and actively on the committees. And at that morning session, I declare the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I call on everyone tomorrow at 10 a.m. to arrive in the hall. Tomorrow will be an important day, important bills. And I urge everyone to work actively and productively. Thank you. Good-bye.
