ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! First of all, I would like to apologize for the shift of half an hour from the beginning of our session, because there was a meeting of all the leaders of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, and a proposal was made to hold further consultations by 12:30, which was done. And we can now move on to the agenda. I'll let you know what the meeting is all about. And now I'm asking all my fellow national deputies to take their seats in the hall and prepare for registration. Please. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats, preparing for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall, please. [[12:37:17]] 350 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the Supreme Council open. And I would like all my fellow members of the National Deputies to concentrate on our work with you. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Traditionally, I would like to welcome our fellow national deputies, Vladimir Aresonkova, Constantine Matheichenko and Igor Mikolaiovich Pober. Welcome! Dear colleagues! Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, a few words. A few words. Well, first of all, we're with you today in very difficult circumstances, and I'm counting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to do everything in its power to ensure that all the necessary state decisions are made, but these decisions must certainly be quality and professional. Unfortunately, we have enough tight deadlines for the adoption of the State Budget for the following year 2016. We have a lot of different thoughts about satellite laws, including the Tax Code. But I think we're all very clearly aware of the country's challenges and risks if we don't make the necessary decisions. And that's why I'm counting on an absolute construct for the government, for the MP factions to make these decisions and meet the criteria that Ukrainian society requires of us. This is the execution by Ukraine of a social contract in front of Ukrainian citizens. It's saving opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses. This is a consolidation of the decentralization of public finances in Ukraine, with the positive results of millions of people, thousands of communities in Ukraine. This requires a very professional discussion in preparation for decision - making. As I have informed you, there has been a meeting of the faction leaders, with the participation of the Prime Minister of the country, where we have considered further action on the preparation and consideration of the necessary decisions. First. We agreed that today we will have a discussion as required by the procedure, the decisions that are set out for consideration today, on a stand-by basis. Second position. We will consider amending the current Tax Code in order to balance the budget for the following year. Balance the current budget, more precisely the 16th year planned budget, with the adjustment of the current Tax Code. We agreed that the new Tax Code should be a joint product of the government and the Ukrainian Parliament, which should meet the following criteria: development and promotion of the national economy. So we're going to continue this work with you next year to make the necessary decisions. To this end today, a working group of expert factions, the government, will be set up to participate directly in the work of the Prime Minister of the country. And I want to remind you that you and I have the next plenary week to make all the necessary decisions. So once again, I look forward to finding a constructive, I underline, constructive compromise and necessary solutions for the country, to meet our commitments to Ukrainian society and decisions that will allow us to continue our effective cooperation with international financial organizations, to be reconciled and adopted within the framework of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, we're starting our work. And the first question is, we're going to look at the 2016 budget with you. This procedure, the procedure for the submission of the draft budget is provided for in legislation and the entire procedure for the submission has been drawn up. But before that, I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, our high-ranking parliament, today the government of Ukraine will present packages of fiscal and tax changes. Dear colleagues, I will begin with the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Objectively, there are never and will never be perfect budgets. But I hope that the 2016 budget will be effective and fair if the Ukrainian Parliament decides today to listen to the budget, and by next Thursday both the budget and the necessary laws for its implementation, including tax changes, will be worked out with the honourable members of Parliament. We have basic budgetary parameters. First of all, our job is to ensure social justice and raise social standards in the country. In this budget, we propose to raise the social standards by 12 percent. In fact, this will be the first time since the crisis, when the government of Ukraine proposes to compensate for the rise in social standards, the price increase projected for 2012. I would like to comment separately on the change in tax legislation. The Ukrainian government highly appreciates the work done by the Ukrainian national deputies in preparing new taxes and a new edition of the Tax Code. And I hope that the members of the Ukrainian Parliament also appreciate the work that took place six months after the drafting of the new Ukrainian Tax Code. That's why, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine, our proposal is the following. It's number one. Since January 1, we propose to introduce new taxes, make the necessary changes to the current Tax Code. Item two. We suggest that we adopt in the first reading the wording of the Tax Code, which is proposed by the government. Paragraph three. We propose that the Ukrainian Parliament, together with the Ukrainian government, develop a government draft of changes. And not to introduce it from January 1st or February 1st, but after our lengthy discussion, after a broad public discussion, after the preparation of the Ukrainian business, and the perception by the Ukrainian business of these tax changes, to put it into effect during 2016. Next. We are convinced that the Ukrainian Parliament is interested in stabilizing the Ukrainian economy. And so, the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which we are working together, we will go through every article, both income and expenditure -- the Ukrainian State Budget Act will be passed by the end of this year. And last but not least, the distinguished national MPs. We can represent different political forces, we can have different visions of how Ukraine should develop, but we are convinced that we have one common, one goal. Our goal is to develop the Ukrainian economy, create jobs, ensure social justice and ensure progressive economic growth. As Head of Government, I fully support the position of the Parliamentary Head and the MP factions on the basis of what is needed in the Ukrainian Parliament to create an appropriate working group. And together with the officials, we're going to come to you every day, with the goal of going through all the complex issues that Ukrainian parliamentarians have, and most importantly, finding solutions. Therefore, Your Honor, Mr. Head, there is a proposal to hear a presentation of the budget and other laws. And I'm convinced that we're going to find the strength to accept both the budget and the tax changes to create jobs. And to allow Ukraine to continue to develop without politics and empty statements, and only through progressive, correct and effective reforms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u3	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable colleagues propose the next order for consideration of this issue: the presentation of the budget. Budget presentation: Minister of Finance – 10 minutes; response to questions from the Minister of Finance – 10 minutes; report from the First Deputy, report from the First Deputy Head of the Committee, five minutes from the Committee, co-report; responses from representatives of the Committee, statements from representatives of the MPs, Ukrainian National Deputies and closing statement. That is, this procedure is fully described by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite me to represent Natal Jaresko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to present to you the 2016 draft of the Ukrainian State Budget and briefly outline the related bills. This draft budget reflects the main priorities of Ukraine's policy, the government and responds to the basic challenges and needs of the state, citizens and business. Yes, the 2016 budget is based on the following key priorities in our difficult time and reflects. First. The state of permanent war in the eastern part of the country and the need to keep our troops in a state of readiness and security and the fact that this factor brings some element of uncertainty to our planning. We have identified the basics and parameters of our defence and security policy for the years to come. The other one. The successful restructuring of the government debt that has been hanging over us, threatening the default for the whole country, and consequently the isolation of it from the capital markets for years to come. And what defined our basic borrowing needs and the basic parameters of our legal policy next year. Third. The need for tax reform, as discussed and as expected by all society and the real economy in particular. The debates on this reform lasted all this year and only recently was the reform approved by the National Reform Council, headed by the President of Ukraine. Reform determines our income portion of the budget. Four. The state of society and its social protection needs, basic social guarantees and freedoms, and which defines one of our main parts of the budget spending, is 43 billion growth. Fifth. The need to reduce the cost of the state, to reduce the state's drinking weight in the economy, and thus to free room for private initiative and for the private sector. State spending needs more efficient and targeted spending. Six. Take responsibility for all branches of government under the State Reform Programme and the programme supported by our international partners. I would like to emphasise that this is not only about the International Monetary Fund, but also about the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Institutional Bank, our international official partners from the United States, the EU and beyond. Yes, these arrangements contain profound transformations in our state and in fiscal policy, especially but not only. The seventh and most important, which reflects this budget, is the government's belief that the proposed changes in income and expenditure sections offer a comprehensive and systematic solution to take into account and balance all of our challenges and needs today. We believe that this document offers a practical solution to transform the fragile stability and balance that we have been able to achieve with you in the last year of small work, the transformation into real growth in our economy, the creation of new jobs, stable prices and the exchange rate, and ultimately the growth of the well-being of every citizen of our country. So the budget is prepared on the basis of a government-approved macro-prediction. This forecast predicts nominal GDP at the end of 2016 at $2 billion,262 billion. Real GDP growth by 2 percent, inflation growth is 12 percent, average exchange rate is 24.1 dollars per dollar, and by the end of 2016 it is 24.4 dollars per dollar. The average price of gas we put in the budget is $225 per thousand cubic meters. The budget revenue will be 601 billion dollars, which means an increase of 16 percent compared to the current budget for 2015. Expenditures will amount to 674 billion dollars, which is also 16 percent more than in the 2015 budget. The government budget deficit next year will decrease from 4.1 percent of GDP in the current year to 3.7 percent of GDP or 84 billion dollars in the next year. Moreover, thanks to the efforts of our government to 3.7 percent of GDP in the next year, the deficit in the budget with NAC Naftogaza, which was 10.1 percent of GDP in 14 years ago. Such prudent fiscal policies will reduce our country's need for additional funding, that is, the inclusion of new debt to cover deficits, which means it will help, not in words, but in practice, to continue to reduce the debt burden on the country we started in the current year. Finally, reducing deficits will help reduce inflationary and devaluation pressures on Ukraine's economy, so it will be extremely important for the continuation and strengthening of our economy, with such a hard effort to achieve stability. At the same time, it's very important for all of us in this room right now and for all the citizens in this country to understand that the Ukrainian government has not accidentally submitted the draft budget for 2016, not a separate bill, but a package containing six other bills. Why so? This draft budget is based on a tax reform project approved by the recent National Council for Reforms under the leadership of the President. This project has a very significant impact on both the income and the spending of the state budget. And in order to do tax reform and not balance the state budget at the same time, not to create risks for what we have just acquired with such economic stability efforts, the impact that the reform will have on the budget, we need to balance with you a number of other important steps that other bills are dedicated to, which are an integral part of this budget and which I want to talk about. As far as the budget was concerned. Let me first tell you about the revenue portion of the budget. The proceeds are based on a new tax base that will be implemented through tax reform. This includes key elements such as the extension and alignment of the tax field, which is becoming fairer and more transparent; the cancellation and closure of multiple taxes and exclusions; the reduction of taxes on the payroll fund, the increase in taxes on excise goods; the legalization of the gambling business and the production of amber; the qualitative improvement of tax administration and the introduction of electronic services; and finally the growth of our economy and the projected increase in prices. As a result of tax reform, we are significantly reducing the level of taxes that will mobilise the budget and which will directly reduce tax burden. The draft tax reform contained in Bill 3630, which I will report on later today, proposes a fundamental reduction in the EU: an average of 41 per cent, up to 20 per cent, which we propose in this reform. This means that the budget deficit of the Pension Fund will increase by 108 billion dollars next year. And although it's a deficit in the Pension Fund's budget, it's not a budget directly, but to finance this gap we have in the budget. Most importantly, we've found a way to balance our budget through a number of important steps, both in terms of income and in terms of expenditure. First of all, we suggest that we increase some of the deductions from state-owned enterprises, as discussed in Bill 3627. In warning questions, I will explain the logic of this step. Today, the dominant majority of state-owned enterprises are extremely inefficient, much of them conceal their real profits and, as a result, do not pay the State as the owner of a fair contribution. The government is working on changing the corporate governance system of enterprises and privatizing inefficient and non-strategic enterprises. But until this change takes place, we suggest that we increase the share of net profit removal from the enterprises from the current 30 percent. If the net profit portion is set to 75 percent for all state-owned unit companies, this will provide an additional resource of 5.2 billion dollars to the budget. Secondly, in order to partially offset budget requirements and to increase social justice, we offer to tax elite housing and luxury cars. Thirdly, in order to reduce the use of harmful products for our population and to fulfil our obligations under the EU Association Agreement, we propose to increase excise rates on beer, strong alcohol and tobacco. Finally, we propose to legalize a complex settlement and, as a result, to start taxing the gambling business, as discussed in draft Law 3632. Now let me tell you about the expenditure portion of the budget. As a result of the need to increase the financing of the pension deficit due to the fall in the EU budget next year, the budget will increase to 674 billion, 16 per cent more than the 15th budget. The second factor of the increase in expenditure is the increase in national security and defence spending to 103.6 billion dollars or 4.6 percent of GDP compared to 97 billion dollars in the current year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u5	How much time do you need, Minister? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u6	The third factor in increasing budget spending is social expenditure. The following year we plan two steps: from May 1st and December 1st to raise the minimum wage and minimum wage by 12.5 percent within one year. In particular, the minimum wage of 1 May will amount to 1 thousand 450 dollars or 72 dollars more, and from 1 December it will be 1 thousand 550 dollars or 100 dollars more. Including the cost of living, the minimum will be increased. The total increase in social standards costs will amount to 43 billion dollars in the next year’s balance sheet. Also in this draft budget, we propose a significant and extremely important package of measures for our country to improve the efficiency and targeting of the use of public expenditure. My team will report on this package in more detail later, reporting on draft Law 3628, which is part of the budget package. Now all I'm going to say is that these measures are going to reduce the country's expenditure by about 70 billion dollars or 3.1 percent of GDP, taking into account the direct economy of the EU's downturned economy. We will also significantly increase housing subsidies for the population and compensate for the increase in energytariffs from 24.4 billion dollars to 35 billion dollars next year. Subsidies to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children and disabled children, and to care for the disability of the first or second group will increase from 2.4 billion dollars. Public welfare payments for orphans and children deprived of parental care, foster parents' money, foster parents' social services in foster homes and foster families will increase from about 600 million to 800 million dollars. However, despite the increase in government expenditure just listed next year, there is no basis for talking about the dissolution of the public sector or state expenditure. On the contrary, the total volume of GDP redistribution through the budget, taking into account the Pension Fund and the Naftogazu NAC, is shrinking considerably. If it was 53 percent of GDP in 14-15 years, then the next is 43 percent of GDP. Honourable deputies, the third important aspect of the Budget Act, are its relations with local communities. In the current year, we witnessed the success of the financial decentralization that took place last December with you. The following year, we anticipate a further increase in financial decentralization, and to that end, we are increasing, on the one hand, not as we are trying to speak, but as we are increasing the financial resources of local communities, and we are also giving more importance to the local authorities to influence the economic development of our cities and villages. For example, it is possible to have an effective influence on the region’s labour market and to regulate the volume of government procurement in each particular CTU, technology, or second - category serpents. We are able to make it possible for local authorities to decide who is more in need of local shopkeepers, engineers, or, say, agronomists. So now this is all being solved at the central level, and you and I are seeing the terrible outcome of these decisions. We have a surplus of tourism managers, accountants, lawyers who have never worked in their lives for a specialty, but for which we have all paid the costs as citizens. At the same time, I want to point out that we are giving local communities much more resources than new commitments. A few digits. The financial resources of the local budgets in the 16th year are projected to increase by 41 and a half billion dollars compared to the approved local communities plan for the 15th year, by 40 percent until last year. At the same time, the amount of direct financial commitments we transfer to local budgets will be only about 7.8 billion dollars. These 7.8 billion are the total costs of the local budgets, which will result from the transfer of 100 per cent of the funding of PTUs, and with our proposal to co-finance 50 per 50 of the state and local budgets, higher education institutions of the I-II accreditation level: technology and colleges. It's worth noting here that these educational institutions we're transferring to the level of cities of regional importance and district budgets that will have the full financial resources to do so. For other expenses, we give the right — not the obligation! – only the right if the local authorities decide to grant such funding at their own expense. Once again, this is a right, not a commitment. Whether or not to exercise that right, and if so, in what extent it is used, it will depend on the decision of the local community and its needs. I would also like to point out that the results of the decentralization that has already been carried out this year show that in many local authorities at different levels from regions to areas there are substantial financial resources that they may wish to address these needs. For your understanding of the current situation on December 15, the unspent balance of local budgets is about 26 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u7	Please finish. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u8	And they keep almost 2 billion dollars on their deposits in held bonds. This is direct and clear evidence of successful decentralization and sufficient financial support for local self - government in Ukraine. Of course, we realize that the resource is being distributed unevenly, so all the balancing and stabilising subsidies are stored in the budget and in the inter-budget relations. Finally, as part of enhancing the financial capacity of local budgets to form infrastructures for these 159 regional communities that are united, we will direct a billion dollars and channel 4.7 billion dollars to the State Regional Development Fund. Finally, another feature of the budget that I would like to note is the significant financial resource that we are investing in real economic development, in particular: State support for socio-economic development of regions of 4.7 billion dollars against 2.9 dollars in 15th year, energy saving measures -- 0.7 billion dollars, the road sector -- 19.9 billion dollars, the space sector -- 3.4 billion dollars, support for agriculture -- 300 million dollars, implementation of public investment projects that are going to be built by the Mini-Economy Commission -- a billion dollars and more. This is a key, although, of course, there is no exhaustive information about the draft law. To sum up, once again, I would like to emphasise that the budget and the related bills that we are proposing to you today allow us to achieve several very important goals: broaden the tax base and make the tax field fairer and more transparent; significantly reduce the tax burden on wages that all Ukrainian businesses so expect; ensure sufficient funding for our troops and all social guarantees to the state before our citizens; ensure that all domestic and external financial obligations are met and, most importantly, ensure stability, predictability and economic growth, both for the country as a whole and for every citizen in particular. So I ask you to support this draft of the State Budget Act for the 16th year and the package of laws filed with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Questions, please. Minister, 10 minutes to ask. You can get out of here, no questions asked. If you're comfortable, please. Please. I don't want to go into this discussion right now, but I think in the next year's budget, it's not decentralization, it's centralization, it's decentralization. And I can prove it in numbers completely professionally. So I don't think we need to change the concept, but we need to sit down and discuss the system that has proven its effectiveness. And a 40 percent increase in budgets is exactly what the government and parliament introduced, and was approved by the President in 2015. Its destruction is unacceptable. And what they have is 26 billion dollars is 26 billion dollars from local communities all over Ukraine. And you have 100 billion in a single treasury account and nothing to worry about. But this is a sign that the system works properly, and they will be able to solve their questions. Please, colleagues, let's sign up for a question. Colleagues, questions, please log in. We've got 10 minutes. Please be concise. Please, Igor Shurma, Opposition Block, first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u11	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished Minister of Finance, Prime Minister, distinguished Ukrainian people, the question of the following. It was said that the social standards were raised by 12 percent. This year’s inflation rate was 50 percent. At the same time, during the presentation of the budget reform, Mr. Prime Minister said that there was no debt. And in a single treasury account, you have 95 billion. Ms. Natala and Mr. Primere, do you not find it immoral in the draft Law on the State Budget to stop the operation of the rules that require you to pay back the debt to residents of cities, villages, areas in the area of ATO for scholarships, wages, and social benefits on a number of projects: they are pensioners, they are preschoolers, they are secondary school workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u13	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. First, the government's liquidity and the ECR. So this morning, the start of the day, the total amount for the ECR is 29.6 billion and the equivalent of 47.6 and the total amount is 77.2. Of these 77.2, I want to emphasize, 24.4 is not the government's money, and these are the local budgets. And we, in no way, can ever use that money. In addition to that there are 8.1 which are the costs of other customers, I mean universities and others that hold on to the ECR. So when we talk about government liquidity, the government's liquidity is not about the amount that's in the ECR, because it's not just ours, it's the local budgets, it's other customers. In addition to this, we need to understand how much expenditure is unspent, after 11 months of this year. The unspent balance of December 1st this year was 42 billion dollars, which will now be spent in the last month, perhaps not all of them, but most of them. So if you take this sum of 77.2 minus the local budget costs, minus the other customers' costs, minus the non-depository costs, we have the liquidity that's indicative of this day 2.7 billion, so this money can't be talked about in another way. As far as I'm concerned, 12.5 percent of the increase in the socnore is concerned. The question is, socio-standards and socio-standards. That's exactly what we have to look at next year's inflation forecast. This is the first time the government has predicted – for the first time! – that we will be able to stop inflation from increasing, with the same increase in social standards over the course of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich. Colleagues, please be brief, then there will be more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Natala. I want to ask you a question and at the same time tell you that the Prime Minister has already said that the budget code will virtually not change, but only changes will be made – it is already a plus. But please tell me, as you wrote in article 30, that the science academy will be subordinated to the ministries. The Academy of Sciences is self-governing organizations and they have to be their money managers. With all due respect to ministries, we can't allow ministries to be managers of the funds of self-governing organizations and, above all, ministries. The Academy of Sciences. And the last. 300 million for agriculture is a disgrace, and you better not call that number. And 289 million minus for the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, that's also, more for fundamental research, it's also a disgrace to our agrarian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u17	Thank you. Please answer for the school’s principals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u18	Vladimir Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! As far as the Academy of Sciences is concerned, I want to report that the National Academy of Sciences remains the main cost manager. With regard to the other five academics, it was decided that, after lengthy discussions, their budgets should be established and subordinated through ministries. We know that the effectiveness of activity today is low enough and, I think, it doesn't satisfy society. That is why such an offer has been made today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u19	Please, Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Thank you for asking, first. Regarding academic science, we are guided by our new Law on Science and Technology, which you have approved and will be signed in due course. As part of the implementation of this law, there are major global changes in the financing and formation of state policy in the scientific sphere. Today, we think that we don't have a single state policy in scientific research, so this year we've proposed, more faithfully, it was a collective decision that academics are cooperating with their ministries and they're working together to solve the problems of the field. Then in implementing the law, we're going to change this system and they're going to be the way it's written in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Volodymyr Gusak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u22	Good afternoon! The Prime Minister, now owes more than 700 million dollars to coal miners. The draft budget provides for a cut in expenditure on the Ministry of Energy and Coal from 2 billion to 600 million this year: up to one and a half billion next year. I have a question: would that result in a further increase in government mine debt? And are there any measures that are planned to prevent this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u23	Please comment, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u24	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, at the moment, the debt does not exceed 650 million, which is also quite a sum, and at the beginning of the year, last year, there was also about the same debt. So over the course of this year, 2015, the debt to miners has not increased, and all the support for subsidies or subsidies has now been 900 million dollars. At a comparable rate last year, it was 5 billion, that is, in 2014. Yes. At the moment, we proposed, and the Cabinet of Ministers supported the proposal, redistributing an additional 312 million dollars, already supported by the Budget Committee yesterday. And I'm convinced that by tomorrow, by the end of the day, these costs will be spent on paying off this debt. So at the moment, debt is less than one month's pay, which is paid in principle on a regular basis. And I've already said that it hasn't grown during this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u26	What are the possible solutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u27	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u28	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. You know, there's a serious strain on local budgets today on the financing of trade and technology. When we have this basic example in the territory of Chernobyl, the Straženecki region, one of two in Ukraine forest colleges that prepare forest specialists, they prepare experts for the whole country when they are financed by the local community. The same is true of other techniques and colleges. It's at a time when this year they're running out of money to pay for wages in gardens, it can't be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Auntie Donz, People's Front, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u30	Mrs. Natala, the question is. I understand that the draft budget is based on a new tax. on a new tax reform, but if you compare the dividends that you increased from 5 percent to 20 percent last year for a simplified tax system, you got, on dividends, minus 15 percent by 2014, compared to 2014, although 2014 was much worse for the country than 2015. I mean, the next one. This year you want to increase the dividend tax not only for a small business, but also for a large business, so you won't, in principle, receive dividend tax? That's the first question. Question two. You're saying you're going to get a profit from the gaming business. But you know, under the law that's being passed, there's no hotel in Dnipropetrovsk, for example, 4 stars or 5 stars that would hold 100 numbers, so I don't know what country this law was written for. Clearly, apart from the city of Kiev, in no other city is there likely to be no casino in Ukraine, so I don’t understand what the cost will be. And one last question. You realize that in Dobropolje this is not the city of Kiev, the apartment 250 meters per day costs real.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u31	Twenty seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u32	In Dobropolje the apartment costs 2.5 million dollars, which is 250 square meters, if we talk about the tax of 25,000 -- that's 10 percent of its total value. In terms of the city of Kiev, perhaps that is the case, it makes sense. But there are other cities in Ukraine besides Dobropolis. Except Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u33	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. As for the total payout of dividends, it should be noted that we are offering 18 percent of the income tax that is paid by the enterprise, the dividend tax is 18 percent extra, it's paid by the individual, and it's the income of the individual. There's a wrong position that the interest on dividends is 36. Once again, 18 is a tax on income paid by an enterprise, and the income of a natural person is taxed separately by 18 percent. In doing so, we propose to make it even: equal taxation of labour income and passive income, in order to reduce the ability of individual entrepreneurs to avoid taxation of labour income at the expense of dividends. Declining the tax rate to 10 percent for dividends, for example, will create unequal tax conditions for individuals who receive employment income by doing some of the work envisaged by the employment contract. Also, lowering the dividend tax rate to 10 percent would create certain conditions under which unconscientious taxpayers can use the difference in tax rates to optimize the cost of work by paying it as dividends, since the tax rate would be 8 percent lower than the rate of pay. Therefore, in order to avoid inconsistencies in the payment of taxes, we suggest that the same rate of taxation of labour income and passive income be equal. About your second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Please report to the committee. Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, deputy chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u36	Can I answer for gambling, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u37	Gambling, one minute. And then there's the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u38	We'll just talk about it separately, but there's a coming not only from the casino, but from the lottery, and from bookmakers and other species. That's the first thing about creating 5 billion. But second of all, hotels. There are ten or more hotels in Kiev, two hotels in Truscave, one in Dnipropetrovsk, two in Frankivsk, three in Lviv, three in Odessa, one in Zaporozhye, one in Kharkiv, and you can even talk further. So this wasn't a bill for Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u39	Please, Sergey Melnik, from the committee. Five minutes report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A draft State Budget Act was presented by the government the following year, which led to a heated and lengthy discussion on the committee yesterday. I'm going to focus on two main issues that are most acutely disturbing and disturbing the national MPs. The first question is the tax base on which income is generated and especially in the part where it is formed on the basis of government initiatives based on tax and other legislation. So we realize that the final decision in this room depends on the reality of it. And the next list of issues is the question of inter-budget relations. We clearly believe that this budget provides a departure from the country's decentralization rate. Especially. Especially with regard to inter-budget relations. These are significantly reduced levels of education, medical subsidies, lack of financial resources for the transfer of vocational education, as well as higher levels of accreditation I-II. This is a question of the transfer of part of a single tax that relates to local budgets. This is a question of passing verifications (you know, that's the fashion word today) of aid verifications that are passed on to local budgets and there's no answer to that. This is a question of differences in tariffs and a number of others. We therefore understand that the approval of the State budget should take place only after final decisions have been made on changes to the Tax Code, the Budget Code and other legislation to ensure that the relevant legal rules are harmonized and that the balance of the budget and all indicators is maintained. The committee therefore looks forward to the fruitful cooperation of the people's deputies, the government, first and foremost, of the Minfin to find compromising balanced decisions that will contribute to the adoption of the State Budget Bill for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, five minutes to ask. Sign up, dear fellows. Please log in. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u43	Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Sergei, you have no idea that this draft budget was written without a system of local self-government and without a deputy corps, and with the President. So what am I saying? Look, the President issued a decree on the respect of the Chernobyls in relation to 30 years. There's practically no money in the budget. We in the Supreme Council have adopted the Law on Science and Science and Technology, in the government, the exact opposite approach. We're talking about a system of local self-government, this is a completely different approach. We're talking about how to save the system, strengthen the industry, transfer it to local budgets. By the way, I want to say that a lot of universities in the university system are perfectly normal and there are still systemic universities. Why take and transfer universities to local budgets? Perhaps the problem is that the government did not work with all the parts of the local government, so the budget came out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u45	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I can tell you that we don't understand the philosophy of individual changes at all. Those changes that you called, for example, are proposed in terms of health care, a secondary level that will be converted to a district level, that is, specialized and highly specialized, and will now be at the district level. At the same time, vocational education, for example, is a city of regional importance, where we know that a large number of children are learning rural areas. I think after we answer these questions in this room, we have to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u46	Please ask Yuri Lewchenko a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u47	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to say two words in this room as the head of the Committee on Budgets. Our subcommittee is just reviewing the bills to fit them into budget legislation, the Budget Code. So I would like to point out that this whole procedure that is currently taking place is totally not in line with the Code of Budgets, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, even though we should start by considering the hypothetical changes to the Code of Taxation and the Code of Budget, adopting them or not adopting them and then forming the country's budget. Because how can you form a country's budget now that it's still unclear on which tax base it's going to form definitively, firstly, and secondly, it's not clear what kind of fiscal code is going to be final, society. So let us still act according to the law. You know, if you don't know how to act, do it by law. All these rules are laid down in the Code of Budgets, as set out in the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us act in accordance with these standards, and then perhaps we can still form a normal document, not this mess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u48	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u49	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please tell me that we all understand and respect your Committee of Budgets. Have you been analyzed that the project submitted by the government of Ukraine has very high figures? For example, what I'm going to say is that you're going to produce amber in the revenue section of one and a half billion dollars. But in what way do they want to do it? On the basis of these two companies, one of which is the bankruptcy of Ukrabishtin and Burshtin of Ukraine, the other gets 300 kilograms? But in fact, it's different. This is not a matter of custody but of industrial production. Would he give that kind of money or any other kind of money to do this kind of work? I'll tell you from practice that I don't. Overseers today are willing to pay in the income section, but because of a law that will allow them to acquire it in a non-industrial way. And I'll tell you more about what's coming and going to take tens of tons of amber across the border, and there's billions, tens of billions of dollars, not one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u50	I've already pointed out that this is an income source. We have to be determined by law first, and only from the final decision to be taken in this room, from the instruments that determine this room will be able to talk about reality. In general, the draft law contains a lot of risks. You know, the main risk is a significant reduction in the EU's, that's a third group. I'm not going to stop at the amendments to the Tax Code, everyone has been identified during this period, and the committee notes that we have to look at all these bills first, and after the final decision, we have to go to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u51	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u52	The honourable representative of the budget committee, of course, I am confident that both you, members of the budget committee and Parliament as a whole, have been removed from the budgetary process because the budgetary process in question has a very short-term, short-term, time-consuming implementation of the relevant drafts, and Parliament is unable to produce the bills in a qualitative manner. As in last year, nothing changes. The next question. You don't think that this is discrimination, you don't think that this bill is actually discrimination against the local budgets of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which don't increase the base allocations accordingly, and they don't take up the last place in the state budget of Ukraine? And why, as a result of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance’s presentation on the subject, and the Prime Minister’s year of prosperity next, do you again stop numerous social benefits for many millions of citizens and, in particular, stop the standards to which the debt to the residents of the ATO is due? Why does this happen?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u53	Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u54	Well, I can tell you that today is a difficult situation for a country. So I think there should be less politics here, more professional consideration. And we have to give the first answer to all the social questions that have been adopted in a few decades. Without that, no questions asked. Without answering these questions about spending, I think it's very difficult to talk about budget balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Please take your seat in the hall. Sergei Ivanovich, thank you for the answers to the questions. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Yuri Lucenko? Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Petra Dustenka Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies, Dear Chairman, let us mention what the budget is for. The budget should answer the question: Who and how much to give. But to do that, you have to have something to give. So I go back to one fundamental problem, the balance of income and expenditure has to be the same, or we're lying to people. In Ukraine, unfortunately, this rule was decided to be corrected. And for a long time, Ukraine was in debt. The result was the phenomenon we came to. Amazing debts, the inability to service them, and the inability to obtain new loans. What's changed in the country now? Has anything changed? I'd like to ask you to look at last year's situation for which there's a report. Public spending in Ukraine is 54 percent of GDP, public income is 40 percent of GDP. What can we do to cover this difference? And can we answer the problem if this problem is not solved? Maybe something changed in 2015. Let's look at the 2015 situation. To the absolute extent, given the budget deficit in full, last year the budget deficit was about 200 billion. This year’s budget deficit is 170 billion dollars. Do you know who in the internal market covers this deficit? National Bank of Ukraine. And then don't be surprised why we have inflation that wasn't 20 years old and why it keeps pushing this printing press to the National Bank of Ukraine. There's a part of the real deficit reduction on the account of Naftogaz Ukraine. But the main part of this decline is the reduction in wages. Friends, you don't remember that the number of the salary budget that existed before September 1st of this year, the thousand 218 dollars, you'll find that figure in the 2013 budget. During this time last year, inflation is 25 percent, and this year inflation is 46 percent. I'm not talking about the whole salary, I'm talking about those who live at the minimum level, the standard of living. I want to remind my colleagues that the belt can be stretched to the back. We're going nowhere. What's going on? Against the background of these problems, the government is initiating. We have one problem: we need to carry out tax reform. The main element and most problematic element of this reform is the reduction in the income of the Pension Fund twice. Let's look at this situation. In fact, it needs to be complemented by the liquidation of the Pension Fund. The pension fund is unable to pay pensions. Then we need to talk about eliminating the insurance system. The government is trying to balance this part of the cost by 70 billion dollars on what sources? You've already noticed, at the expense of local budgets, including. When it comes to increasing the resources of local budgets, you have to talk about the whole resource, it's just your own income. And the second part, the main part is 56 percent, is the income that goes with subsidies and transfers. Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u57	Wait a minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u58	together. You know, I didn't agree on a lot of things, but how can I do it today and tomorrow? And that's where the budget balance is based. For me, there's a lot of doubt about those incomes that are balanced at 70 billion dollars. Is there a real budget income figure? Friends, GDP is growing by 2 percent, inflation by 12 percent, budget revenue by making adjustments to the National Bank and additional import duties by 30 percent. How could that be? Then either inflation is wrong, inflation is much higher, or we are facing an unheard of growth. This year's situation will repeat itself – inflation is much higher. Higher inflation is increasing spending on social protection. Last thing I want to say. The possibility of compromising existing tax standards is highly questionable. That's impossible. And I strongly urge the government: the most problematic part of the solutions is your tax reform. It can't be transformed in the way you've prepared it. And the main element that will allow you to compromise is to take your hands off the pensioners! Don't move Ukrainian pensioners! And we'll find the necessary solutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u59	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! You and I are witnesses when almost two years of new power, a new coalition, when almost a year of new government is conducting economic and social experiments on the country. We see that there's a budget for the next year that's not the industrial recovery budget, it's not the economic recovery budget, it's the social food budget, it's the country's robbery, and it's essentially the country. You look at the figures that are set, again, 107 billion dollars we're planning to engage loans to the state of Ukraine. You'll see that the population's social income has fallen by almost 35 percent. You see, there's no infrastructure projects in the budget, there's no goal that we're going to be reinvigorating over the course of the year, and what field are we going to take from our knees to give it a growth in the economy? Even the agrarian sector, which is the most influential and profitable in the country today, is trying, like that last milk cow, to cut down to remove the last penny into the budget. Would you look at what was done with the Tax Code? There's no change. If all entrepreneurs, businessmen, industrialists expected the Investment Tax Code, the growth of the economy, which is where you can think about how to put money and invest money in new production, now practically business is starting to think after these novels of the Tax Code, that you have to put money just in tickets abroad and get out of this country. What are you leading the country to? Where are we bringing her? There is a key requirement. The new Tax Code should allow business to rise from its knees and raise the economy. We have to do industry regeneration and there has to be a new budget, through the Tax Code to industrialists, to entrepreneurs that we support, we give them the opportunity to get back on their feet. There's got to be a reduction in the tax rate, the pressure on the salary to actually start breathing the economy today. The issue of social protection must be raised. You see how much people's income has fallen? Would you look at how many pensions have fallen? There is no way for people today to live for the money the state gives them, it's ridiculous, not pay their wages and pensions. What we're talking about is that we need to urgently review all the social standards. A lot has been said before the elections, and this has been the last months of the new tariff policy, which has led to the destruction of the population. Where are the answers to these questions in the new budget? There's nothing. They said: coalition, government, and they forgot about it. So once again, we put a key requirement: we look at the budget, we put the economic recovery in the budget, we set the lines that will make it possible to raise production, we raise the industry. To enable the development of new directions: agrarian, IT, etc. and so on, and with the recovery of the economy, we will then be able to restore Ukraine and give social growth to the population. And today's budget code and budget proposals are a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u61	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u62	These are, in fact, economic and social experiments over the country. I'm going to the government, finish these social experiments, otherwise in the spring you're going to have a government not a tariff floor anymore, but you're going to have the whole country that's going to go out on the field, rise up because social impoverishment and you're just going to get people to the extremes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u63	Please, the People's Front, Paul Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are meeting today for the next session of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's understandable that the extracurricularity is caused by the very need for us to discuss in presentation mode, in exchange for our "constitution of life" for the next year. You know, now that this discussion is happening, I remember last year, just like December, there were trees in the hall. And you and I discussed the budget, we discussed the Tax Code, the Budget Code. There were also many criticisms, very often fair criticisms, very often criticisms, which were very carefully studied in factions, in our expert boards, and, above all, criticism that was heard by our coalition government. What do we have today? We have a lot of money in the budget code that we've set up with you, and it worked. Budget decentralization worked. We had the new tax code, so something worked out that we still need to improve both in the administration and in the tax collection, and so on. But we were able to actually solve the big question of reducing the external debt, restructuring it, writing down a large part of the external debt. Local budgets have lived this year, even without the expectation of such a serious money-recovery at the beginning of the year, 30-40 percent of the local budget overrun. In a single treasury account at the end of this year, we have an unprecedented amount of money that is calculated in tens of billions of dollars. We talked about all of this, we discussed it last December, and together we came up with normal, compromise decisions. Convinced that this year we have to go this way and that's normal, and that's normal. Only in the discussion will we be able to get the government in the middle of the coalition, between the coalition and the opposition, which is also normal, to make optimal decisions on the Tax Code and on the new rates, on the Budget Code, which also certainly needs to be corrected, and on a sufficiently radical basis, and, of course, on the main document for 2016, 2016, we have to adopt the budget in a balanced way, while maintaining better budgetary achievements for 2015. Let's do it together, and we call on the government, and the factions of the coalition, and the factions that don't join the coalition, only together will we be able to achieve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u65	Please, Mikola Skorik, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u66	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, the honourable members of the government, the distinguished Ukrainian community, have really talked about this today in this room, perhaps we should have considered first the issue of changes to tax legislation, all that package of laws that the government is offering us with the budget for the next year. But if we're already looking at the budget outside the Rules first, I'm going to allow myself a few words just for the income and expenditure portion of our main financial document for next year. The government is proposing to increase the income portion of the budget to 601 billion dollars, 14 percent as compared to last year. For 75 billion, it is proposed to change the rates of existing fiscal taxes and 9 billion to new taxes. If the government already requires society and the business of new taxes and, indeed, clearly makes the situation worse in the economy and in business, I think that both business and society should expect that the budget expenditure will be directed more effectively than is proposed in this draft budget. First of all, we believe that this concerns the question of wage and pension indexation. The indexation of only 12 and a half percent of wages and pensions -- and this government is proposing as a plan, let's say compensation, a plan for inflation next year -- we're well aware that it's not enough to actually make a real compensation. And if we have almost 50 percent of what we do today, we can only imagine what's going to happen next. Next question. The government proposes to reduce health subsidies by 2 and a half billion, along with other cuts. This is in our country, where health care is still effectively affected by the inability to perform its functions directly. Perhaps the government is proposing that our doctors pay the money for going to work. And the question is, what did we really have to see in the budget is the point of growth? This has already been discussed today. And one of the growth points is our agro-industrial complex. If this budget has a fivefold reduction in agricultural expenditure, such as a fivefold reduction in animal welfare expenditure, in our country where agriculture today gives almost 30 percent of foreign currency to the economy, the arrival of foreign currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u67	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u68	We think it's a crime. There are quite a lot of questions about reducing the benefits and transferring them to local budgets. We realize that these benefits will not be fulfilled. In view of all this, the Opposition Block clearly states that for this draft budget and for this package of so-called laws they have in the government's view, we will not vote on the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u69	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is now a key bill of the country -- the Budget Act -- in Parliament. Look in the government's bed. Just pay attention right now. The Prime Minister, when the faction leaders speak, does not exist in the hall. The Minister of Finance conducts culinary negotiations with MPs, and all ministers are also interested in talking to MPs. In fact, this budget, its discussion, and all that it has to do with it are simply not needed by the government. I don't understand why. But where should we start? Unfortunately, because of government policy, we have become accustomed to the fact that neither the Constitution nor the laws apply during the budgetary process. Someone pointed out that we are now considering a bill on a non-existent tax base on non-existent social laws. We have 64 billion dollars of income in our budget today without laws. Please tell me, what have we come to as the Supreme Council? There is no budget resolution for 9 months, no tax laws, no tax laws, six months ago. Moreover, three months ago the budget had to be in Parliament. He doesn't exist. The government is anti-constitutional, and today it is destroying the entire system of our nation's legislation. But at the same time, why are we doing all this? We do all of this solely for one purpose so that people can live better in our country. For 2 years, this government under the government and the Prime Minister, look at the slide. You know, the key number for the world is the gross domestic product per capita in currency, which is how all countries define how we live. In 2 years, 1.9 times the gross domestic product per capita fell, was $4,000, it was $2,000 160. The bottom line is politics. Now, please look at what's going on with the woolly inner product, and the macro indicators on which the budget is based today just have to be thrown into the trash. We have 2.2 times in real measure, currency, gross domestic product fell, not even in global wars in some countries. What are we doing with the country? In this budget, an unacceptable tax base, 3 million small entrepreneurs who are self-employed, will virtually be thrown into the streets with their families and with their hired workers. Please tell me, whose policy is this? The crops that keep our GDP on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u71	For justice's sake, one minute, finish, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u72	The crops that have held our GDP in their hands for almost the last few years are practically destroyed by small farms, the tax system is destroyed and transferred to the general tax system, that's their death. Next. What we didn't see in this budget was that all the leftovers were canceled, they took everything from orphans, single moms, they took everything from pensioners. There is no social support left in this budget. And most importantly, we're still being pushed into a debt pit. There's 3.7 percent of the budget deficit, 83.7 billion will have to be borrowed. We'll just be beggars with you. In two years, debt is equal to gross domestic product. It was always less than 30 percent. This budget is a judgment of the state. This is the budget of forgiveness: either we say goodbye to the government, or we say goodbye to the country. And that's why we need this budget as unacceptable to send the government to work with the resignation of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u73	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear brothers and sisters who are now under the Supreme Council! Tens of thousands of people have come, this is an evaluation of the government's activities, this is an evaluation of the government's activities. What are you offering us? I want to tell the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, if you don't know, because given the crap you brought to the Supreme Council, you don't know exactly that the budget and the Tax Code are two main tools for the development of the country. That's what they're supposed to do. In the 47th year after the war, when France was in ruins when it lost its colonies, General De Gaulle's merchant fleet declared: "Modernization or death!".. That is what our country needs today. Modernization of the economy, industry, steel park, modernization of agricultural production, creation of jobs that will save the country! If you predict 2 percent of GDP growth next year, we'll go to Uganda 25 years, and to Switzerland 250 years at your rate. And so if we want to radically -- I'm talking to my fellow MPs, I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens -- if we want to radically change the country, to radically increase the standard of living of people, to radically increase wages and pensions, we have no other way than to radically modernize our economy. Industry is the backbone of the economy, export, export support. Look abroad, some Turks and Chinese, and there must be Ukrainian goods, and the state must support them. And our peasants can't go to the internal market in commercial networks. You're destroying small and medium-sized businesses. Instead of using business, giving it opportunities for development, freeing it, as a minimum, for a year from taxation, so that they can get on their feet, earn money for their family, and bring income to the state budget. We are today the first to export oil crops, export grain crops. There are no animals, there are no processing, there are no jobs in the country. The same thing is Naftogaz, the same energy is monopoly, abuse, oligarchy. As a result, we pay large tariffs. As a result, we pay billions for corruption. So our idea is, don't go on the clock, don't take your job, get out of here, tell people your program, tell them how to live. The Radical Party proposes: modernization of the country, radical economic change, and a radical increase in the standard of living of people. Only this will make it possible to live a decent life in the country. With this policy you're proposing, it's beggar politics, it's a policy of defeat, it's a policy of default! We must put an end to this shameful policy!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u75	Now, look, now it's all there is to it. I propose in the government to consider creating a ministry of modernization and offering factions to lead. That's me. Please, National Deputy Andriy Derkac, People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies and you, citizens of the Ministers, the “Will of the People”, require you, citizens and members of the Government, to take into account the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, article 3, where the highest social value is determined by a person, his life, health and rights, freedoms and guarantees determine the meaning and direction of the activities of the Power. Not your commitment to IMF corporations, the recommendations of misunderstood experts, namely the Constitution of Ukraine. While you, the civil ministers with “watchers” from the coalition, shared corrupt financial flows and “Neftegaza” and “Ukrispirta”, the Odessa Porting Plant, conducted a live show, members of the “will of the people” group, including through the budgetary committee, requested the Government not to touch, cut down on the most disadvantaged and sensitive areas: pensioners, education, health, science, farmers, self-employed people, entrepreneurs. There is no professional conversation with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. With your proposed draft budget today, the Tax Code, the amendment to the Budget Code, you offer underfunding for 8 billion dollars in health care. I mean, you're offering to kill people without medical attention. By violating the Constitution, you destroy the future of children and young people by underfunding education for 4 billion. In doing so, you propose that the first and second levels of accreditation and the PTU, which we have on the ground, are effectively destroyed by both Chicago and Dusseldorf, have a social function other than education, where the most underprivileged children are taught. You close 90 per cent of rural schools by measuring the number of students in your classrooms. You take 2.7 billion bracelets from science, lowering Ukraine to underdeveloped countries. You choose local budgets under the slogans of decentralization by collecting stable taxes in return for myths and tales of real estate taxes from non-profit industries, imposing taxes on homes and homes of the poor. According to the authors of this anti-constitutional package of laws and budgets, the transfer of concessions, child nutrition to local budgets without funding is the purpose and purpose of decentralization. You undermine the foundations of proactive citizens working in small and medium-sized businesses by increasing taxes and by introducing fiscal controls through cash registers, turning self-employed people into dependants, unemployed people, gastrobytes. Apparently intruder gastrolers, the developers of this anti-national package didn't think we could run from old age. You therefore propose to reintroduce a pension tax, verify pensioners for 5 billion, covering humiliating checks and discrimination against elderly people with the clever word “verification”. Where to get the money, we told you. It's an opaque budget from the Ministry of Defence and a 100 billion-dollar defence budget, that's theft.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u77	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u78	And a life of leisure from Nazbank to the budget, which you reduced from 60 billion to 34 next year. The last proposed Act on the Legalization of Casinos and Gambling is the top of the cynicism and lobbyism of the people we see on television going to church. There will be no vote on any of the bills proposed by the Government today by the “will of the people”. We are opposed to such philosophy and approaches to the destruction of the State and the population. In addition, today, members of the People's Will Group issued a Supreme Council decree recognizing the Government's work in 2015, including the preparation and content of the 2016 budget, which is unsatisfactory. Each of you will bear, comrade ministers or citizens of ministers, the word “citizens of ministers” will be used to personal responsibility. Please put him to the vote. And those colleagues who are state officials and have the responsibility to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u79	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u80	Either goodbye to the government or goodbye to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u81	Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Golovo, Mr. Prime Minister! I want you all to remember last year when we had a lot of disgust and difficulty in accepting this budget. But with great hope that we and the government will succeed in 2015. The people of the country and we understood that this success would not be great, but each of us expected that this success would be institutional. And what we're going to do is, at the end of December, we're going to create it in April, in July, we're going to get it in September. And unfortunately, we're here again today because the government led by the Prime Minister just cheated on us for a year, and we put up with it. We put up with this in order to obtain the budget and tax reform. And today we get a working group that has five days to do what has to be done in a year. And that means where we were, where we stayed, and this is our fiasco with you. Because we believed, not we created a system of transparency and institutionalism in Parliament, and government, manual administration. And as a result, we're precisely destroying small and medium-sized businesses with this budget, we're destroying small and medium-sized businesses in the country, and we're planning on destroying a non-existent, practically quality health system. And the budgets of cities, honourable colleagues, will be funded in this budget at the 2013 level, 2013. The foundation for the development of a state institution -- local self-government -- is simply physically plundered and they know it because it's already rah-wa-la-la. I'm not talking about the basics that we talk about so much about -- education. It doesn't exist in this budget today, it's mimicry, it's left at last year's level, it's not local authorities, it doesn't belong to places that don't belong to it. But we have to do something, we can't as a state institution say something bad, and we'll do something good. Today, in fact, this proposal for all of us working groups is the only thread of hope when we can accept the budget. But we are convinced that this budget should have two approaches. First. They're supposed to be elements of lower tax pressure on the country's business, because it's the blood of the country that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u83	Please, just give me a minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u84	And the second question, honourable Members of Parliament, is up to you. If you look at every budget article in 2016, every number, you'll definitely find at least 100 billion bracelets that are inefficiently used, that are hidden by the schemes, and that we should open to people on the committees, and publicly. We did it in part with you last year, under those two conditions, your honors, we're ready to work day and night, and we're willing to accept the budget, because this is our job. So let's get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u85	Please, Your Honor, we've got 15 minutes on schedule to speak to the national MPs, please. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign in from the deputies. Please, Aresonkov, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Aresonkov, Peter Dustenka's Block. Today, much has been said about the attention to be given to strategic areas. And there were different directions: someone was talking about the economic development, someone was talking about the need to pay attention to the legalization of the game business, that is, everyone has their own vision. But I want to point out that if we want Ukraine to be really new and modern, let's focus on education and science. And we're going to be consistent, if we want new education and science, we have to increase funding, or think about where to look for funds to keep what is, rather than cut costs, and say that it's something new in the formation of tax policy or government budget. So please take into account the opinions of many of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u88	It is unfortunate that the factions are given only three minutes to discuss the budget because it is a fundamental document and cannot be discussed in three minutes. But I thank you for the opportunity, and I would like to continue. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the word "decentralisation" has been living for at least the last two years, but the budget that we have been offered is the budget for the hard centralization of all financial resources in the central budget and in the hands of the government. We see from the budget that 42 percent of the local budget expenditure from the total budget expenditure was sent in 2014 to the area, cities, districts, villages and villages. Now the government's down to 38 percent. This means that the government transferred authority to the local level of education, health care, and all benefits — 62 billion dollars in total — but did not transfer the money to the local level. And that means that every local community that accepts this budget is going to go bankrupt. Because they didn't fund the education of the workers' specialties -- that's PTU and basic higher education -- college for 8 billion bracelets for local budgets. They didn't fund public education schools for 6.4 billion in general throughout the country, that's the end of our education, that's almost half of what they had. In addition, everything there was was cut short for science. A country that does not develop its science simply disappears as a participant in all world processes. In addition, local budgets have reduced the cost of health care by 8.8 billion. What does the government do? No doubt all the benefits have been cancelled. But separately, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that pensions and wages are not indexed. The government said 12 percent in total. This is a lie, 12 percent is an index in December, and an average of 4.1 percent per year. That means that the second year when inflation is going crazy, and inflation is just as much as the bracelet is down, we don't index people's income. And the result is the decline in the economy, because without people's income, the economy doesn't live. And the last is tariffs. Declined. You know the price of gas is going down, imported. And the budget has the same unacceptable, excessive tariffs that have already destroyed people’s lives. We're like deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u90	As an MP, we need to know that we live and work for the people. In two years, people lost all their savings, and they had nothing left. This budget is a budget for the burial of our country and our people. You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u91	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, of course, the bill on the State Budget for the following year, 2016, has nothing to do with budgetary decentralization, nothing to do with the protection of social rights and guarantees offered by the State in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill and procedure for adopting the bill are similar to that of last year. We are very much now in this plenary room to hear some coalition representatives say that the bill is antisocial and does not need to be voted for. Then why did you vote on the 2015 Bill last year? Because the basic conceptual positions of this bill, 2016, are similar. And what's the scary, I'd say, analogy? In fact, the State has refused to pay so many social benefits and guarantees that the State has provided. Look at the "Transitional Positions" of this bill. In a very large number of socially vulnerable types of people, and this is teachers, these are disabled children, these are orphans -- they're deprived of adequate social benefits. Accordingly, the state says the government is saying that it is very effective in carrying out its activities, and so the macroeconomic indicators in the State Budget Bill will allow the economy to grow. Why, then, do you restructure your debt for judicial decisions? 7.5 billion dollars. You agree to pay only 10 percent. In doing so, 90 percent of the restructuring is done, and under 9 percent of the year-olds are restructured. The government also noted that only 12 percent of high social standards were raised. You've already heard from a presentation announced by the finance minister that inflation was only 50 percent this year. The following year, inflation will not be lower. And according to whether or not the decline in the purchasing power of the population, that increase in social costs is negligible. I mean, the bill is discriminatory. Why? Because for the population, particularly the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, and especially for the local budgets of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, the spending does not increase, and this is due to the significant destruction of the infrastructure, because of the poverty of the population as a result of the military activities that occur in the country. I want to point out that the bill is unique because the deficit is the greatest in history in all of the country's history. 83 billion dollars. And no matter how well the minister of finance speaks, we haven't had that kind of deficit. We didn't have the same level of government debt and government-guaranteed debt, which is 95 percent of GDP, which is 2.2 trillion dollars in the equivalent. This bill is destructive to medical science. Against the backdrop of an unprecedented increase in military requirements, the need for national defence and security of 103 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u93	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u94	Thank you. And accordingly, because of the antisociality of the bill, because of the culinaryness of its adoption, because the budgetary process, in accordance with the Constitution, should take longer, we insist on its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Sergey Ruddick, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u96	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila Kamyanka, Cherkas region Dear colleagues, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, observed yesterday a lively discussion of his colleagues, who had a direct share with the Minister of Finance, the prime minister, the deputy minister of finance. What were we talking about yesterday? We talked yesterday, we briefly said that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. We don't recognize this version of the budget, because it's based on the draconian social cost cuts in a lot of articles. I personally care about two things. We talk about decentralization a lot. There is a tool, such as the State Regional Development Fund, which, to some extent, instead of predicting it within the framework of the current budget code 1 percent of the total budget, amounts to 4 billion 650 million today, adding another 1 billion to the direct subsidy to the communities that have already merged. I'm going to give 1 billion dollars to communities that maybe even one and a half, but not at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund, which today is actually the only non-corruption tool for supporting local initiatives that for some reason or other have not gone into the existing one that we're going to take on the Ukraine budget. I'm not talking about what the government is planning to do. Not from the general fund, the experts know what it's about, but from the special fund with the confiscation of property, the sale of confiscated assets of precursors. Are you sure, citizens of honor, that this article will be made by 100 percent, 13 billion people all over the country? For example, I am not, and I am very concerned because this will put the cross on a large number of sites that can be funded locally. As a national MP, I'm very concerned about why military spending has been increased by only 1 percent, while the National Police spending is up to 17. What does the National Police risk more their lives than the boys at the ATO? I'm not talking about wage levels anymore. The president from the high hall said that this amount would be 6,000 dollars, and when we communicate with the First Deputy Secretary of Defense, we hear about the 2,200. Where's the truth? I'd like Minfin to have a working-time, emergency meeting and agree on these numbers. I'm not talking about cutting housing for ATOs and military personnel. In 15 years, this amount amounted to 1 billion 140 million, and in the government project, 600 million. What has been our turn for the military during this time? And the last. Respectable Society! I would like to address the chair of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, when it is still filled with a fifth point, please tell me when the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u97	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u98	All my colleagues and I listened carefully to him. Please tell me when you come out and report for work or, more honestly, for inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Opanasenko, Self-help. Alona Babak, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Government of Ukraine! Mathematical modelling of economic systems. This is the specialty of most Ukrainian universities. The second year in a row, you and I are watching the state budget of Ukraine form with a calculator. We're missing 100 billion to fund our expenses, and we're starting to look for them because of a reduction in the percentage of any tax, and in another situation, they're increasing. None can be seen at the level of government where there must be investment in budgetary resources in order to stimulate economic growth. The 35 billion dollars are projected for the following year for housing subsidies and benefits. 34 percent of Ukraine’s households today receive these subsidies. 34 percent of families from this day forward have no interest in reducing their consumption of heat or gas. These people will indeed be protected by the State. But is this normal for the state? I'll tell you that that little program that there is today supporting energy efficiency credits in housing has made a very beautiful demonstration of the growth point that has been talked about today. One bracelet of government support for energy efficiency in housing today provides 5 dollars of private investment. Five! If you and I had left $35 billion on subsidy 30, and 5 of us had invested in energy efficiency over the summer, 5 billion dollars for even 250,000 apartment buildings would have allowed us to reduce heat consumption in these buildings. Last stats. 70 percent of the pay for services is the pay for heat. 80 percent of the rent for residential services is paid for gas in private homes. If we start directing government funds on investment, support on co-financing terms, we'll give them comfort, we'll create jobs, we'll ensure the security of the state of Ukraine. And this is one, one example from all of Ukraine's economy. Dear colleagues, if the government were to work systematically and look for such growth points in every sector, in every direction, we would have a development budget today. Dear colleagues, let's ask our government to start acting strategically for our nation and to think about what we want to grow, not to do calculations on calculators when we see our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Writing complete. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we must acknowledge that the discussion of tax policy has ended with the baptism of hedgehogs and snakes and we have received a barbed wire that is practically unacceptable to any sector of social and economic life. The phrase de Gaulle was here today. I would also like to remind you of the phrase where Golla was born in 1968, which I also propose to hang on this balcony. De Gaulle briefly said, "No, it's a mess, it's a reform." This was in 1968. This is true today and here. Therefore, it is not enough simply to reject some kind of law for this Parliament. We have to take into account that today, on December 17, and yet, not just to reject government laws, but to find a reasonable compromise. First. We propose to postpone the government's edition of the Tax Code to be polished in the first quarter of the following year, so that it is introduced under the law already in 2017. The accountants should not hang on January 1. They should know that the law guarantees them new rules at least six months before the new tax year. Today, the budget needs to be adopted on the basis of the current Tax Code, which we propose to move to the parliamentary space, to improve it in the following directions. First, we need to ensure transparency of the value added tax procedure, the public register, the mechanism for redressing the exclusive order of order of application, the introduction of automatic budgetary compensation and other things that are in the so-called Southern project and our esteemed colleagues, in fact, of all factions. The other one. Tax on the income of natural persons. Save today's base with a factor of 1.4. Taxing a thousand 700s, which will save the decentralization process from collapse, will allow local self-government to be the point of growth throughout Ukraine. Third. The only tax on the simplified system. Our faction will never allow "forgivers" to just one day cross over all their achievements and the opportunity to survive in these extremely difficult conditions. So we're going to support the preservation of both the first and the second sets of tax terms in force and for legal persons the right to use the simplified system in the third group. But at the same time, we consider it necessary to reduce to 5 million dollars their turnover limit. And also from the second half, go to control, or cash machines, or special IT programs that are already being tested in tax administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u103	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u104	I'm done. The real estate tax needs to be saved in the current mode, or at least 1 percent for production, because we have to protect our own manufacturer. In addition, we insist that this year there be a possibility of refinancing, reinvestment in income tax, for industrial enterprises. Dear friends, there is much more to talk about, but this needs to be done -- it needs to be done in Parliament. It has become evident that government experts have not been able to do so, and that is what we should do with you. Because once again, it's not a question of who's more beautiful than who's going to judge the other side. The people are expecting us to have a budget and a fair, fair tax policy! And next year, we can do everything we can to make these rules even better. Dear colleagues, I call for such fruitful work without political slogans!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u105	Finish it, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u106	I'd like to see that in the tax and budgetary process, we're not Ukrainian deputies, we're not fighting for the next cadence in Parliament, we're fighting for the next cadence in the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, it was an offer, we held a meeting, and Yuri Vitaliovich generalized it. Let's move on, dear fellows. Final word, Minister of Finance. Is there no need? Colleagues, then, please, Prime Minister, the final word. And let's move on to the following questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We are very grateful for the series of constructive suggestions made by members of the Ukrainian Parliament. Every year, when the budget is under discussion, there is a lively and long-standing political debate about which budget should be adopted. We appreciate the position of members of the Ukrainian Parliament on the need for purely transparent, and this is the government's approach to the formation of the state budget in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, as it has always been throughout all the years of Ukrainian independence. We work it out, we balance it, we work together, we work together, we accept it. So I fully support the great Yuri Vitaliyovich and others who say that this is our shared responsibility, and we will do this responsibility together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Proposal for a full discussion procedure has been made: draft Law 3630 – draft Law on Competitive Conditions in Taxation and Promotion of Economic Activity in Ukraine. Please report to the Deputy Finance Minister, Helen Makeyeva. Ah, Natalia Jaresko, please for 10 minutes, complete discussion procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Today I told you about the figures, logic and philosophy of the 2016 State Budget project. And in my presentation, I was trying to explain the deep relationship between the 2016 draft State Budget Act and the six other bills that we submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. What is extremely important, I would even say, is that the main part of this draft budget is usually the government's tax reform project, which was approved by the President at the National Reform Council, which was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council under registration number 3630. I don't think anyone in this room will argue about the problems that exist today in tax legislation or the need to solve them. What tax system do we have with you today? She's complicated, she doesn't understand, she's subjective, and she's corrupt. Because of high wage taxation, it's not allowed to develop either business or the middle class, it's creating risks for the economy and its citizens, it's actually extremely unfair. Today, a teacher who receives a salary of 4,000 dollars pays 20.1 percent of taxes. At the same time, a lawyer who has a salary of $4,000, but works as an SDR, only pays 4.5 percent of taxes. So we need not just a change in legislation, but a solution to a series of individual problems, but a complex tax reform that ensures tax cuts for those who really need it. It reduces opportunities for corruption, stimulates job creation and new investment, both domestic and foreign. It provides conditions for lowering inflation and devaluation pressure because it strengthens financial stability in the country. These are the principles that we have laid down in the preparation of tax reform. The name is only the most important and principles of the proposal to reduce tax burden and level the rules of the game in the country's tax field. First: a substantial reduction in the EU’s rate from the current around 41% to 20% in 2016, with a maximum level of 25 minimum wages. In 2016, it's 34 thousand 450 dollars. I underline that natural persons will pay zero percent of the EU's GDP instead of the current 3.6 percent. Second, already in 2016 and the setting of VAT and income tax at 18 percent, the income of businesses and individuals will be taxed in the same way. Regardless of the 18 per cent VAT rate, taking into account the difference between the EU’s payment of 3.6 per cent paid by the worker and the application of a minimum social tax of 0.5 per minimum wage for those wages that do not exceed three minimum wages, the real amount of tax on wages will decrease considerably. Already a year later, in 2017, we propose to cut the VAT and income tax to 17 percent, and in two years, since 2018, we propose to halve the EU’s and PFCs by 10 percent each. Thus, the total tax burden on wages will be only 20 percent, which will be the lowest tax burden in the country. Third: income tax. In order to stimulate new investments and new jobs in the country, implement an effective mechanism of investment tax credit since 2016, allowing for 50 per cent of the accrued income tax, but not more than 30 per cent of the investment value. Saving the classic model of income tax without paying advance taxes on income tax. Also, with the aim of stimulating its own gas production in Ukraine, we propose to significantly reduce taxes on its production and reduce rent rates on gas production from the current 55 and 29, depending on the depth of its deposits, to 29 and 14, starting in 2016, to 20 and 10 percent, starting on 1 January 2018. Also, starting in 2018, we propose to introduce a 15 - percent income tax for companies producing gas in new wells. Fourthly, the restoration of VAT compensation for all producers of grain and technical crops since 1 January 2016. At the same time, we propose to start a gradual transition of farmers from the application of the special tax regime to the general tax system on 1 January 2017. In doing so, in order to facilitate such a transition for Ukrainian companies, both the government and the President made a concerted effort to persuade the International Monetary Fund to do so. We suggest that a transitional period be introduced in one year, during which the proportion of VAT producers will be distributed: 75 percent will reach the state budget and 25 percent will remain at the disposal of the farmer. This will leave the company with 6.6 billion dollars next year. Fifth, on a simplified tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today there are many different speculations about the simplified system and its potential impact on our tax reform project. Some say that in this reform project, the simplified system seems to be being eliminated. Some say that taxes seem to go up by tens of times. In view of this, let me actually answer these speculations, to demonstrate their baselessness. First, there's never been any talk of eliminating a simplified tax system. On the contrary, we suggest that we make it focused on supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Because today's simplified system works so that the poorest, the smallest entrepreneurs pay the most. A primer who works in a second group with an annual income of 72 thousand dollars, or 6,000 dollars a month, today pays 12.6 percent of the tax. It's about an effective tax rate, that is. the ratio of the amount of taxes paid to income. At the same time, the primer who works for the same second group, but has 1.2 million dollars of income a year, or 100,000 dollars a month, pays an effective tax rate of only 0.7 percent. Is that fair to a small entrepreneur? Does this create incentives to enter the market and start your own business? Of course not. And so in order to create these incentives, we have to change this system, improve it, and that's what we suggest you do. We suggest that we tax not the income of the simplifieds of over 300,000 dollars, but just the profit, which is the profit, calculated without any special calculation, but just at the coefficient. This will allow the system to create a progressive system instead of the present, regressive system. And our prime earner, who earns 76,000 dollars, is going to pay twice as much taxes, less taxes, not 12.6 percent, but only 5.7 percent. At the same time, the same 5.7 percent, not the current 0.7 percent, will also pay the one who gets 1.2 million dollars of income. Yes, for him it would mean an increase in taxes, there is truth. But this is an increase from a measly 0.7 percent to, we're going to tell the truth, just like a measly 5.7 percent total. Against the background of the fact that large businesses pay both income taxes, VAT, taxes, and salary taxes, and so on. At the same time, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, that would mean an increase in taxation for someone who earns 1.2 million dollars right up to the same level that pays, really, a small entrepreneur. By doing so, we will lower the barrier to the entry of new entrepreneurs into the market, level the tax burden within the system, and make it fairer. More wealthy people have to pay more. And those who today protest any change in the simplified system that requires the preservation of the status quo, which instigates its ordinary entrepreneurs. protesting, in fact, just trying to preserve his privileged position when the rich are paid for by poorer, smaller entrepreneurs who are simply being manipulated. Finally, another important issue about the simplified system is that we propose to close down the possibility of working on a simplified system for legal persons. Deputies! If not all of you, perhaps some of you have dinner at social food establishments from time to time, and you all know very well that Kiev has large restaurant networks, huge fragmented networks that have hundreds, some thousands, and thousands of people who are formed as SDR groups. We all know that many legal persons use a simplified system to minimize taxation. In fact, it's made into a legal internal offshore, sort of.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u111	How long? How much longer? Please give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u112	They're creating a legal internal offshore, like the Ukrainian Belize. We firmly believe that a simplified system of taxation has to work, to work for small entrepreneurs, to help those who are about to start their business. But it certainly shouldn't be a tool that makes huge companies with billions of dollars billion, not millions! – avoid paying taxes. That is why we propose to close down the possibility of using a simplified system for legal persons. I also want to warn you that one kind of speculation that's going to make all the lawyers working on the SDR shut down immediately. This is what we consider to be completely false and this risk is negligible. Some say that shutting down the ability to work for simplification means eliminating it as such. It's also not true, it's not legal persons, it's individuals who are entrepreneurs, for whom we want to preserve and improve the simplified system. In the 14th year, 71 percent or 5.4 billion dollars were provided from a simplified system, that's 982,000 small entrepreneurs, and they're going to continue to work on a simplified system, and no one's going to take them away, but for the rest of them, there's not even going to be any significant changes. As I go back to the other provisions of the government tax reform project, I want to separate a few other important proposals. In particular, that this project takes into account the main progressive provisions of the bill amending the Tax Code on Tax Liberalization, 3357, introduced by a group of Ukrainian national deputies in charge of Nina Southanina and you, and very many of you, honourable deputies. For example, the introduction of an electronic tax payer’s office, the identification of principles, and the mechanisms for its functioning. Second, improving VAT compensation from the budget, which will ensure the same requirements and rights for all tax payers, taking into account the timeliness of the payment of fees to payers. Official publications on VAT compensation from the budget have been introduced in the form of a register, reflecting the data on the taxpayer of the claimed damages. So, honourable Members, we offer you a reform that will allow you to create a simple investment attractive, much fairer tax environment with less competitive wage taxation. And the main thing. The government is proposing a tax reform that can be balanced in the budget, which not only reduces taxes, but also preserves the economic stability that we have achieved so hard. You all realize that if inflation increases at an ambiguous rate and the rate is unpredictable, no enterprise will invest in its own development, because it will not be able to predict the return of these investments. And the inflation tax itself, the extraordinary variation of the course will be the main obstacles to business development in the past and at the beginning of the current years. If you support the government's tax reform project, I understand that the following year a new edition of the Ukrainian Tax Code will take effect later. At the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u113	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u114	At the same time, the changes that affect the formation of the income part of the 16th budget will take effect on January 1st. This bill will also introduce a moratorium on changes to tax legislation for a three-year period, from January 1st 16th to 18th. This means that Ukrainian business will have the guarantee that tax rules will not get worse next year. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support for the Tax Reform Project, which already has the support of the government, the President and the National Reform Board, the International Monetary Fund and many other internationally recognized international economists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Natalie, but stay on the rostrum, according to the full procedure, it's now three minutes of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u116	I'm just gonna go over there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u117	You can go from there. Yes. Yes. There's no problem. Dear colleagues! We have three minutes to ask the MPs. Please sign up for the question. Please turn on the writing system. People's deputy Bublik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u119	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, actually, I'd like to go to the chairman first. Unfortunately, Groysman's gone, only a vice-speaker left. According to the Supreme Council's Rules, if any MP denies it. Time. The number of time to discuss this, you have to put it to a vote. This is a direct requirement of the Rules and it is impossible to discuss the budget in five minutes, it is not possible to discuss the Tax Code in three minutes. Actually, I have a question for Mrs. Natalia. Take. It's once again presented to us as a Western expert who seems to be introducing Western standards to us in Ukraine. Mrs. Natalie, you've declared a few million incomes over the past year, and please tell me what would be the cumulative full rate of your income, the personal income tax itself, if you didn't live in Ukraine like today, but if you lived in Britain, for example, what would be the percentage in Britain of your personal income tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u120	I can't tell you how it is in Britain, but I can tell you that I am a former American citizen who was a resident in Ukraine and paid the first tax here as a resident 20 percent on my salary. I didn't have it, someone said dividends before, I didn't have dividends, I had dividends. Most of them are 95 percent -- it was pay. So I paid 20 percent here and I paid an extra difference in America because there's a higher rate effective in America, so I paid up to 35-36 percent. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u123	Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Natal, when considering the Tax Code in the Tax Committee, everyone was very surprised that in the Tax Code you did not take any steps to set the order for the de-offshoring of transfer pricing. We're just very surprised. You talk a lot about what it takes to pay off the rich, but unfortunately, you've removed your obligation from the Cabinet of Ministers to publish a list of offshore companies, which means business is just in an unknown state. And second of all, you put the transferables down on small and medium-sized businesses, but you didn't introduce them to the oligarchs. And secondly, Mrs. Jaresko, you need not only the country of Ukraine to love, but you have to love the people of Ukraine and count, because when you talk about the simplified tax system and the abuse. And we suggested that we could do the math to show that we're simplified.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u125	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u126	Unfortunately, you were not politically responsible when you introduced an import congregation, you had to resign because it was unnecessary. Will he be held accountable, is anyone gathered for this Tax Code that leads to a business funeral today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u127	I'm just deciding that the first thing is the second thing. First answer. I take responsibility. The import tax worked correctly, it worked from the point of view of the balance of payments. It worked correctly from the point of view that it was completely temporary. We propose to cancel it on December 31st of this year, from January 1st of the following year. He was right in view of the fact that he did his job and that we no longer need him. In terms of transfer pricing. There were never lists or lists of businesses themselves. There was a list of so - called offshore areas. And this is in agreement with these countries. And countries that unfortunately didn't want countries to be defined themselves, and our diplomats and I decided that we didn't have to publish. Because they're both criteria, and so and so, and they determine which countries they are. But when we were with you, and this is a reality, in a situation where we wanted every country to vote for our associations with the European Union. It was very painful for our partners too. So we leave them as they are. If they fall under the criteria, nothing changes. We simply do not publish their names. The criteria are the same and everything is treated the same way. As for the administration of the transferable formation, I'm going to ask Helen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u128	I want to point out that existing legislation provides criteria for controlled operations. These controlled operations include external economic transactions involving persons associated with or residents of low tax jurisdictions. And there's a 50 million dollar limit in current legislation. We know that this restriction leads to companies deliberately sharing farm operations so that they don't exceed that threshold. We propose to remove this threshold, but leave it that controlled operations are distributed only to related persons and to those jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than in Ukraine. But at the same time, we take the responsibility of a small and medium-sized business with annual turnover of up to 20 million dollars to prepare documentation for market price confirmation in the framework of transfer pricing. And in addition, we're offering to group these operations in the report. In this way we focus on controlling household operations with large volumes where there is really avoidance and fraud, and for small and medium-sized businesses, we take away.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will now be factions from the factions, speeches from the deputies, and you will be able to perform, not with a replica, but with a full performance. We're about to have 24 minutes of factions of three minutes under the Rules. And I'm very much asking, fellow members of the factions to sign up for the factions. Please record and log in. Please, national deputy galasjuk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The tax reform proposed by the government is a consistent continuation of the wrong economic policy. This policy reminds me of a fairy tale, only worse because the end will be very unhappy. When they tell us about far-reaching economic reforms, I ask, where are the results? Unfortunately, I was able to hear them during the government report. And the rate of any reform in all countries is very simple and clear: it's the level of employment and the creation of new jobs, it's the involvement of investments in the country, it's the level of citizens' income, it's the level of prices and tariffs, it's the amount of agricultural and industrial production, it's the export of national products abroad. Well, none of these are positive dynamics, none of which are positive. Show me these changes because they're gone! Privatization, play business and amber production, which the Prime Minister stressed from this rostrum, will not pull the Ukrainian economy out of the abyss. The Ukrainian economy will be pulled out of the gap: machine-building, metallurgy, agrarian sector, including food industry, light industry, Ukrainian science, small business, who will pull the Ukrainian economy out of the abyss. We have a particular emphasis to make on the development of scientific and technological production, on the IT industry and other similar new industries, where high productivity, where high wages, where there will be high numbers, according to the budget. I want to tell you that this is a priority for Ukraine, we have to understand today how the Ukrainian Parliament in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. Moreover, the honourable Minister says that this tax reform project is supported by the President's Administration, the Government and the National Reform Board. So what I'm saying is that then these bodies don't understand what economic reforms really are and they have the wrong idea. Because economic reform is not about stalling the population, it's not raising tariffs, it's not eliminating the simplified tax system, it's not taxing pensions, it's not economic reform. Economic reforms are the demonopolization of the economy, it is the creation of new industries, the introduction of investment incentives for capital not to flee from Ukraine, but to come to Ukraine. It's a simplification of business, it's support for small businesses, it's industrial development, it's overcoming unemployment and raising social standards, that's what real economic reforms are. And the only thing I want to say about this tax reform is that if there's no political will to accept the correct tax reform 3357, let's at least fail to eliminate the simplified tax system, so that it doesn't eliminate the special VAT regime for farmers, so that they don't eliminate the benefits for industry today on industrial real estate, which may just a little bit allow them to survive this economic winter. In fact, if tax reform does not achieve two main objectives, childishization of the economy, output.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u131	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u132	If tax reform does not achieve two goals, remove the economy from the shadows and ensure economic growth, it is not tax reform, it is a disgraceful imitation, it is a round run that leaves Ukraine in the third raw world at Africa's level, and we need to go to Europe. And in order to move to Europe, we need to adopt tax reform and the Tax Code, and we need to adopt the budget, which will be the instrument, the involvement of investments, the creation of new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u133	Thank you. Dudenko's Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, it's ending in 2015, and we're starting to talk again about tax reform. Now there's been a lot of claims that the tax system of Ukraine is complicated, it's too fiscal, it's not stimulating the development of domestic enterprises, it's not stimulating production. Did the changes proposed by the bill change, bill 3630? Probably not. Does anyone believe from the national MPs present that in a few years there will be a substantially reduced rate of VAT and EDP to 10 percent? Probably not. Why? Because the whole process and the corresponding changes to tax legislation are constant, they're permanent. Do we have stability in the tax system? Probably not. Does the government promise us to introduce a moratorium on the introduction, to make any changes to tax law? No, it's not. That is why we are constantly on the verge of tax reform each year. I would like to point out that the current government has not done very well with Bill 3630 right now, because it has published the complete Tax Code in the new edition. But after analyzing these changes, we can say that only 25 percent of the current revision of the Tax Code has been changed. Why did the government do this? It's probably for us to look at these changes less and to have a small and non-systemic vision of what the government wants and what it invests for the implementation of the budget next year. And what does the government really suggest? The government is proposing to increase the VAT rate from 15 per cent to 18 per cent, and it is proposing to increase the maximum amount of the EU budget base from 17 minimum wages to 25 minimum wages. It does not exclude false taxation of pensions, it does not cancel the military congregation, which derives from everything, practically from everything. It is suggested that a simplified system of taxation be destroyed, and it is proposed that all legal persons be excluded. It is suggested that the simplified tax system of agricultural enterprises be excluded from the system by destroying the agricultural sector. It is suggested that the payment of a single tax for accountancy registrars be introduced, and these account registrars offer to compensate for the chronically deficient local budgets. It is suggested that a real estate tax be imposed on both housing and nonresidential property. As a result, residents of the village will pay a tax on immovable property other than land for their farm buildings. Everyone here is talking about the agar sector, but why aren't they talking about increasing the rent? In particular, an increase in wages is proposed. Ten seconds. I'm sorry, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u135	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u136	Thank you. It is suggested to increase the taxation of rent payments, particularly for iron ore, but these are the highest rates of rent on iron ore. Decisions are being made accordingly to put an end to mining and mining enterprises, and this is already a blow to our domestic economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u137	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u138	I'm asking for a substantial revision of the bill, because in the way it's proposed, it's not reform, it's propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u139	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies, members of the government, today about 10,000 agrarians have taken part in a protest against the Supreme Council and have asked me to read out a letter to the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the President of Ukraine from the agrarians of Ukraine. "Dear National MPs, members of the government, Mr. President! We are representatives of the agricultural sector of Ukraine: the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Ukrainian Agrarian Confederation, the Union of Birds of Ukraine, the Agrarian Union of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Agrarian Business Club, the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine and the Agrarian Party of Ukraine urge you to reject the proposals of the Ministry of Finance for abolishing the special VAT regime, fixed agricultural taxes and increasing agricultural taxation. Agrarians find it unacceptable and criminal to approve a draft version of the Tax Code proposed by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and registered by the Supreme Council, Bill 3630. In fact, this bill destroys a whole range of agricultural sectors, leading to increased unemployment, rural poverty, and rising prices for Ukrainian food products. Yes, Bill 3630 envisages the cancellation of a special VAT during a transitional period, the provision of agrarians is proposed to leave only 20 percent, 25 percent of the accumulated VAT and to restore VAT compensation in the export of cereals and technical crops. Such an approach will deepen the crisis that is currently being experienced by domestic - market farmers. The result is a decline in the production of Ukrainian milk, meat, vegetables, fruit, grapes, and the increase in prices for them, in the production of crops, to 20 percent. The restrictions on the right to use the only tax of the fourth group of simplified taxation systems and fixed agricultural taxes only by enterprises that have turnover of less than 2 million, equivalent to 50-70 hectares of processing, despite the absence of any calculations to confirm that these changes will lead to an increase in the income of the budget, Minfin proposes to force farmers to keep an account and prepare tax documentation that opens up the widest possible way to collect fines from them for formal errors, expands the opportunities for corruption and places an absurd burden on the farmer to administer the income tax. Law 3630 also does not take into account the critical importance of the agricultural sector of Bill 3357, prepared by the Tax Committee of the Supreme Council, in the area of improving the administration of VAT. It's the destruction of corruption and the abolition of VAT administration, the reduction of the state fiscal service's ability to unwarrantedly withdraw tax credit. Taking into account this, we, farmers, members of the All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Ukrainian Agrarian Confederation, the Union of Birds of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Agrarian Business Club, the Association of Farmers and Private Landowners of Ukraine and the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, require the government to withdraw Bill 3630, in the event of its further development, to exclude the relevant positions. We also urge the National Deputies to reject Government Bill 3630 and prepare for the first time in Ukraine's new history.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u141	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u142	We should also stress that today’s protest action is a warning. If our demands are not heard and satisfied, the sector will be determined to resist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u143	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Dear vice-speaker! The People's Front faction calls on our coalition colleagues to approve the draft State Budget and the draft changes to tax legislation proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. Let us note that the destructive initiatives and calls of individual actors to disrupt the process of adopting the budget and amending tax legislation for the next year are irresponsible and are pursuing anti-government goals. We have to reject politics and populism. The time of hard work and responsible decisions came to the benefit of Ukraine. The tax reform budget needs to move from the airfields to the talk show, where there is often pure populism, to professional discussion in Parliament's walls. So the People's Front faction will support the project proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, and we welcome the government's initiative to create a working group within which coalition representatives and all other factions working in Parliament can discuss changes to current tax legislation in order to make it acceptable for all projects that will provide for changes to tax legislation and which will be based on the budget for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u145	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, George Andriy Valeriyovich. Ostrich, please. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! There is an absurd theater in Parliament. We are asked to vote in favour of a set of figures that are not supported by calculations. You and I all know that this "king is naked." The budget revenue is ephemeral, it only exists in the mind of the Ministry of Finance, and the budget spending is 100-150 billion high. I'll give you a very clear example, that's a profit tax. The 15th year plan was 41 billion, it was actually 36-37 billion, about that. What are we offered in the government budget for the 16th year? Plan 50 billion 140,000. How will this figure be compiled? She's completely unreliable. Who's gonna pay for it? A village that goes from a fixed agricultural tax to a general tax? The village will suffer damage. Moreover, if now a fixed agricultural tax is collected into the budget, this is going to be six-and-a-half billion, this figure is going to be lost because if the village goes into a general income tax regime, it's going to have a loss, these payments will not be in the budget, and they won't be in the budget. Maybe then this income tax, this 50 billion we're going to collect at the expense of the simplifieds? Given that if we were to actually transfer them to the general tax system, what would they do just in the shade? No, if we kill the simplified, these people will turn into a shadow and 3 and a half billion from the only tax that is now in the same budget, and the state will not see them either. What we offered. A shift to taxation of distributed income, which is a development mechanism, which is a mechanism for launching transport pricing, closing all existing schemes, withdrawing money both through offshore and non-resident royalty, and through non-profit institutions. Minfin didn't accept that idea. We ask why he didn't accept it because he can't count the coming. But, dear friends, you can't spare room for someone who can count, not draw 50 billion income taxes, and then exorcise that income tax. It's, you know, not a lot of mind. Therefore, the Tax Code leaves all the mechanisms of pressure on business, all the tax controls, all the mechanisms of hand-wringing. What do we see from the tax police? How much longer can this subject be discussed? A common name, more than that, is given additional duties of customs and customs duties, which are completely nullified by Ukrainian customs duties. Dear colleagues, why I'm in black today. Because today is the day of the tax reform funeral. The day of funerals, the expectations of the Ukrainian business did not change and the day of the funerals of the Ukrainian citizens' trust in the government. Therefore, this document does not need to be returned to the government. First, in Parliament, we have a tax base, and only then do we have a new government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u147	The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyrna! Mrs. Alexander! From "The Fatherland" is Kugel Alexander. Turn on the microphone. Or to the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u148	During the mourning ceremony. I want to remind the government that the very well-known politicians, Margaret Thatcher, always said, "No government funds, there are taxpayers' costs." And so the most important document that can give any government a basis for managing the country is a deal between business, power, and they're taking part in a union and a consumer. Unfortunately, at the end of the Tax Code, you wrote that this law requires regulatory analysis, but you don't even know what it is. The regulatory effect is that when you count, tell me, please tell me that about 400,000 entrepreneurs will close up and come to the labor market, did you figure out how much this is going to cost you? And you figured they'd have nothing to pay for, and where are you going to take the money for that? Because you're counting imaginary figures because you're all only living on dividends that you've paid only 5 percent of before, and you've been asked a very good question about this question of "Freedom." The second question. Please tell me, who's pulling the country out of a dirty, corrupt country, starting with small businesses and agrarians? In all countries it starts with oligarchs, and you haven't taken any steps in this Tax Code to get money out of the shadows. And you remember Nazbank's head when we were with the President, she said she checked and 90 percent of the firms that work in Ukraine, it's not a small business, she has counterparties in offshore companies. You didn't do anything about it. It's about small business. I can tell you that this is a political responsibility. Why Political? Because all dictators are very afraid of small and medium-sized business, because small and medium-sized business is the basis of democracy, because small and medium-sized business did both the first and the second Maidan. And you have to understand today, you're up in the oil, you're up in the oil, because they're going to protect themselves and their mother, your business that feeds them today. I'm done. I won't speak for the agrarians, I fully support my colleagues. For rent. Let's not wash, let's roll. The law didn't pass in the hall, the law of the Fatherland passed on the rent, and you put your editorial in the Tax Code again. This is disorderly and disrespectful to Parliament. And the worst. The devil is hiding in small things. God, you don't understand, Mrs. Natala, not the tax question, you know, our taxes are small. Yeah, they all would have moved on to the general tax system. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u149	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u150	Tax administration issues, and that's what the president and you're talking about, because you're stealing from the administration, because tax stealing from the administration, the customs office is stealing from the administration. And that's why this Tax Code can't be accepted and this is a business report, unfortunately, about the death of this Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u151	From "The Will of the People" is Hirschfeld Anatoly, please, and then there will be a performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u152	Regrettably, distinguished colleagues do not fully comply with the title in its title. It does not create competitive conditions for our business, nor does it stimulate the economy. Unfortunately, over the past two years, we have lost the largest amount of GDP in Ukraine's history, which is over $80 billion. First of all, what macroeconomic indicators over the next 3-5 years should tax reforms in Ukraine lead to? Today, we have about $1,000 per capita GDP. This is a line of risk that cannot be passed on because it leads to the collapse of an economic country. The main challenge is today in the field of economics. Today we have a salary they can't live for. We need to bring it to the parameters where a person can be calculated on the tariffs that are there. And most of all, jobs. Nowhere in the government document is there any indication of how many jobs in the real economy will be created in the coming years. That is what economic growth is all about. We're only talking about two percent. Two per cent is 20 years to the level of 2013. I don't think anyone in the country likes it today. We lost between three and four million jobs with you because the decline of 80 billion GDP is equivalent to that of job losses. By what provisions of this tax code will we restore industrial jobs with you. Now, with regard to certain aspects of the Act. Yes, agrarian taxation really needs to be changed. But to shift towards the shift of benefits in order to finally develop integrated agricultural production in Ukraine, and to create jobs in the agricultural sector not only in agriculture but also in livestock production. Unfortunately, we are completely destroying all the positive trends that have arisen in livestock and in the processing of agriculture. In this form, the agricultural sector will never pull out the economy. Today, imports in the agricultural sector account for about 70 per cent. We need to deepen the processing process and the Tax Code should first of all be aimed at enabling agrarians to develop animal husbandry and to develop processing. The main thing is that we're selling raw materials today, we're selling agricultural products today, IT, it's another myth. And we're buying 20-30-pound processing products instead of channelling these resources inside our economy and creating a product with high value added that will bring jobs down -- that's the meaning of tax reform that needs to be done today in the country. We need to win the battle for investment and create the best productive conditions there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u153	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u154	so that investments could come here, and we could create new workers, thereby ensuring the recovery growth that we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u155	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u156	The State. I propose to set up a working group of factions, to discuss how the main areas of reform should be in Ukraine on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u157	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 15 minutes from the members of the Supreme Council for the speech, please. We're starting a committee meeting right now, or it's going on, and I think we're going to add up. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! No economic reform is worth the paper it's written on if there's no point of growth. Show us in this reform that the government is proposing, the point of growth. Zero! Friends, in front of the world's civilisational processes, we'll be in the cove tomorrow. Of course, one of the points of growth has already been said here, and the open letter reads tens of thousands of agrarians that are now gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council. My colleagues' speeches show that we're "beating at a point," sorry about the tautology. The point of growth is our country's agri-industrial complex. One digit, I'm not going to say that it's food security, millions of people busy, that it's already over a quarter of GDP and so on and so forth. One digit: the state's execution, sorry for the harsh word, the pure heathen, 17 billion dollars a year. Show me a branch that gives you how much "clean"? Metallurgy has also produced many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, Agriculture and the agro-industry complex today holds gold reserves, today holds a balance of payments and holds a bracelet. And in this law, which is being proposed, this point of growth, without being born so much, is being destroyed. Dear friends, what are we doing? When Ukraine joined the World Trade Organization, we protected a very small indicator, a small state support for the red basket, which was $1.7 billion, that's a penny. That's seven times less than the weakest, economically speaking, countries in the European Union, 1.7 billion is direct support. Please let's look at the budget, 1.7 billion is 40 billion dollars, today we're offering 300 million dollars. Excuse me, cover the table for those under the Supreme Council and cry. This is support for the sector that we should have as a locomotive, to lead in the future. Guys, we can't support this bill anymore, at least because the point of growth that we have to rely on in the future, and I fully agree with the previous statement, that we really need to support not only the production of agricultural raw materials now, but also to support the production of finished products with great added value. We'll have even more coming into the budget, and in the gold currency, our reserves and the stability of our bracelets, wages and employment. Of course, these issues need to be reflected in the work or the working group will be, or we will be working in the hall today, but such a bill that destroys one of the points of growth, we will not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u159	Please, National Deputy Marchenko, non-fractional. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Alexander Marchenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of the Bila Church. Today we are considering and we are discussing two important issues: the Budget Code for 2016 and the Tax Code. Questions that raise future developments, but these are two important issues that are being addressed without a report. Without a report on the budget programme that was set up in 2015 and without a report on the implementation of the 2015 tax novels. Dear government officials! You've been approached for a year by all the national MPs, in order to respond to requests and actions for budgeting, and in the formation of tax, so-called, reforms, however, you have to be done for Ukrainians, ordinary Ukrainians. What did we get today? You didn't answer and you don't have the money, you didn't answer why big inflation processes? You have not answered or are not going to answer these questions in the new Tax Code. You're going to destroy Ukraine's future: its education, its medicine, and, in general, your main argument at work, the formation of both the tax budget, is that you're one of the main arguments for your cooperation with the IMF. Today, I want to tell you, Ukraine has such historical and socio-economic data, or its status, that we don't have a starting end of work. And I am addressing you, Mrs. Natalia Ivanovna, do not destroy education, do not destroy medicine, and do not destroy the decentralization of power. Because it's not going to give you anything to argue with the local budgets. Today, as the main source of revenue for local budgets, you define a sub-priced group of goods -- that's the city head, the head of the united community has to sell a pack of cigarettes, a bottle of vodka, a canister of tanneries in order to have a garden, a school, a vocational technical school, a college and a university -- it's wrong. You've been approached and I turn to you, the success of fiscal reform, the success of tax reform, the success of education depends on when.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u161	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u162	And the state budget, or the tax payer's budget, will be solid. And please pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u163	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u164	And look at the bill that the MPs prepared, Bill 3357, and then it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Taras Kutowa, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, it is clear that the document we are considering today requires much work. But in the context of the agrarians, he wanted to say the following today. The country takes third place in the export of grains, first in the oil. And, in principle, maybe that's the basis for the conversation when they say let's take substantial resources into agrarians today because they're still at the top of the line. But just recently, we were given a document -- the report of the Court of Auditors, which clearly records the decline in the agri-industrial complex at 5.3 percent over this reporting period. And it's quite obvious that this fall will continue unless additional mechanisms are created to support and create those development points. I'd like to divide it into two places: the growth points that today are mostly created by large companies that make both large investments and the growth points directly in the countryside, when a small one-person does not have the ability to develop. In view of this cancellation of a single agricultural tax, and in fact, the reduction of the ceiling to two million, I think, in fact, its abolition is totally unacceptable. Along with what we're talking about today's development in general, we should also talk about the development of rural areas. Those who usually go out and who are mostly afraid of cancelling this single tax are also concerned about the actual existence of their small business in the country today. So I would very much ask you to separate two areas for analysis. The first is the existence of large companies that can generate growth, have access to cheap financing; and the development of small farm enterprises in the village, which are actually part of the community and support all the life processes that exist there. In this regard, I stress once again that the abolition of a single agricultural tax is totally unacceptable. And we're looking at a threshold of 2 million for one enterprise completely unacceptable. If you even follow your logic, this threshold should be at least tens of times larger to allow all those entrepreneurs working on this system to keep working, and at all times remove the tension from this issue. It's not that big a deal. In addition, I will repeat what has been said today. Those 6 and a half billion dollars, which are paid by the sole tax collectors of agriculture, are guaranteed. If this is cancelled, there is absolutely no guarantee that these 6 and a half billion dollars will appear in the new budget. So I'd like you to pay attention to that. And I think the agrarians will be grateful for the weighty, constructive position. And this is very important for all of us today to understand: the agricultural bloc is one of the most important blocks in this reform. Let's take a look at him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u167	Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, look at this poster. That's the main thing today. Today, Ukraine needs a budget to save the economy, the modernization budget, the development budget. Instead, what did we receive from the government? Another budget for trapping, eating, and living in debt. A meager salary and pension, a meager investment component, huge debt payments. This is a short-term accounting approach, not a strategic approach. This is the raw future of Ukraine -- what you're offering us today. As a result, the plan to increase the economy by 2 percent a year next year is given as a victory, while in the last two years we have lost almost 20 percent. The economy needs immediate resuscitation, and the government treats it with painkillers from the International Monetary Fund. The losses of large and medium-sized enterprises, which are at the heart of the economy, over a year ago, 850 billion dollars. This year it's been 400 billion dollars. And the government takes priority: speeding up company registration, privatization, even eliminating workbooks. You tell me. Who are concerned about these questions today? Ask the people under the Supreme Council if they are concerned today. No, it's not. They say: "Mrs. Jaresco, if that's all you can offer us today, these improvements, and you're telling us what's going to be better, don't touch us. This will be a better improvement that you can give us." Today, the government is hostage making the country hostage to foreign creditors, and making citizens hostage to the state, who are forced to live on subsidies that they cannot pay off without them, buy drugs, and live in general. The Radical Party faction has a qualitatively different view of economic policy. The key priorities are to convert budgets, the tax system into a country's development tool, including a real rise in social standards, minimum wage and pensions as a factor in increasing purchasing power, as it represents 70 percent of Ukrainian GDP; The introduction of temporary employment programmes primarily for ATO participants and for unemployed, who are now nearly two million in Ukraine; This is a real reduction in tax pressure, as provided by Parliamentary Bill 3357, not the fairies you are proposing; It's overcoming customs smuggling, there's tens of billions of dollars. You don't have to ask small businesses to do that, you don't have to cancel the special VAT regime for agriculture, and you don't have to cancel the simplified taxation system. Take the money on customs, get over smuggling there, and on account of that, we have to increase the cost of developing a budget, which this year has been reduced even in a bracelet. That's when Ukraine will be an economic Europe, and that's what we stand for, and we invite everyone, regardless of factional ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u169	Please, Natalia Royal, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, you know, I've listened carefully to all the speeches and I'm just curious. Is that who's in this room for this Tax Code and for this budget? One hand is the bravest man. Two people along with the Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues, what are we wasting our time for? That no one but a national MP supports this Tax Code and does not support this budget, because we are all well aware of what we need today. First of all, we need to maintain existing jobs, support small and medium-sized businesses, ensure timely wage payments and attract investment. What does the Government propose today? Offers to destroy small and medium-sized businesses, proposes to destroy agrarian businesses and to drive the economy into the shadows. But this clearly does not match the goals and goals that we have set with you. What should we do? Today we need to give the best conditions for the world, we need to say that, yes, there are problems in Ukraine, but we are adequate, we want to attract investors today, and therefore we are ready to give you the best opportunities for both the external and the domestic investors today. What do we really suggest? We tell them, people, we have a country in which there is little today that 70 per cent of the economy in the shadows, so we want to destroy the Pension Fund completely with our innovative proposals. We want to stop paying pensions to retirees today, we want to keep a totally inadequate pension tax and we want to collect it from our pensioners for the second year in a row, instead of decentralization, we want to take the last money from local budgets, we want to increase the retirement age for teachers and doctors today. Well, tell me, at least in one country of the world, someone will name our country, which is considering such initiatives in our Ukrainian Parliament. I'm sure it's not. And I wanted to ask only one question to the Minister of Finance, which country, as the name of the country, the budget initiatives and the tax reform that we are considering today? Because I am absolutely sure that these are not initiatives for Ukraine. Therefore, of course, the Opposition Unit will never support the budget in such a form, will never support such an initiative under the Tax Code, and we find it extremely immoral and unacceptable to raise the issue of the legalization of the gambling business. Let's go work, not waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-17-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The time for the speech is over. In this regard, let's do it in a minute. Time's up. It's over. Colleagues. Dear colleagues! We've had two discussions with you on two government documents, a draft budget that was introduced by the government and a draft legislation, such as the Tax Code. But from the very beginning, you and I have determined that we will work together with the government to make this budget really fit the interests of the country and the real state of affairs, and to stimulate economic development. In doing so, we stressed that we must preserve the positive experience of decentralization, and that is the responsibility, the direct responsibility of all. To that end, as we have determined before, we are doing the following: we are setting up a working group to include representatives of factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's desirable that this be one or two professional people who can work very substantively. Next. The Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister himself, as well as the Tax Committee and the Budget Committee. In this regard, I would like to send my representatives at 4:30 today, for the first such meeting and regulation of the work of this group, because we have in such extremely strict conditions, and I emphasize that we have received only 11 numbers, to work out all the necessary decisions, including what the Ukrainian national deputies discussed and spoke today. So, dear colleagues, I ask everyone to be responsible, I call on everyone. I think it's very important not to look for the extreme, but now to look for what needs to be done to stabilize the situation. And I call on everyone to make a responsible compromise, responsible, neither populist nor political, but responsible for the country. And this responsible compromise, I'm sure, can be found in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament to make the right decisions. Given the fact that we still have committee meetings today, and we will move the discussion course further to the field of groups and committees of the Ukrainian Parliament, I declare the meeting closed at the turn of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all for your work, dear colleagues.
