ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall to begin our work. Today is a very difficult and responsible day. It is important that we start our work without delay. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work and ask the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take your seats. We're starting our work. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues! Please, please, let's register. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Hall. [[10:07:36]] 319 deputies registered in the hall. I hereby announce the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Plenary, the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council. Before we begin our work, dear colleagues, I would like to say hello on your behalf and personally welcome to the birthday of Hennady Grigorovovich, the Kryosh of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Let's say hello, fellows of honor. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! We've got a lot of stress today. There are many different draft laws that we need to adopt that are important enough. Including the reform of the law enforcement system. These include economic government laws that are important for cooperation with international financial organizations. So we can start our work, your esteemed colleagues, from the first question of the agenda. This is a government draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws Governing Relationships in Acquisition of Permitted Documents. Please, Your Honor, 2887. Report to the Ministry of Education. There is a suggestion to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[10:09:17]] For-126 Fellows, please focus once again on the first issue of the agenda – the government draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, which regulate relations relating to obtaining documents of a permissive nature. It stands first in the first reading of the agenda, please take a look. Please, colleagues, there is an offer to consider it first under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Vote please, colleagues. 2887. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Educational law. [[10:10:07]] For-142 Colleagues, please concentrate, please. Colleagues, please concentrate. 2887, consideration of the simplified procedure. Educational law. Please, colleagues, support the 2887 review of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please vote in favour of the shorter procedure. [[10:11:06]] For-152. Thank you, colleagues. Please report to the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u3	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council! The noble national deputies of Ukraine! The bill is designed to reduce the procedures of permissiveness and to move from permissive to reporting on two issues: experiments with animals and imports of genetically modified organisms solely for scientific research purposes. To this end, two laws of Ukraine have been amended, the first of which is to protect animals from cruel behaviour, to abolish experimental research from animals, and, at the same time, to substantially strengthen the responsibility of scientific institutions and higher educational institutions for carrying out such research, and to impose exhaustive conditions under which such research is possible, it is the existence of a vortex, a volley, an appropriate scientific theme approved by the scientific board of the relevant scientific unit. As far as the second law is concerned. The permission to import genetically modified organisms is revoked for purely scientific purposes. At the same time, a report on the import of such organisms is being made, with a report from the central executive body that carries out, ensuring the implementation of policies in the field of education and science by concluding the Commission on Biological and Genetic Safety, as provided for in article 12 of the Act on Biosafety. Please support this law in the first reading so that, when preparing it for second reading, proposals can be made that were made during the discussion of laws on committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u4	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please. And, dear fellows, more quiet in the hall, very noisy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear Mr. Golovo, the Committee on Science and Education, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, which regulate relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature. The explanatory note states that the purpose of the adoption of the law is to deregulation of agricultural activities in Ukraine by cancelling work permits for experimental animals and allowing imports of products obtained using genetically modified organisms for scientific research purposes, as well as to clarify the powers of individual central executive authorities in the field of the treatment of experimental animals and GMOs. These questions are very mixed, both in the professional community and in the society at large. For example, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, is proposing to send a draft for work. But the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, suggests that, as a result of the first reading, we should adopt the bill as a basis. The committee had a very clear and meaningful discussion on this subject. And we think it's logical and appropriate to take the project as a basis, but we notice. First. The lifting of the permit to carry out animal experiments obliges the executive authorities to ensure the formation of state policy in order not to allow the animal to be subjected to severe animal treatment to urgently develop mechanisms for monitoring scientific and research work carried out by institutions and higher educational institutions with experimental animals. Similarly, we need to take into account the position of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety in the Convention on Biological Diversity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u6	How much? How much, Mrs. Lila? Please, 30 seconds, finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u7	The Convention on Biological Diversity dates back to January 29, 2000. All these questions after our detailed analysis, we think we can take into account when preparing the bill for second reading. So I ask all the MPs to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u8	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: 2 is for, 2 is against. Please: 2 for, 2 for against. Heads of coalition factions, please, at the meeting, in the office to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. FROLOW MIKOLLA ALEXANDROVICH, THE BLOCK OF PETRA PROCHENKA.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this bill, which must be supported, because the state of science today in Ukraine can be characterized by one word: "terrible." So we need to support all the initiatives, all the bills are designed to support our science, its further development, so I urge all of you to withdraw the waters of your affairs and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u10	Thank you. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich, "The Self-Help Union".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u11	Kishkaru, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u12	Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u13	The Self-Help Group insists on the adoption of the bill as a whole, I ask my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u14	Shipko Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u15	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished samplers! Hiccup Andrei, Rebirth Party. I would be very careful to deal with this bill, of course, by introducing a system of deregulation that simplifies and reduces the number of entry permits, into our market for scientific purposes, the gene of modified organisms and substances. This could lead to them entering our market, and we will eventually, through scientific research, open our market, and eventually, our people will suffer. And as a doctor, I want to say that the results of the use of modified organisms have not yet been studied before the end, and that what could affect the health of the entire population of our country, I strongly oppose. And I was warned, first of all, by the reaction of the scientific community, and we heard, Lilia Greenevich said that our scientists are our husbands, and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences is in favour of sending this bill for further elaboration. That's why I would be very careful about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u16	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk and then from Mrs. Lila.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u17	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we need to support all the laws that are designed to create opportunities for the development of applied science in Ukraine, so that Ukrainian scientists do not go abroad to do research elsewhere, and so that they can do research here. We need to take down unnecessary regulatory barriers, and we need to invest in our home country. Moreover, to provide tax incentives for foreign investors here in Ukraine to set up research centres. Therefore, it is imperative to support national science, to remove regulatory barriers as much as possible, but at the same time to introduce a clear and rigid monitoring regime, and to ensure that the public is aware of the results of this area. So I think that this law can be adopted and redrafted for the second reading. We need to support the country's science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, one minute, Lilia Greenevich, and we will proceed to the vote, Your Honor, and please come into the hall. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, what did the Academy say? They were that we needed to complete legislation as a whole on the issues of improving legislation in order to preserve biological, environmental security. So this law has to go, and it's also followed by a whole package of such legislation, and that was the point. But we won't be able to explore GMOs if we don't open them up for use by scientists. So once again, I ask you to support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a discussion. Now we're going to vote and I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall, take their seats, prepare for the vote. So I put to the vote a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine that regulate relations related to obtaining documents of a permissive nature, No. 2887, on the basis of a committee proposal. Dear colleagues, please support this bill as a basis. And please vote. [[10:22:15]] For 241 Decisions taken, Your Honor. According to the Rules, the following questions are personnel, but the Presidency has received a request from two factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction, requiring a 30-minute recess. And according to the Rules, I have to do this. And that's why it's called a break of up to 10 hours for 55 minutes. At 10.55, I ask everyone to come to the hall, important voting staff. And I'm asking all the deputies at 10.55 to come into the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, the board of directors of the coalition factions has ended. Please inform Julia Timoshenko and Oleg Berezuk for three minutes. Please. And we continue our work, our consideration of daytime issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I would like to inform you that this morning, at 8 a.m., a parliamentary prayer breakfast was held, where all the representatives of all the factions were present, where high international guests were present. We now have congressmen, senators, representatives of many European countries, Doug Burley, who is the organizer of prayer breakfasts in the United States, please welcome, thank them for visiting Ukraine at such a difficult time. [[Applause]] This morning, our friends and I prayed for Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine, for peace in our country. We have talked today about the fact that every step we take must be with faith in God, with faith and love for people, and so I would like to follow God’s commandments every day, follow Jesus Christ, and do the things that we, like believing people, are obliged to do on this earth. But at the same time we have no right not to see people living with you today. Today, in the square before Parliament, we are gathered.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u23	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u24	Thousands gathered today representing all 45 million Ukrainians who want justice from the parliament today. And so I ask you to put aside today all of the issues that are essentially political and to consider today the five bills that can produce results for people, that is to make sure that they have the right wages and pensions to index, to withdraw pensions, it's already embarrassing, to take away everything that relates to corruption on tariffs and to lower tariffs. Today, a coalition council met, and we supported such a course. And I believe that Parliament has come to make every Ukrainian's life better and to bring peace back to the state. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Olega Romanovich, please. And let's finish, let's stop working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u26	The life of public men is defined to have meaning and meaning. The point of our activity should be that those who have chosen us should have rules and circumstances in which they should be successful. Sadly, it is difficult for us to create those circumstances, and we must recognize our inability to be stronger. We have to overcome our fear and admit that we made a few mistakes and we have to cancel them, 15 percent of the pension is nonsense. And that's just to do it, it doesn't ruin the budget, and more than that, we have to fight our fears and adopt the Elections Act, which will allow people to be chosen, not chosen by parties and abused by the state. One more thing. No one knows what the Constitution will be, but it must be the Constitution of free and free people. This land.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u27	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u28	This land has been intolerant of usurperism and usurpation for 24 years. I'm all about the meaning and purpose of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u29	I think it's going to be the free constitution of the free people for the loyal territorial communities. Dear colleagues, we have a few questions about the personnel. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, dear colleagues. For your consideration, I am introducing a draft Decision. Attention! Take your seats, dear fellows. Draft Decision on the release of Shevchenk I.A. from the post of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, registration number (2172a). Please vote for your release. Vote, please, colleagues. That decision was a liberation coalition. [[11:13:32]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. One minute from the factions, please, one minute from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u30	Dear fellow MPs! We are a civilized Parliament of a civilized nation. I, when we met at the faction, promised the minister that we would require Parliament to give him three minutes to express its position. It is a civilized approach, whether we love it or not! Learn to Be Courageous and Willful!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u31	Please, Oleg Lazko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. As soon as Parliament had made a historic decision to release an active member of the government, the minister of ecology for corruption. But why is the question not discussed in the hall? Why was it not determined how the corrupter got into that position?Oh, my God! Why was it not determined by the political power responsible for corruption?Oh, my God! Why are you dragging ministers, assigning cats in a bag and releasing them like cats in a bag?Oh, my God! It's embarrassing! Shame on the minister! Shame for such subversive dirty politics! When appointed officials, they are praised! And then the political power that's putting it up is hiding from it like hell! In Parliament instead of deciding, and never again corrupting, you silence them! That's not fair! And here they mentioned the commandments of God. So one of them is, "Don't lie."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u33	Please, People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u34	Dear friends, sometimes, so that family relationships are not glued together, and there are big family disputes. But when guests come, this family, at least in front of the guests, tries to make it seem normal for them. We have very tall guests today. Please be shocked, at least in front of the world today, to stop playing these circuses here. Take your seats and work as a civilized country for at least one day before the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Is there a need for factions? Please, National Deputy Shipko, Rebirth Party. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! "The Rebirth Party." I think we've done a good job together now, and we've shown that if you're not working for the State, if you're not working for the people of Ukraine, if you're not a patriot, you shouldn't be working for the government. So let's get on with our good work. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we have been in possession of a decree on the release of the Minister of Health of Kvetashvili since 15 May. Let's put it together now and vote. The way we supported you under the Minister of Environment. And let's also give a breath to our Ukrainian people. Because our rebirth group, the Rebirth Party for real recovery. Please also make this decree and support the release of Minister Kvetashvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u37	Thank you. Andrew Derkach, one minute, "The will of the people." And we're working on it, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of all present, from the “will of the people” faction, and to support the previous speaker. You don't have to show double standards. There was a decision to withdraw Shevchenko today, and we supported her. You say you have to look something in front of our foreign colleagues. In this way, it must be said that instead of holding a half-day faction board, the Coalition Council is in session, there is not enough time, and the parliament is in the middle of the day. This is a violation of the Rules. And today there are orders of 15 and Quintashvili, and everyone knows that this is a violation of the law, and that so far Ukrainian citizens are suffering without medication. And by the second character, Comrade Pavelenko is the Minister of Agriculture. Let's put it to a vote. What is it? Who are you protecting? 20 days from now, 30 days from now, when a serious economic and crisis arises, it will be a shame to look into and ask questions about agriculture. And question 0901. Vladimir Borisovic, we've been putting on the agenda for 4 weeks the Milk Act on milk prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. Yuri Lucenko, please, a minute, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, in the Paris magazine "Crytica", on which pages were debated among themselves by the Soviet authorities of Ukraine and the Poles, the great Pole Jerzy Gedroitsz, a great friend of Ukraine wrote that the disciplined Colonel Volodyevsky had built a European Poland, and the Trans-Provian Steppes were still chasing the horses of the Ottoman and the rubies both to the right and to the left. Fellows, let's learn how to cut our own, let's learn without emotion to work. I urge everyone to start working on the agenda that today can give society the very necessary laws, the systemic reforms that we have been going to for so many years. Put your emotions in your fist and start working for Ukraine, which is one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Vadim Rabinovich, then Oleg Berezuk. Yegor Sobolev later. And here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u42	Dear Presidents, colleagues, I am very glad that one minister has been released today. And we didn't even vote because we didn't appoint him, but we're happy about that. But I want to tell you why you're closing your eyes that the same minister has been talking about the egregious facts of government theft, the same minister has been talking about the egregious facts that, today, instead of picking up the last, it is better for the thieves from the Government to figure out here, to bring back everything that was stolen. We have no right to just fire them. Deal with all corruption issues. Find out what Pashinsky said, what Chevchenko said, what everyone said! Why are we silent? You're stealing now! Please, let's set up a commission to investigate the facts of corruption and destroy all the corrupts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u44	Colleagues, a great request from the Self-Help faction, let's learn how to work as a parliament! We appointed a minister when most factions failed to even see them, not what to talk about. We can't fire them the same way. When each member of the government is appointed and released, a real discussion is needed about why we have made a mistake and how to avoid repeating these mistakes. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Ecology has not defeated corruption, we need a new minister of ecology, but let's talk this out in the open. One more. If there's a desire to free ministers, there's a man we should all start with. There is no faction that is satisfied with the work of the minister of the interior. Each one of you comes up to me and says it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Chebotar is in place, Pascal is in place, everyone else is in place. Let's have the candor and the courage to admit our mistakes and correct them, then we'll be Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's stop this conversation. Draft Decision on an appointment (a very important assignment), the appointment of Gretzak as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of Ukraine was introduced on 1 July 2015 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyyovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to invite you to the floor of the President's Representative for Advocacy, Stepan Ivanovich Kubeva. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! You know that the submission of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine to Vasil Sergiyovich Gretzak was not sudden. Four days before late last night, yesterday and this morning, just before 8:00, we met with the entire Chamber of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only public square to clarify the uneasy answers and questions. I would like to thank every member of the Supreme Council for the openness and for the principles of the discussions that we had with Vasil Sergiyovich Gritsak during the effective meetings. And I also want to say that it is a pleasure that every MP, every political power, and faction were responsible, above all, for our country of Ukraine. And when you take three of those that I would like to say today, which were expressed by wishes, they refer to such order that the security of the state and the peace of the country are very important, and priority for everyone, and generally for democracy and the world, and Europe. The second is that the coalition and wisdom of unity, in spite of all the discussions, is a completely effective platform for exchange of thoughts, and different thoughts. The unity and responsibility of each MP is what we came with you to Parliament. And the main thing, and the main thing is the value that was expressed during the meetings, is based on very simple words that the values of every human being and eternity, the identity of the Ukrainian people, are God and Ukraine. I would like to refer to the fact that, according to the commission of President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine and in accordance with paragraph 14, part one, article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I apply for the appointment of Vasil Sergiyovitch Gretzak as head of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u47	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, from the Committee of Sergey Pashinsky, the Committee of Profiles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u48	At its meeting yesterday, the National Defence and Security Committee reviewed the submission of the President, and all members of the Committee spoke. What would you like to say? That Vasil Sergiyovich Gritzak is a man who has real combat experience, a man who fights for our country, not in Facebook, and by holding empty press conferences, demagogies and populism. And through the real work of protecting our nation. And I would like to say that only people who can present real achievements can claim government advice. The committee unanimously supported Gritsak Vasil Sergiyovich’s candidacy as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We suggest a room to support this candidature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. Many Vasil Sergiyovich met with factions and discussions. I suggest that, colleagues, if necessary, we set aside five minutes for a question or discussion. All right, let's do this. Colleagues, give me a minute from the factions, two minutes. Three minutes? Okay, three minutes from factions and groups. Please sign in. And we'll vote. From factions and groups for three minutes, please. We've moved on to the discussion, colleagues, please. Please, Self-Help, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u50	Colleagues, last night the Self-Help faction had a meeting with a candidate for the head of the BSS. Then I had a big discussion on this subject. We decided that we could not support this appointment as Head of the Service. Reason three. First. We believe that during the leadership of the Anti-Terrorism Center of the Security Service, its leadership has made many mistakes in this difficult year of military defeat. One of these errors is directly linked to corruption. Everyone knows that the U.S.B., along with other law enforcement agencies, shares responsibility for the growth of smuggling and the sale of permits that have become a new type of corruption caused by this war. Another reason. We do not understand how the declaration of a person who has spent his entire life in the ministry can produce such a number of luxury machines. We believe that the new Head of the Service, as well as the leaders of all other law enforcement agencies, should look for people with a crystal reputation who not only have powers that not only have the support of the President, which are absolutely necessary, but also have principles that will never allow us to use the Service in either corruption or political games that will allow us to build a real Ukrainian Security Service free of Moscow influence. That is why we express our gratitude and respect for Mr. Vasil's contribution to this anti-terrorist operation. We know that, according to many military responses, he has proved himself to be a true officer, in which we believe that the President is afraid to find a stronger candidate for the leadership of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u51	Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The People's Front faction will unanimously support Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich's candidacy for office, and we'll expect that at this difficult time, finally, from politics and the Balkans, we'll move on to professional attitudes and the formation of our security service, it's extremely important. Since listening to the telephones of the national MPs, the organization of business pressure is not the primary function of the Ukrainian Security Service. The main function is to fight an external and internal enemy who is trying to destroy our nation. So I'm going to personally vote, the People's Front will vote. I invite all the people's deputies to vote in favour of Vasil Sergiyovich's candidacy. And I want to wish him health, strength, and good results of our Ukrainian Security Service so that our country feels protected, including the Ukrainian Security Service. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u53	Please, Anton Kisse, team of the Rebirth Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Yesterday, at a meeting of the Rebirth Group, we had the opportunity to meet with a distinguished candidate for the post of head of the Ukrainian BSS, Mr. Gritsak. I would like to emphasize that all the questions that my colleagues have raised in our group have been answered in a comprehensive and concrete manner. I, as Ukraine's national deputy, representing the southern Odessa region, Bessarabia and we are members of our group, the three who represent this region, are very important to us today to have a professional who knows the specifics of working in a service that can not only by sending questions but by concrete actions, strengthen the human resources in our region in order to truly have peace and peace. I would like to emphasize that we have had the opportunity to meet with officers, officers who are no longer in your service, and I can tell you that Vasily Sergeyevich, one hundred percent of those who know you who have met or have simply been able to work in the respective units, fully support you. We, the Rebirth Group, support the appointment of the head of the Grissack HQ. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u55	Please, Andrew Leonidovich Derkac, People's Will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the “Will of the People” Group, first of all, to thank Valentina Látvajchenko for his work as Chairman of the Security Service and to say that we will support Vasili Gritzak as Chairman of the Security Service, because during the difficult period of fighting in eastern Ukraine there must be an understanding of continuity. And Vasily Sergeyevich in his activities.Here we met yesterday, he has a very clear possession of the material, he knows the operational situation, and he doesn't need to jump into office. But I would like to draw attention, Vasily Sergeyevich, to the need to investigate the work of the “K” units, the time of the last year when cooperatives were built when businesses began to withdraw, and for this we are prepared to provide people with work for the commission of inquiry, as Mr. Sobolev has said. We are ready to participate in this work and another moment is to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens. No military action repeals the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, what is happening today in law enforcement agencies is illegal wiretaps, emissions to the Internet of legalization of information obtained by units of the operational and technical services. I am not ready to propose a mechanism today, but I know exactly what we should do in Parliament. And another question is the humanitarian situation in Donbass territory and the possibility of securing the passage of humanitarian goods, which we have drawn your attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Alexy Savechenko, Petra Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u58	Good afternoon, national deputies! Good afternoon, Mr. Head! First of all, if we're talking about Vasil Sergiyovich Gretzak, I would like us all to thank Valentina Navejchenka for the work he did for this very important diplomatic step in office. In the early days of his duties, I think it was very difficult for him. But today, the position of the President in the appointment of Vasil Sergiyovich for this post, the proposed appointment, was such that today the enemy, an international enemy, acts as counter-investigative groups, acts as a terror. And today, the person we're assigning today, I think the support of the hall will be very large, this person is an expert. And a lot of people here in this room, a lot of people in places know this expert very well from a normal, clear, courageous position. Very many of the people who are here now on the front are clearly aware of what is happening today. So we hope that your personal actions, Vasil Sergiyovich, you will do what the potential that is today in the State Security Service is enormous. And please use it to make sure that we are not embarrassed. Thank you very much. And I want to encourage everyone to be united. Peter Dustenk's Party Block will support it. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to thank the Fatherland faction for working in this position. She was tough after Maidan's dignity. It was a man who never hid behind his back, behind his back, who was always with us. She always stood up for her civic stand and fought with us in Maidan. I'd like to announce the decision of the Fatherland faction. At her meeting yesterday, she heard a candidate for the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Vasil Gritzak, making a decision on his support. Why? Well, first of all. What needs to be done, and I hope it ends, is experimenting with positions that have a specific function in the country. One. The other one. Indeed, Vasil Sergiyovich is the person who, from the operative to the colonel, the first deputy of the Ukrainian Security Service, has gone through all the ranks of the officers in the Ukrainian Security Service, and she knows how, where, when to do in the service, and in which language to speak to the operational worker. Third. This person, who I served with for 20 years together, knows what an operational-search thing is, knows what an agency-operational process is. And he's not going to make these processes fail and so that they die, God forbid, or anything happens to people. Because this process is followed by living people, the patriots of Ukraine. I think that the year that Vasil Sergiyovich spent in ATO will really give him the opportunity to evaluate this position differently today. Because he's not a classy general anymore, he's a man who smelled the powder. I wish him success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Please take our seats, national deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last night, Russian media reported that the Russian underground network, which had robbed hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens, had collected billions of rubles from them. I was running this network like I was. And the money collected from the deceived hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens went to finance the Ukrainian army and their fight on Donbas. Some of you are having fun, you know, maybe this fairy-tale news wouldn't even be worth mentioning from this big rostrum if it wasn't for one "but." In this case, 19 Ukrainian citizens were arrested in Russia. And when I put this so-called news on Facebook, a lot of people wrote me, it's bad that it didn't happen. On the contrary, it would have to be admitted that the Russians had indeed been robbed and said it was a good thing. You could admit it for the ratings or for the pyar. But no rating and pyar is worth a man's life. 19 Ukrainian citizens were arrested in Russia on the pretext that they had been accused of gathering billions of rubles to finance the Ukrainian army. Taking this opportunity, I'm going to the future head of the Security Service, and I'm going to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I'm going to the President of Ukraine and the government, and I want you to do whatever it takes to get these people out of jail. They, I don't know what they've been doing there, you can see in the best Berian and Jesuit traditions, but these people have admitted that they've been collecting money and that they've been translating, I'd say, billions of rubles into financing the Ukrainian army. It's the same thing as eating babies in Slovenian, breaking up, it's the same "news" (in coffees) that the Russian media is zinging and broadcasting. These are the challenges we face. The fight for Donbas, the fight for Crimea is not just a military fight, it's an information struggle, it's a struggle for the mind and for the hearts of people. Because when central and Russian channels are completely serious about me collecting billions of dollars for the Ukrainian army in Russia, and they're arresting 19 live, real people, in which families, children and they are now going to be in prison to justify the Russian agitprom is what cynical power is today in Russia. Goebbels is turning into a grave. By the way, today the Russian channels will show that the new Head of the U.S.S.A. has been elected under the supervision of American overseers, because the American senators are sitting in this room right now. The Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u63	The faction votes. I see. Dear fellow members of the national MPs, there is now General Vasil Sergiyovich Gretzak in this bed, who has every chance of becoming the best commander of Ukraine's special service. So I think we're going to support the President's application, and we're going to make it possible to implement all the necessary knowledge that Vasil Sergiyovich has. Dear colleagues, 2204a Draft Decision on the appointment of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyyovich as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, I put the vote to the vote as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. 2204a, please vote, please support. [[11:44:24]] For 340. Congratulations, Vasil Sergiyovich! Vasil Sergiyovich, we wish you success in your hard work! I think the figures of such serious support only give you inspiration. Success and Security to Our State! Good luck! Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. We've got some left. We've got it. We're moving on to the second reading on the agenda. First question. This is 2072, the bill on the House of Accounts. I'd like to have a word with you. I'm reminding you that this is the second reading, which means we're working on a table of amendments without speeches, no comments. Please, 2072, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u64	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs prepared a bill of 2072 on the House of Auditors, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine for second reading. The bill received 424 proposals from national deputies. Most of them are aimed at resolving the issues raised during the first reading of the bill. I would like to emphasize that 312 offers are included. Of these, 76 are in a different edition, 94 are in part. All the proposals were worked out jointly with the initiator of the bill, i.e. the representative of the President of Ukraine, with the President's Office, the House of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance, and civil society. According to the final draft of the bill, it is proposed, first of all, to order the clearance of the Court of Auditors and to reconcile the issue of financial security with budgetary legislation. Establish a new, transparent order for the appointment of heads and other members of the Court of Auditors, including the following: The appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors shall be carried out by the Supreme Council on the basis of an open competition, the Head of the Court of Auditors shall be elected from the composition of its members and shall be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council. To define more specific qualifications for the members of the Court of Auditors, to assume that the Head of the Court of Auditors is the Secretary of the Court of Auditors, who is appointed by the Court of Auditors by the head of the Court of Auditors. Set the submission to the Supreme Council by May 1st of the annual report on the activities of the Court of Auditors and its representation in the Supreme Council, systematize the positions regarding the interaction of the Court of Auditors with the Supreme Council, as well as the legislative alignment of the Court of Auditors’ relations with the law enforcement authorities. Changes are being made to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Code of Admin. Infringement to strengthen the protection of the members of the Court of Auditors in the exercise of their direct powers. And it's also very important that we find that after this law is passed and it becomes effective, within two months, the Supreme Council is obliged to hold a competition and appoint a new composition of the Court of Auditors. I would like to point out that the second reading bill has been worked out by our international partners, in particular the European Commission, the GIS, the United Kingdom Accounting Chamber and has found a satisfactory response where they note that in that way, in that version, which is worked by the Committee, this law can be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading, and in general. At the same time, I would like to point out that both the MP Corps and our international partners were recommended during the time that the law was submitted to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u65	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u66	It was suggested that I make one amendment and I would like it now, under the transcript, read it from the voice, it's about clarifying the number 175 proposal in the comparative table. So for the thighs, I announce this proposal: "Part of the six articles 20 in the final draft of the bill, put it this way: the term of office of the head of the Court of Auditors and his deputy shall be six years, in other words the term of office of the head and deputy, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u67	Please take another 30 seconds and try to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u68	It is proposed that Bill 2072 be adopted in second reading and in general as a bill taking into account the sonic proposal, as well as an editorial proposed by the Committee on Budget Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivan. Dear colleagues, I would like to consult you before I go to the amendment. Today there are a large number of bills in second reading, extremely important, reformative, as is the bill on the House of Accounts, a huge number of amendments. I'd like to ask you in the hall if there's a permit for us to vote in the committee? Could such support be possible? Let me, with your permission, now, pay attention. Now we exchange thoughts, I give the floor to Victor Pinzenik one minute and then to Levechenk one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u70	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, the distinguished national MPs, well, did they come up with a second reading regime in the Rules? In order for each national MP to have the right to maintain his or her position. It's not enough that we have a draft sitting today full of bills that aren't even handed down to the second reading of laws, and the Rules require them to be distributed in 10 days so that MPs can at least get to know each other. Therefore, I insist that the rights of every national MP to discuss their amendment should be discussed, if he insists, if he insists, no, but this right is enshrined in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u71	Please, 30 seconds of Ivan Krulko's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u72	I would like to say, Victor Mikhailovich and all the other colleagues, that this law for the second reading, namely the table, was given out on June 2nd. So it's been a month since this table was given to the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is an amendment, Mr. Yuri, can you stand it? Come to her, you'll stand up for her. If there is a definite objection to the order provided for in the Rules, we will not begin to do so. And you're the only one who can answer questions very quickly and effectively. So I'm starting to recalculate the rejected amendments, and I'm going to read them. If the MP insists, he simply has a very clear and loud announcement to make. Thank you. 4 Amendment, People's MP Melnik. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Five o'clock, Fries. 7th, Fries. 14th, Lensky. 15th, Gerasimov. 17th, Pinzenic. No, it's not. 18th, Agafone. 26th, Pinzenic. 27th, Fries. 31st. 35th, Melnik. 37th, Welcome. 44th, Kugel. 45th, Melnik. 46th, Lensky. 47th, Melnik. 50th, Levenchenko. He insists. Please, one minute, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u74	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to ask our room to listen carefully to the proposed amendments. The point is that I suggest that the National Bank not only monitor the National Bank's revenues and expenses, but also use the National Bank's reserves. I think in these circumstances, especially in the last year, when we saw what the National Bank is doing, or, let's say, what it's not doing, when we saw that corruption that's in the National Bank, when we saw those private interests that are in the National Bank, and in particular, the criminal absolutely monetary policy of the National Bank and the anti-social, I think it's absolutely right to have a certain independent, in particular, parliamentary control through the National Bank's accounting chamber on reserves. So I'm asking the entire session room to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u75	Thank you. 30 seconds, please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u76	I, in principle, agree with my colleague Yuri Lewchenk, but I would like to point out that this requires changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Since the 98th article of the Constitution makes it clear that the Court of Auditors controls the issue of the comings and expenses of the State budget, such a rule may be an exception to constitutional rules, but after appropriate changes have been made to the Constitution. I will vote for this rule to appear in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u77	Thank you. Amendment 50 of the People’s Deputy Levchenko shall be put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please. [[11:54:39]] For-94 The decision is not made. 53, Melnik. 55, Melnik. 56, Melnik. 58, Goncharenko. 62, Kugel. 64, Pinzenic. 65, Matthew. 70, Matthew. 71, Lechenko. 77, Kugel. 85, Pinzenic. 86, Agafone. 87, Matthew. 89, Matthew. 90, Matthew. 94, Kozir. 95, Kugel. 97, Welcome. 105, Kugel. 142, Pinzenic. 146, Welcome. 147, Gerasimov. 148, Pinzenic. 149, walking. 152, Welcome home. 155, Pinzenic. 161, Kugel. 163, Fir's. 167, Kugel. 178, walking. 180, Baloga. 181, Rudik. 182, Geller. 183, Gorbunov. 184, I was walking. 194, I was walking. 196, Leuchenko. He insists. Please, Lechenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u78	Society! The bill does not determine who has the right to determine the inability to exercise the powers of a member of the Court of Auditors as a result of a particular illness, nor is it considered that the performance of the duties of a member of the Court of Auditors can be hindered by not only a certain disease but also by the general unmet state of health of such a person. For the purpose of avoiding abuse in the formation of the Court of Auditors, it is appropriate to clearly establish the requirements and criteria of the candidates. Therefore, I propose an amendment to add the following paragraph to the law, the failure to exercise the powers of head or other member of the Health Accountancy Chamber is determined by the conclusion of a medical commission created by a specially authorized special executive body that implements public health policy. In the case of the selection of candidates for the members of the Court of Auditors. the election of candidates to the members of the Court of Auditors. The Explanatory Note states that the Law on State Service seems to address this issue. Actually, that's not true. Especially. We'll have a new law now. So I'm asking you to write this rule in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u79	Thank you. Ivan Krulko, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u80	The committee, when considering the amendment, did not support it for the reasons that it was indeed settled by legislation on the State service, and more importantly, the legislation on the State service extended to the members of the Court of Auditors, with some exceptions, such as on matters of assignment and payment of work. So I suggest you leave this amendment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u81	Whoever supports the amendment of the 196 People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please include the voting system. Please 196th, Lechchenka. [[11:58:17]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 200, Kugel. 201, Melniczuk. 202, Welcome. 204, Goncharenko. 208, Melnik. 212, Melniczuk. 215, Fries. 220, Fries. 221, Fries. 223, I was walking. 224, Goncharenko. 226, Goncharenko. 228, Matthew. 230, Melnik. 234th, Matthew. 240th, Pinzenic. 241, Fries. 243th, Matthew. 246, Siroid. 247, Pinzenic. 249, Fries. 251, Matthew. 254th, Matthew. 255, Siroid. 259, Pinzenic. 283, Kugel. 296th, Melnik. 302, Pinzenic. 304th, Melnik. 307, Gerasimov. 310th, Goncharenko. 311th, Matthew. 316th, Friesov. 319, Kugel. 320th, Melnik. I'm continuing our work after a break until the day's agenda is completed, the issue of the order of the day. 330th, Gordyev. 334th, Fries. 335th, Gerasimov. 345, Kugel. 351th, Matvienka. 354th, Matthew. 357th, Matthew. 359th, Siroid. 366th, Siroid. 371th, Siroid. 373, Lechchenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u82	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's a question of legal certainty, of legal certainty, actually. The bill now states that the Court of Auditors takes a decision that is sent along with an appropriate report to the object of control. But the bill does not define the concept of the “decision of the Court of Auditors” and does not set out the requirements for such a decision and its content. And that's why we need to clarify, and what we're talking about, basically, under the decision of the Court of Auditors, which is a meaningful workload. So I would like to add that, "The Court of Auditors is taking a decision that approves the report or the information on the follow-up, and measures are being taken to implement its results." This is essentially a matter of legal certainty, so that it is prescribed, and what kind of decisions can the Court of Auditors actually make? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u83	30 seconds to Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u84	Honorable National Deputies, an exclusive list of decisions that can be taken by the Court of Auditors as defined by this law. And this clarification in this part doesn't bring in a sense of exertion. So I'm going to leave the committee here because it's still very clear what decisions the Court of Auditors is taking as a result of the State's external control measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Therefore, the honourable colleagues who support the 373 amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[12:02:15]] For-73 The decision is not made. 374 – Gordjeev. 375 - Siroid. 381 - Pinzenic. 382 - Pinzenic. 389 – Gerasimov. 391 – Agafone. 396 – Gerasimov. 398 – Welcome home. 407 – Fries. 414 - Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u86	We're going fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u87	And I'm sure you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u88	421th, Matthew. 423rd, Siroid. 424th, Gerasimov. So we were able to look at all the amendments that were made to the bill. Now, I urge and urge the MPs to enter the hall. A vote is about to take place. An extremely important reforming bill. It is vital that we are able to be mobilized. And while the deputies enter the hall, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Umanski. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u89	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important law, and we are grateful for the committee's work on the second reading proposal. But there are two positions that I would like to pay attention to and perhaps comment on Mr. John. We create, we continue to create dangerous, precedents in the budget system. First. There is a special arrangement for the approval of the budget of the Court of Auditors, which is different from the general system, of the general approaches provided for in the Code of Budgets. Its essence is very simple. If we as a government don't take into account the proposals in the drafting of the State Budget Act of the Court of Auditors, they go directly to the Supreme Council with this budget. First. This is part of article 5 of the bill. And the second. Article 24 of the bill deals with the conditions of pay. We created a precedent for special pay conditions when we created the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Here it is proposed to set 30 minimum wages — head, 27 — for substitutes. There should be general rules for the payment of wages, including the direction of central authorities. Exclusions and special approaches, to our deep conviction, should not occur. So as a whole, by supporting the draft bill with committee proposals, we would ask very much for these two rules to be removed from this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u90	Ivan Krulko, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u91	These two amendments have just been made by the First Deputy Minister of Finance. Well. First of all, I want to say that in the committee, including with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, we've been discussing for a long time, including these two things, and what's in the law is the compromise formulations that the Ministry of Finance has adopted. With regard to the budget request, the Court of Auditors submits a budgetary request to the Ministry of Finance as well as to all other bodies financed from the State budget. At the same time, there is a compromise saying that when a budget bill is being prepared for second reading, the Court of Auditors may refer to a committee that prepares the budget for second reading, that is, the Budget Committee, but does not transfer its funds directly to Parliament. There is no such thing in the law, so the amendment makes absolutely no sense. As far as the question of pay is concerned. I propose that the Ministry of Finance, together with the government, maybe with the MP Corps, let's put in this room and pass once and for all one law on paying for the work of all government officials in Ukraine. So the state knows how much the President gets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u92	Thank you, colleagues. How much does everyone get? Please, 10 seconds. Both speaker and national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! So I'm proposing, I'm asking everyone that we should adopt this law in the second reading and in general in the same way that the committee proposed. And the other questions that apply to pay are, really, let's do it all together and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. And please prepare for the vote on the question, registration number 2072, draft bill on the House of Accounts, second reading. And there is the proposal, the conclusion of the committee, to accept in the second reading and in general, the honourable colleagues. Please. Ready to vote? Please, in the second reading and in general, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. In the second reading and in general, please vote. [[12:07:36]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, national MPs! Please take your seats. Ready? I'm going to put the vote back on second reading. Please support the return to consideration in the second reading. Vote please, Your Honor. It's a comeback. Vote please, Your Honor. Please support your return to your second reading. [[12:08:32]] For 229 We're back, dear friends. Let's take a minute from the faction so we don't lose that question. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Petra Prashenko Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u95	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to listen to what the Ministry of Finance said. Problem one. We have to have the only budget rules for all budget recipients, because the budget is the only whole document. We can't have 10 budget codes here. That's the first question. The second question. What we regulate in every single law, the pay of individual categories creates a vacchanal. There has to be a full logic to the construction of wages. It has to be either the only law, or it has to be the only body that determines the proportions of the pay. That's why my offer is next. Put on the third reading these two norms and, on the third reading, reconcile these two rules with the government and then vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there still an insistence on the faction? Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help. And from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. A great deal of work was done by the Committee of Budgets, personally John Krulko, as the head of the process. This is our only independent government authority. We cannot place his budget in the hands of the Ministry of Finance, which will keep him on a short leash. So this is the right position. It's the only body that can control the government, and it's the Supreme Council's control. We have a government control function, not just to delegate and appoint someone. Can I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u98	Thank you. "Department", People's MP Skork. Then Oleg Lazko. And Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Deputy Skorik, Opposition Block. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! In all civilized countries, the Court of Auditors Act and the Court of Auditors is a tool in the hands of the opposition to control power. That law you're trying to adopt, that authority is going to control itself, and the level of corruption in the state is only going to increase. I therefore call on the MPs not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u100	Please, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u101	The Radical Party faction proposes that the bill on the House of Accounts be sent to read the second reading again. In our faction there are a number of observations to this bill. At the same time, we understand the need for an effective functioning of the Court of Auditors. But I would like to say here that there is no manager in the Court of Auditors today, there are no authorized members of the Court of Auditors whose terms of office have expired. There are constitutional powers of the Court of Auditors to control expenditure and the revenue of the state budget. Let us now appoint a new head of the Court of Auditors, the new members of the Court of Auditors, in which the term of office coincides. There are constitutional standards that allow them to work. Sadly, though, the Court of Auditors does not work today because it coincides with the term of office of the members of the Court of Auditors. So you don't have to put the wagon in front of the mare. We choose the members of the Accounting Chamber and let them work. That's enough. It would be political, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u102	Please, The People's Front, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Krishna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u104	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! The People's Front faction believes that the bill must be re-readed. We must take into account all the comments of the Ministry of Finance, all the comments of the deputies. And on a second reading, we must consider this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u105	Colleagues, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they To be voted on in the second reading. Not in general, but in second reading. Send to third reading. And the committee will prepare him. Please, Ivan Krulko, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u106	Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out right now that we and the First Deputy Minister of Finance have just been talking about the two norms that have been raised. It's a deal. By the first norm, the compromise formulation of the committee remains. By the second norm, we adopt this law and immediately, together with the committee and with the government, we write a law on paying for work in Ukraine. And I ask that in such an editorial, this is confirmation from the First Deputy Minister of Finance and we vote on the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u107	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u108	Thank you. It's really a very important law. I'd like to support him, because he's the one who's been sorting out the account room. On the payroll. We are prepared to compromise the commission of the committee, the government, the social committee, to enact a law that regulates the House of Auditors, including the terms of pay. A separate law by all, the only pay-per-view conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u109	Fellows, look, there's the next proposal, we can now send it back for a second read, so that means we have to rework everything, all of it. Everything that's been done. Well, what's wrong? It's the same procedure as the second reading. But if we were to now come up with the question of sending him to third reading, and with these two questions to work on budgeting, and the wage, what Victor Pinzenik made, then we could take these proposals into account. Ivan Krulko, literally a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, because we are just with the Ministry of Finance, which is with the government, settling all the issues, I would like to mobilize the hall and still vote on this very important law. Look at what we're risking, if we don't vote now, we're continuing to authorize the members of the Court of Auditors who have been in office for more than two years now with the deadline for which they were appointed. This is unconstitutional when members of the Court of Auditors work beyond the deadline. Let's make it possible to open up a normal opportunity, at an open competition, to select new members of the Court of Auditors and to vote on a law that is supported by civil society, international experts and almost all the factions that form part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u111	Colleagues, then maybe do it this way, okay. We've already spoken. In order of discussion, we have two proposals: to vote on it in the second reading and in general, third position -- if it doesn't get votes, second reading, you're a committee, and third sentence, if these two don't pass, third sentence -- to send it back to third reading. preparing for the third reading in these two positions. That's why I'm asking you to focus right now. I'm going to put all three of them to a vote so everyone can make a statement. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote the adoption of this law in second reading and in general, because there were people who did not vote and talked about it. Colleagues, second reading. In the second reading and in general, the honourable colleagues, and in a separate law, we will prepare what the first deputy has proposed with the government's mandate, and we will do so now. Please, in the second reading and in general, with the government’s mandate. What Igor Umansky said. Please, fellow believers, in second reading and in general. Please vote. Please vote in second reading and in general. Please. Vote. [[12:16:49]] For 184 There's no decision. 184. Next. Let's go back, let's go back to work. Let's go back to his consideration. That's right. Vote. Okay. The next offer is for re-reading. For the second reading again, colleagues, to the committee, for the second reading again. Please vote. For a second reading to the committee. [[12:17:23]] For 248 Decision taken. I think it's a wise decision. Return the second reading to the committee and continue processing it. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the Rules, I declare a 30-minute break. We continue our work at 12 o'clock, 45 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u112	Colleagues, please invite a colleague into the hall. We're continuing our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We continue our work. We stopped at the send-off of the bill on the account room for re-reading. There's a faction position. And I now invite you to take a moment to consider the proposals of factions and the committee of profile under this draft law. I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their seats. Let us now vote our return to this issue, my honourable colleagues. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats, please. Are you guys ready to work? I'm about to make a motion to return to the matter of the House of Accounts. Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front. A minute is an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we have consulted with the faction leaders and have come to a compromise that it is important for us today to adopt the bill on the House of Accounts, which we have worked on. And make it as professional as possible, taking away any moments from there, the possibility of blocking professional members, as members of the Court of Auditors. Accordingly, certain amendments to the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors will now be announced by one of the drafters of the bill, John Krulk. They agree with faction leaders. And the suggestion is to go back to the question and support the bill in second reading and in general. With appropriate regulations to make it as easy as possible for the members of the Court of Auditors to be appointed, to make them professional and independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for us to return to consideration now in 2072. It's consistent with the faction proposals. Ready to go back? Colleagues. Ready? Please take your seats. Let's make a call for the return. Let's see how many people we have in the hall. Colleagues, prepare for the signal vote, please. Please. As for the return of 2072. For offering coalition factions. 2072. Ready, colleagues, for your return? Please, colleagues. Let's vote in advance for the return of 2072. Draft Law on the House of Accounts. Are we focused? Please, colleagues, we're voting in for the 2072 return. Please. Show us how many votes we have for this offer. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:10:03]] For 216 Great. 216. There is an opportunity to make that decision. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Take your seats. Please take your seats. Colleagues, please, once again, concentrate. The question of the proposal to return to question 2072. I ask you to support this is a very important bill of the bill on the House of Accounts. If understanding is found to support this law, I think it's worth it. Go back to him and reconsider the possibility of making a decision on him. Please, colleagues, support the proposal for a return to consideration of 2072. Please vote. Please. Return is 2072. Please vote. It's a return, colleagues, a return. [[13:11:22]] For 230 Great. Very good. We're back. Now, see, there is a suggestion to cancel the ruling, in accordance with the 48th article, until it is signed, which was accepted for second reading. Therefore, I ask you to support the annulment of the ruling that we voted on, because it is not signed to refer this draft law to read again. We're still opening the way for consideration. Do you have a deal? I'll bet: Cancel the order for re-reading the bill on the Court of Auditors, registration number 2072. Please support this proposal. Then we have the opportunity to work. Please support, colleagues, we vote. As far as the decision is concerned. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:12:17]] For 238. Thank you, Your Honor. 238. Decision taken. And I give the floor to the head of the committee. More specifically, the deputy head of the committee. Ivan Krulko, please. We listen carefully to the suggestions, our colleagues, and we concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u115	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the factions of the coalition have found understanding and compromise. And now I'd like to read under the transcript the compromise that we're going to vote on. So this is about the chapter of the bill "Transitional and Ending Positions." In line with the "Transitional and Final Provisions", it is proposed to complete Article 208-2 "The order of appointment and discharge of the Head and other members of the Court of Auditors", which will be amended in this article. The first amendment, in part 3 of the article, after the words "for each candidate" is a dot, and the following words "and the recommendations for appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors according to the number of vacancies" are deleted. It's part three we've made a change. And now we're filling in. We complement part five with the following paragraph, part five of the same article: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine shall determine candidates for the posts of the members of the Court of Auditors by a rating vote and approve the list of members of the Court of Auditors, according to the number of vacant posts, by a majority of the votes from the constitutional composition" – here is the compromise option for the appointment we propose to apply. As this will be done in practice: all the candidates who will be submitted will be considered in the Hall, then there will be a ratings vote where the 9th list will be defined, and after who has obtained the highest rating on this list, they will be put to the vote by the list of 9 candidates who have obtained the most, and so we will form the composition of the Court of Auditors. Thank you. I would like to vote on the whole bill, taking into account this proposal, which has found its reflection in the form of compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is a very good offer that includes the whole Parliament, all the national MPs in the process of electing candidates, and thus ensures the realization of all the rights of every national MP. So I would now like to put to the vote a proposal that is agreed upon with regard to the draft Law (2072P) on the Second Chamber of Accounts, and in general with regard to the law that John Ivanovich Krulko has just announced, taking into account. Please settle down, colleagues, prepare and vote 2072 in the second reading and in general with an amendment announced by John Krulko as head of the budget subcommittee. Please vote, please support, colleagues, in the second reading with the amendment, please vote, please support, please support, colleagues. [[13:15:24]] For 255 Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we have introduced a draft Law on Citizens, i.e. electronic petitions and electronic petitions (2299). I propose the following thing: I will now invite the committee head on this matter. But I would suggest that a big committee job is extremely large, we have a great agenda, let's make this electronic petition a real committee vote, because if we're going to be right now, we don't want to exterminate the law and derail the committee itself. Please report to Gregory Nemira. Please concentrate, colleagues, we still have a lot of laws that we need to adopt. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the second reading is a bill that is new, new in view of the fact that it has introduced one of the tools of electronic or digital democracy into the normal set of tools used by the Ukrainian Parliament for more than 20 years. Why is this important? It's important not because it's fashionable, it's important because it makes it more possible for citizens to influence decisions that they make or do not take into account Parliament, take or don't accept government, accept or accept the President of Ukraine, take or don't accept local self-government. I want to say that in its time, Britain, when it first started this tool in 2011, and there was an open site in the palace, in Parliament and in the government, it broke on the first day because there were a lot of references. In the first year of the electronic petition system, they were signed by more than 6 million citizens of Great Britain. And, of course, I don't think we have any way of lagging behind the countries of mature democracy. I want to warn you that if this is done, all the problems will be solved. But it's a new practice, it's going to need adjustment. And that's why I would urge you to look at the problem when voting in the second reading right at this point of view. I want to point out that the committee and we voted on the basis of the President's draft, but we took into account the maximum possible and alternative bill introduced by the People's Deputies. I would like to point out that out of the 92 proposals that have been made, 32 are offered by the committee to consider either fully or partially or editorially, while others are rejected. What about two principles? Proposal No. 70, we suggest that it be included in such an editorial if the electronic petition contains concerns about its consideration at parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine or public hearings of the respective territorial community, the petitioner has the right to present an electronic petition at such hearings. In such a case, the time frame for consideration of an electronic petition continues for the time needed for the hearing. The committee also voted in favour of Amendment 92, which unfortunately was not supported by the Regulatory Committee, and therefore the Hall is to be established. Please support this project in its second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus on your work: an extremely important bill. And I would now consider this bill according to the committee's decision. The committee's been working on this issue a lot, and I think we can look at this proposal right now. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a committee of profile to adopt in the second reading and in the entire draft of Law 2299. There's a question about the amendments. There's an offer to work on the amendments. I now have a suggestion that there is a violation of the Rules (not just what articles I would quote). Dear colleagues, please, Gregory Nemira. 1 Amendment, Semimenach People's Deputy and Danchenko. Are you insisting? Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, Semenha Roman, Self-Help faction. I propose to support this amendment. It refers to the substantial expansion of the addressees of electronic petitions, namely the addition of central executive authorities and local government administrations. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for today in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, there are actually district councils and some district councils that are not working. And district government administrations and district government administrations remain or are not the only legitimate body. That's why I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u120	Please, colleagues, there's an offer. Committee comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u121	This amendment has been rejected, because among the addressees, the bill provides for the Cabinet of Ministers, because even here, even those present in the Hall are misdirected in the entire system of central executives, it will be an additional confusion that will allow any bureaucrat to reply that you have not addressed. That's why we insist that the addressee -- the Cabinet of Ministers -- in this case, or the authorities of local self-governance are sufficiently sound and will allow us to use this tool effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of the national deputy of Semimenah, who was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:21:52]] For-166 I did not find my support for this amendment. Second amendment, National Deputy Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u123	My friends, I'm actually continuing what Roman Semenich said. If this is really how we're going to work on the amendments, then I don't see the point, in general, of discussing them, of voting immediately for the law. But with regard to the second amendment, we would like to increase the number of subjects of the appeal, since at the present time and the current text that is in place does not provide for addressing, for example, the city’s heads or executive committees of local self - government bodies, this is not possible. Thank you. And please support our editor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u124	The second amendment was rejected by the committee. Please, Gregory Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u125	I want to point out that at the time of the first reading and the second drafters, more than the group that prepared, discussed this in detail, not only in the format of committee meetings, but also in the special round table that was gathered. Each amendment without exception was given sufficient time to discuss. The logic behind rejecting this amendment is the same as before the previous amendment, which suggests leaving the term "local self-government authorities" because it's a more unified concept that's used in law and not complicated by additional names.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u126	Do you insist on voting? Please, second amendment, National Deputy Kishkar, Paul Kishkar. I'd like to make a statement. She was rejected by the committee. [[13:23:40]] For-144 There was no support for the proposal. Dear colleagues, the third amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 4th, Lensky. Don't insist. 5th Amendment, Babenko, National MP. Don't insist. Sixth, accounted for. 7th, 8th, partially counted. Yes. Let's move on. 9th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 10th. Don't insist. 11th, Paul Kishkar. He insists. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u127	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. I insist on voting and supporting the 11th, because the question of change is not about authorization or inclusion of local self-government organs, as we are told in the conclusion of the case. It's a question of how to put information on these petitions on websites. Please read out the sentence, it's very important. If this room continues to ignore the logic of the bill, let's stop this farce and vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u128	Please comment to the committee, Gregory Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u129	Your Honor, colleague Kishkar, I understand your emotions, but in this case we're talking about what was a certain process when a single bill was drafted and then the standards of another bill were fully taken into account. No one here, at this rostrum, in particular, is discrediting another bill, but there is some logic that I would call for me to follow, because we have already voted previous amendments that the term of local self-government, it covers everyone without exception. So in this case, in this case, I would still insist that this logic be followed through the entire bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 11th Amendment, Paul Kishkar. I put her to the vote, the 11th amendment that was counted, rejected by the committee. [[13:26:07]] For-162 The decision is not taken. 12th Amendment. Don't insist. Thirteen, don't insist. 14th, don't insist. 15th, Paul Kishkar. Listed, written, included in another paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u131	It's a little wrong. It's included in another paragraph. But what I want to point out is that the protection against ridiculous petitions is clearly prescribed in our paper. I wish nothing would lose the bill. I support Mr. Gregory in that logic must be alone. You and I have worked hard on this law. We will, and once again, the Self-Help faction will under any circumstances support this bill. You listen to me. But logic must be worked out. It must conform to natural laws. And if we are talking about the fact that an electronic petition does not have to be stupid or violate the law, listen to our amendment and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u132	In this case, I don't see the fundamental differences between the position of the committee and the arguments just given by the author. If Kiskar's colleague doesn't take into account the editorial that took part in his amendment, I don't see anything so bad that I can vote in the paper that the Kishkar National Deputy proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u133	Please, it is included in another paragraph. What's the offer, Gregory Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u134	Write it down as an editor. Like her, amendment number 15 is marked. So if the colleague insists, from the point of view of the committee, there are no fundamental differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u135	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u136	In this case, I would like to encourage support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u137	Colleagues, corrected the 15th Honorable Fellow National MP Paul Kishkar. The committee supports this amendment. I'm also asking my colleagues to support me. Let's vote and take this amendment into account as it just sounded. Please, colleagues, we're voting. The committee supports. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote, support, colleagues. The common position of both the committee and the national deputy. [[13:28:28]] For 252 Thank you, 252, decision taken. Dear colleagues, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u138	16th is an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u139	17th, don't insist. 18th counted. The 19th counts partially, they don't insist. 20th, don't insist. 21st count. 20th, don't insist. 21st. Are you insisting? Veselova, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u140	I insist on my right. "To publish on the public union website" is to exclude these words.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u141	In this case, there is some contradiction. You are part of a faction that supports the logic that we have just voted for, and in this case you propose to exclude social networking sites from those where. Another petition-gathering mechanism. So the reason why this amendment was rejected is obvious and clear: it excludes the democratic mechanism for collecting signatures to support electronic petitions on both public and public websites. In this case, we have to be able to collect these petitions, and on public web portals this practice exists in many countries. Therefore, we propose not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u142	Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. The 22nd is partially accounted for. 23rd, don't insist. Twenty-four, no insistence. 25th, don't insist. 26th, 27th count. 28th, don't insist. 29th, too. 30th, they don't insist either. 31st, 32nd, 33rd. 32rd, don't insist. 33rd, don't insist. 34th is an editorial. 35th overturned. 36th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 40th. Counted. 41st. Don't insist. 42nd. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 44th. It's too much. 45th. Counted. 46th. Edited. 47th. Don't insist. 48th. Don't insist. 49th. Don't insist. 50th. Counted. Next included in editorial and partial: 50th. 51st. Edited. 52nd. Partially counted. 53rd, Paul Kishkar. Please. The score is edited in the table. Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u143	Paul Kishkar, "self-help" faction. This is about the term of the congregation, which was, in principle, the biggest or least problem of the bill, the deadline for collecting signatures to support petitions. So today, we've decided on a compromise decision for three months to collect these petitions to the central executive authorities -- The President and the Supreme Council. After all, I'm going to ask the authorities to support the deputies for six months. You want to see a productive collection of these signatures. I don't know what the human identification system is going to be like, but we haven't actually come up with that yet. But I have to say, if it's six months, we might get more high-quality petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u145	Well, that's the question, I think it's a test. Logic, when the committee considered such a time frame was that 20 days looked too small as it was in the basic bill, 6 months too much. And agree, colleague Kishkar, if this is six months, then even any company can lose its momentum and no one will be interested in what happens after six months. So the compromise that was proposed for no more than three months is absolutely consistent with the logic of testing this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u146	Thank you. There's no insistence on a national MP. 54th is partial. 55th. Don't insist. 56th. 56th, Yuri Levchenko is partially counted. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u147	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In our 56th amendment, we propose to specify exactly in the law how many signatures are needed for the size of the territorial community to collect signatures under petition. The point is, it says that the amendment is partially taken into account, but it's not included, because everything that's proposed to do is temporary until such decisions are prescribed in the statutes of the territorial communities, to prescribe these norms. But I think it should not be in the statutes of the territorial communities, it's in the law. Because in the statute you can then draw anything. If one or the other representative authorities were to benefit or reduce or increase the number of signatures they needed, they would adjust the statutes of the territorial community accordingly. Accordingly, it is in the law that we need to establish how many signatures there should be for which communities, so that there are no manipulations and various political games. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u148	Dear colleague Lechchenko and distinguished colleagues! Now there's a test of how decentralization or evolution is understood. In this case, it's hardly appropriate and logical to set numbers at the top. This formula, which was proposed, is defined by the statute of the territorial community, where the community itself determines according to their characteristics, is absolutely democratic, it corresponds to the organizational idea of constitutional changes towards decentralization. Please accept this compromise formula.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u149	I absolutely want to support the position of the committee. Please, Your Honor. Are you insisting on the amendment? Please, the amendment of the Lewchenka People's Deputy, 56th, which is not supported by the Committee, be determined. [[13:35:59]] For 133 I couldn't find any support. I want to thank the head of the committee for taking such a sensitive position on issues of decentralization. Thank you. Paul Kishkar, 57th. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, in the course of the logic expressed by Mr. Levchenko, there is a risk that changes to the statutes of the communities will take place after the "teen" years, i.e. petitions as an instrument will not work. So we ask you to cancel this rule. But at this point, from the signing and promulgation of this bill, petitions have to work, civil society instruments, access to ideas to local self-government have to work. And we insist that the numbers be clearly anchored in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u151	It was the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u152	So I repeat this position and I want to say that this is included in the Transitional positions. In this case, once again, colleague Kishkar, you know, we're talking about distrust of territorial communities. And territorial communities might say, there's a lack of trust in Parliament, what are you setting us some numbers and limits? If there's logic, then logic has to be, the decision has to be made where it's closest to the citizens who live there, so I would call for this logic to be followed fairly, in all law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u153	Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you, there is indeed a procedure for the adoption of statutes and this is the political responsibility of local self-government. If they want to be closed, if they want to be cunning, they won't be converted, and we know it. Please don't insist? Thank you, Mr. People's Commissioner. 58th. Declined. Don't insist. 59th. Counted. 60th. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. 62nd. Don't insist. 63rd. Don't insist. 64th. Don't insist. 65th. Counted. 66th. Don't insist. 67th. Don't insist. 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. Are they insisting? Excuse me, please. 69th. People's MP Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u154	I am deeply grateful to the committee for taking into account my 79th amendment. But I'd like to ask you to put 69 amendments to the vote. The point is that the project does not provide for restrictions on the resubmission of electronic petitions from the same questions and the mechanism for responding to the actions of authors who abuse the right to an electronic petition. But once the answers are received, they will again address the relevant government or local government on the same issue. So my amendment was the following: I don't deal with repeated electronic petitions by the same body, by the same citizen, by the same question. So I'm asking you how to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u155	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please, the amendment 69 was rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. It was not supported by 69 amendments. [[13:39:54]] For-144 There was no support for this amendment. 68 revisions. National MP Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u156	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. The logic of the amendment is that if it is prescribed to publish information about the beginning of its consideration, a petition, that is, it may be the abuse of local authorities or public authorities specifically as to the concept of publicity. So we got 25,000 votes or 50 votes, but we don't publish it. So we ask you to vote in favour of the deadline, to vote in favour of the petition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u157	You know, there's a technical complexity here, because who determines the date of recruitment, who decides. And the term that was proposed as a compromise, the consideration of an electronic petition takes place immediately, no later than 10 days to publish information on the beginning of its consideration. I mean, I wouldn't be doing micromanagement here, and I didn't suspect anyone would be abused there, anywhere, or anywhere else. There's a deadline: not later than 10 days. And I would suggest not to insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u158	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please, Paul Kishkar, 68th, not supported by the committee. [[13:41:42]] For 169 I did not find my support for this amendment. 69th overturned. 70th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u159	70th, I want to repeat under the transcript what we were talking about. It's about the idea of a so-called social elevator, or a social escalator, as anyone wants. The point is that if the petition has received enough votes, the author is given the opportunity to speak and present it. But the amendment proposed in the paper by colleague Kishkar and Opanasenko was also an automatic standard of meeting the petitioners personally. In this case, this rule is not contained in other countries, and because a compromise decision was made, it was decided to leave it in the way I read it. If an electronic petition concerns its consideration at Parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council or public hearings of the relevant territorial community, the petitioner has the right to present an electronic petition at such hearings. In such a case, the time frame for consideration of an electronic petition continues to be the time limit needed for the hearing. The author of the amendment also supports this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor. Are you insisting on this amendment? Don't insist, everything. 71st. Don't insist. 72nd. Edited. 73rd. Don't insist. 74th. Don't insist. 76th. Don't insist. 77th. Don't insist. 78th. They don't insist either. 79th. 76th counted editorially, written down. 76th Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u161	Paul Kishkar, Self-help. It says, "and it's also sent in paper form or in electronic form using an electronic signature." There's no word in the text of an electronic committee using an electronic signature. I believe that we can all preserve nature. Save nature, use modern technology and vote, and support the transmission of such information electronically, using electronic digital signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u162	Do you insist on putting her to the vote? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u163	But. But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Kishkar, you're proposing in your editorial "and it's also sent in paper form or in electronic form."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u164	Thank you. 76 votes. [[13:44:39]] For-144 No support, 144. Thank you. 79. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 80, don't insist. 81, don't insist. 82, 83, accounted for. 84, don't insist. 85, don't insist. Eighty-six, accounted for. 87, don't insist. 88, accounted for. 89, don't insist. 90, don't insist. Ninety-one, partially accounted for. 92nd. Counted. These are all corrections, dear colleagues. There is a proposal to take your seats and vote on an extremely important element of e-democracy, namely the draft Law (registration number 2299). Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal on Electronic Appeal and Electronic Petition, introduced by the President of Ukraine (registration No. 2299). There is a proposal to take your seats and vote in the second reading and in general, in the second reading and in general, this draft law. Are you guys ready? We vote in the second reading and in general. We vote 2299 according to the committee's decision, generally, in the second reading, and generally, colleagues. [[13:46:27]] For 288 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Andrew Teteruk, please make an offer. Is that a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u165	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, today is an extremely important day, because we must adopt laws that will help reform the Internal Affairs System, the Prosecutor's Office. So today at 3 p.m., our first patrol officers will take an oath. I very much ask that all national MPs remain and work continuously to adopt a force block of laws so that people can take an oath and prepare for the first day of patrol duty as the National Police of Ukraine. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u166	Thank you, colleagues. There's an offer to work all the time, I think it's right, it's right. We can even do this break later, then even consult in the middle of the coalition. Parliament’s leadership is and will be. Colleagues, there's a proposal made by Andriy Anatolyovich Teteruk to work for work in 15 hours. In 15 hours, then the hour breaks in. I want to put the next thing. Look, we're working until 15 hours, then we're on a break hour and then we're doing a night meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to put, right, this proposal. Stop! Please take your seats. One minute. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u167	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. I thank both the members of the committee and Mr. Gregory Nemira personally, and the President's representative in the working group, Mr. Dmitri Simkov, for the enormous amount of work that has been done since the introduction of new technologies, I think in our Parliament, in the work of local self-government bodies. I'm not the smartest person. None of us are the smartest person in the world. And we have to use other people's ideas. And let's say genius, I hope, in the future, maybe six months from now, this tool will work, six months from now, we'll be looking at the brilliant ideas of our fellow citizens as bills. Thank you and thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-02-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to work until three o'clock. Take a break from 15 to 16. I ask you to vote on this. We're working till 3:00. We announced that there were 10 hours off. Please work until 3 p.m. Continue the morning session of Parliament until 15 p.m. Please vote in 15 hours, now work. [[13:50:05]] For 219 Let's do it again. 219. Vote. Continue the meeting until 3 p.m. Please continue the meeting by 15 hours. Vote. Vote. Up to 15 years old, colleagues. [[13:50:28]] For 209 There's no wish. Will we work? Let's work. Up to 15, my friends. Let's do it again, okay? Yeah, we're up to 15, and from 15 to 16 we're taking a break. Okay? It's okay. Let's do it again. Colleagues, come on, let's work. To resume the morning session by 15 hours. Please vote, please support. Up to 15 years old. I'm asking you to support me. Let's support it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, don't argue, let's support it. [[13:51:23]] For 217 There are voices, I feel like there is. Again. Vote please, colleagues. It's 15 o'clock in the morning, guys. We're working. Vote! Let's support it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're working! We're working! We're working! [[13:51:48]] For 205 No, actually, colleagues, no shame, because it's an unexpected offer, so you don't have to. Next, dear colleagues. The proposal is that we now have to vote in the morning session, the proposal to continue the evening session, for example, by 21 hours today. Please vote: continue the evening session by 21:00. In 21 hours, please vote. The evening session will continue until 9:00 p.m. [[13:52:31]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're starting an evening session at 16 hours, and I'm asking everyone to arrive without delay, because there are a lot of important questions. I remind you, we work from 16 to 21. Please take this into account. Thank you, Your Honor. The leaders of the coalition, please come to the 3rd floor of the council hall.
