ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We're starting our morning session. I ask all deputies to take their seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the registration and commencement of our joint work. Once again, I would like to thank all the Ukrainian national deputies for the important day that they were adopted yesterday, enough and systematicly important laws of Ukraine have been adopted. And I think if last day's performance becomes the norm for the Ukrainian Parliament, it would mean that we are sufficiently effective in our work. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:06:34]] 256 National Deputies. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleague on his birthday. Today he is celebrated by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Semenovich Pressman. Let's welcome him on his birthday. Welcome, mate. Dear colleagues, today we begin our plenary day with an hour of questions to the government. And the important issue that we agreed to consider is tariffs, social protection, transparency of the tariff system. And according to our decision today in Parliament, we will be informed about the tariff formation of the head of the Commission on the regulation of the public services and energy market. He will also report to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for 10 minutes. And the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine is talking about social compensators for Ukrainians. That is to say, an adequate, high - quality social protection system should be built in connection with an increase in economically sound tariffs. We're starting our work. Please, Dmitri Volodymyrovich Wolf, 10 minutes, head of the commission. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! First of all, I welcome everyone to the upcoming festivals. It is a pleasure to see those deputies who have come to listen to important questions in the hall today, even though they are not paying attention to the festivals. In fact, the regulator’s work is very important. Its task is to balance the interests of the state, consumers and businesses, because they always have a conflict of interest. Businesses want to get profits, consumers want to lose money at all. And in this case, the State's task is to set economically sound tariffs by regulators and protect socially vulnerable populations by protecting them from the Ministry of Social Policy. On this issue, Mr. Rosenko will be able to report in more detail. In a coalition agreement, all coalition factions indicated that they support the transition to economically sound tariffs. Such a transition should be gradual, with a transparent disclosure of self - worth. The commission is moving in this direction. In February and March, decisions were made to gradually increase electricity prices in five stages, to an economically sound level, and to gradually increase gas prices. We also plan this work in two years, as stated in the coalition agreement. Now let's think about why we should raise tariffs. For a very long time, the authorities played with the population, and for a very long time they did not raise tariffs to preserve their authority. What did all of this lead to? All of this has led us to have underfunded enterprises, very high consumption, and in the end, for small tariffs, we pay our taxes. It's time to break this wrong circle and make a clear distribution of who's doing what. The regulator's task is to set economically sound tariffs, and the Ministry of Social Policy's task is to provide support to socially vulnerable groups. It's about the promotion. Most of the population and MPs may be interested in increasing gas prices. In fact, in March we decided to increase gas prices. It should be understood that the price of gas consists of the price of gas as goods, taxes, and transport of gas to the final consumer. To figure out what is the full cost of economically sound self-sustainment, you're going to have to take a contract price with Gazprom to add all the taxes, and you're going to see what the economic price is. If you do these calculations, you'll see in the example of businesses and board regulations that in April the total price for businesses is about 9,600 dollars. For the population, the controller set the price of 3,600 dollars and 7,200 dollars. 3600 bracelets is a very difficult decision for the regulator, because that's 50 percent of the price we were oriented towards. This price is most used for those who live in villages that consume the most gas. 3600 dollars per thousand cubic meters is the price per 200 cubic meters over the heating period that we set this tax price, from 1 October to 30 April. Just starting with 201 cubes, you can pay at 7,187. On the other hand, everyone is asking questions: How can a person in the village pay such a big bill? The answer is very simple. There's a Ministry of Social Policy that provides all the unprotected sections of the population with targeted subsidies. Not giving everyone in Ukraine a low price for gas, but only those who need a low price for gas. For its part, the National Commission obliged all energy transmission companies to send out subsidies during April and May. All who have received subsidies before will continue to receive them. If you have any questions, I can answer them. If you'd like, I can take a look at the questions that were sent to the Cabinet of Ministers from the Peter Dustenk Block and the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u3	Colleagues, I've got an offer to make next. You don't have to sit down right now. Minister of Energy speaking. We'll have more time to ask. What are we going to pull? Minister of Energy. Then he's the minister of social policy. And then let's go to the questions. In fact, you are addressing a letter. And they need an answer. If you don't, there's no questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll go through the questions that have come forward today. 11 questions: 9 from the Petr Prashenko faction and 2 from the Opposition Block. I'll be right with you. First question. Is Ukraine’s gas sufficient? And why isn't this gas used to provide population? It's a question of principle, it's a good question. For you to understand, population consumption over the year amounts to 14 billion cubic meters. In addition, the same population uses about 6.8 billion cubic gas for heating because of the heat utility. Heat. Total is almost 21 billion cubic meters of gas supplied to the Ukrainian population. On the other hand, Ukraine is about 19.5 billion cubic metres [19.5 billion cubic meters] of gas. Those who say that this gas is enough are slightly mistaken. Why? Because first of all, we lost 2.5-3 billion cubic meters of Ukrainian mining in Crimea. This is the Black Mornaftegas, which was mined on the shelf of the Black Sea and in the Crimea, that is, these 3 billion cubic meters, which were used to provide the population, are gone. And also, there's one and a half billion cubic meters of gas that's going to be produced by Crocnaft, which is also a state-owned company that this gas should be put into population gas balance. It uses this gas for internal consumption. Right, she's using it for her consumption, not giving Naftogazu for social purposes. You made a decision recently, on May 26, this law will take effect. We, I think, together with Naftogaz, are going to hold a meeting of the Supervisory Board, gather general meetings and change management. Then you can operate on this gas for the purpose of providing the population, that is, a simple solution. At the moment, Ukrainian gas is 12.8 billion cubic metres in volume, which is used to provide Ukrainians, the population at the premium price. But as I said before, since you need 21 billion cubes, the difference of 9 billion needs to be purchased from the outside. So today it's about 250, a little bit more dollars. During the heating season, the average price was above $300. So when you mix this gas, you get the average cost for the population, at about 4.5 thousand dollars. Considering that the import gas is 9 billion, which I said is the price, there, on average 260-270, taking into account the heating season times the course. The budget, based on course 21.70, plus the transport of Cruisegas on the highway networks, then the distribution. It's also about 660 bracelets per thousand cubic meters. And on top of that, the supply fee is for accounting, it's for servicing the last, final consumer. That's an extra 90 bucks. And plus VAT 20 percent. An additional 4 percent excise duty for the population. And in principle, we're going to go to this value. So in principle, you can mathematically show the calculation of how the price for the population forms. But, I say, the main problem is consumption today. So to the extent possible. VAT, of course, 20 percent. Yes. Of course, as consumption decreases or increases in yields of Ukrainian gas, this balance will change. And by agreement with the IMF, the NCRE will review this formula every quarter if the rate changes or the cost of the gas that we are purchasing. For example, we expect that over the next two blocks we will be able to reduce the price of gas that we buy from Europe and from Russia. We expect the economy in total, so we're going to be able to buy gas in less than 250 dollars per thousand cubic meters. This is an opportunity for our industry to develop, that is, to reduce its self-sustainment, and to balance the cost for the gas population. So this price is going to be reviewed every quarter. In the negotiations with the IMF, they asked a pretty simple question: why can't you go to the only price? The only price solves a lot of problems. First. Corruption. Having two prices, we have a problem at the level of deception and at the level of heat-communeering with resortment. So the cheap gas that's supposed to burn for the population, for the production of heat for the population, or for the supply of fakes for the population, is sold to the industry. Just by levelling the price, and then the difference between those who can't pay, there's no other option. So in a European sense, it's a very important question, and we've managed to convince them that we can't do this right now, it's a long process. Moreover, in a coalition agreement, all these issues are fixed. The point is that during 2015-2017 we will go to economically sound gas prices. So in principle, we formed this agreement with the IMF in the spirit of the Coalition Agreement. By 2017, every year these changes will be made, except as I said, as a quarterly review of the change in itself, the cost of the gas itself, plus the exchange rate differences. Well. The second question that I'd like to talk about today is, what's going on, this was the question of "Peter Prashenko's Block, which is part of the electricity tariff. This is also a very important question. I just want to say the main thing. The main possibility of keeping low-level electricity tariffs is that there's a production structure. 55 percent of electricity in Ukraine is produced by nuclear stations. The price at this point was 32 pcs, 44 pcs from this quarter. This cost had to be reviewed, or 41 cents, the cost had to be reviewed in connection with the fact that we were purchasing 100 percent of the fuel overseas in the currency. Currency exchange rates are right. Fuel accounts for 50 percent of the value of nuclear energy. Regrettably, it had to be reviewed by NCRE, which had an impact on self - worth. You can subsidize, but at the moment, given the cost of the army, there is no possibility. It's an atomic -- it's 55 percent, hydro is 5 percent. Cheap energy, unfortunately, is very small this year. The expectation that hydro will produce 20 percent less electricity this year, perhaps even 25 percent less than in the previous year. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait for cheap water energy. The third part is the heat generation. The main part of the value of the heat generation is coal, which we've talked about here a lot. And I'm sure there'll be more coal questions today. If we compare the cost of heat to European energy, we're already 20 percent more expensive today than the cost of electricity in Russia, first. So to say that we have to raise the cost of coal now, translate it into electricity, raise the cost of electricity and translate it into final consumers, we are, in the end, reducing the competitiveness of our products again. Because electricity is 7 percent of gross national product, we have a significant impact on competitiveness. Translating to the population is also a big problem. The cost of electricity over this quarter is going to increase significantly. And the cost of coal, at the moment, is essentially based on the contingents that the children's businesses don't control for some reason, because they want to include the cost of coal in the tariff, the cost of financing, that is, the interest they pay on loans, the 3 billion credits they serve, which they need to serve, but it's not clear what they're involved in and what they've spent on. And the questions we've been asking over the last six months, they don't answer. So considering that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u5	Wait a minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u6	So given that the operating cost of coal is today at 800 to 900 dollars and the tariff is set at 1,000 to 100 dollars, which is an adequate income between 900 and a thousand 100 dollars, for the coal business. And that's pretty easy to verify. You can compare it to Australian mines, South African or American mines. So to say that the cost of coal is too low, I don’t think it’s objective. We have this kind of discussion at the professional level, with the CHILD, and we're also doing this work at the mine level, which is also being run by the Ministry, and now there's a lot of questions about the development strategy of these mines. And I think next week we're going to put into public discussion a strategy for the development of this complex segment of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Minister of Social Policy Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! Let me pause a few words on those problems that, of course, have average citizens as a result of raising gas prices and, as a result, raising prices for residential services. I'm probably not going to repeat the ones I've spoken to in this rostrum over and over again when I presented the new grant program. Now there's a lot of different discussions in a variety of talk shows at the expense of the subsidy system. But perhaps to evaluate this new subsidy system, we need to compare it with what we had encountered before, what had happened before, and what had happened since the reform of the subsidy system. I just want to remind you, what we started out with was that we had to make a simple citizen, a simple Ukrainian a month ago. I would just like to remind myself that in order to obtain subsidies, three pages of the application and five pages of the declaration had to be filled in earlier. That's what we had to do, literally, a month ago. What will really need to be done after the reform of the subsidy system? This is the page of the declaration and the page of the statement. The reform of the subsidy system has made it easier for every citizen to obtain it. Today, the subsidy system will become simple and clear. And only one criterion remains to assess whether the family is entitled to a grant or not. This is just one criterion: family income. What happened a month ago, literally? Before that, there were various criteria that made it a barrier for people to receive subsidies. In particular, a family that had the right to a subsidy but had performed a medical operation for its family members for 10,000 dollars no longer had the right to receive a grant. A family who raised a child was teaching a child at a university and paid 10,000 dollars a year for it no longer had the right to receive a grant. Today these criteria are cancelled, today those artificial criteria on the basis of which any official had the right to take away this subsidy have been cancelled today. I also want to remind you of the basics of receiving subsidies. So the first is a simplified form of declaration and statement. Only two papers. The government's ruling makes it absolutely clear that none of the other documents has the right to demand from the applicant, a human official, just a declaration and a statement -- everything! No other documents, I'm stressing again. Second, the formulation of the grant. Today, the subsidy will operate not for six months of the heating season, as it was before, but for 12 months. So the subsidy will be given for the calendar year, which will allow for the social protection of families throughout the year, not just the heating season. Third. We're going to try, and this is in the government's decision to automatically recalculate subsidies for the next term. What does that mean? Like all those 1 million 200,000 families already receiving subsidies, they will not have to reissue documents. This million families will not need to re-write declarations. We will automatically list their subsidies for a new term without further applications or referrals, without additional lines in the local authorities. Fifth. All the artificial assets and financial criteria mentioned earlier will be abolished. Six. We predict that we have taken a broad, as it were, step to meet people who are renting housing today. To date, tenants have virtually been denied the right to a subsidy. Because in order to obtain subsidies, they had to be required to register in this rental facility. But it's obvious that he owns the place. Few housing owners show the desire to register the person who rents the apartment. So we took down this requirement for registration. To date, there will be sufficient leases where clearly recorded family members renting housing, with adequate utilities, and on the basis of these data, local authorities have the right to grant subsidies. Seven. It's only going to take into account the pureness of a person's walking, and we've talked about this over and over and over again, and we've explained what the difference is between what happened before and now. Eight. It's the most fundamental point for us. in the reform of the subsidy system, there is, in fact, direct information on the subsidy system in Ukraine. Such information is unprecedented. For the first time in 20 years in Ukraine, every person who receives housing services, gas services, electricity -- about 14 million families -- gets home information about the subsidy system. This government has been doing this for the first time in 20 years when every person at home will receive a statement form and a declaration form, as well as a brief instruction to fill out these forms, applications, and declarations. This has never been done in 20 years. So, of course, there are complications in this process. Not all local authorities or, let’s say, supply power companies are conscientious about doing so, but we are monitoring the fact that such information is being distributed, taking mistakes into account, and taking these mistakes into account in further activities. Today, the process of distribution of declarations forms and applications has actually started. We have information in each region: where, to whom, and how such forms are provided. And it is hoped that the energy companies, the service providers, will implement the relevant Cabinet of Ministers in due time, and in April each Ukrainian will receive information on the new subsidy system in Ukraine. And, of course, today we're talking about creating direct services to improve the quality of informing society. Today, both on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the Ministry of Social Policy website, you can see all the documents that regulate the subsidy system. Moreover, there are similar forms of applications and declarations. These are not forms of strict reporting, so everyone can quietly print this application, form statements and declarations from the Internet, quietly fill it in at home and mail it back to Social Security. This is another very important novelty in the reform of the subsidy system when we tell people that you don't have to stand in line to get a grant. You can send this declaration form by mail and you'll get a grant automatically. Also for the simplicity of citizens today on the websites of the Ministry of Social Policy and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there are calculators for the calculation of subsidies, where each family can calculate about its main size for housing services and subsidy forms. That's what I'd like to say. I'll say one last thing. This New Subsidy program is not possible without the cooperation of all branches of government, both the Cabinet of Ministers and the local authorities. Because it's the local authorities that have the most responsible mission -- in full time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u9	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u10	It is the local authorities who are responsible for the timely, full - time, and quality of the grant service. So today we do everything we can to help the authorities, the local authorities: we teach people, we print their application forms. We're going to provide local authorities with maybe new technical possibilities for developing subsidies, like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u11	Thank you, Minister. Please, Minister, take your place in the government's bed. Dear fellow national MPs! We have 32 minutes to answer the question. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording. Prepared? Please log in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u12	Please, the question is given to Stashuku Vitalia Filimonovich, the People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u13	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u14	Good afternoon! Igor Gus, People's Front, 19th Shakhtar County. Mr. Demchishin, I welcome you in a good mood today. I want to ask you. Please tell me, colleagues of miners from Novovolinsk, in Redlegrada, how the debt on salary will be repaid, including after the Supreme Council's decision to allocate 400 million. But I want to make a specific stop in Novovolinsky, if I may. Debt is still too fierce, for March, in part, for January. How will these costs help? And in principle, we can go out for a period of time, so that we can get people to work the miners, we give them their money back to stabilize the situation, there's no roadblocks there, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Gus, thank you for asking. In fact, we're planning to make a full payment by May 1st with the debt that has accumulated over the last three to four months. Indeed, thanks to the law that was passed the day before yesterday, we plan to fulfill this obligation. In addition, in the last three weeks, Centrenerego works very effectively, and in fact, the Volin station, which burns coal, including the Volin swimming pool, which is from Lviv and Volinian mines. Transport is fully open, full capacity in acquiring, and this allows you to reduce your self-sustainment. I think, starting in May, we'll start talking about development. We're already talking about development, we're counting on an iron road tariff, and we're giving money for technology. So far, it's really hard because of the accumulated debts of the previous year. By May, though, we will have fulfilled our obligations. Thank you. And with respect to the 10th of Novovolinsky, we've already completely gone through the process of making allocations. And I think next week we're going to finish the procedure with Minfin, and as a minimum, from May 1st, we're going to start funding for Novovolinsky 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u16	Please, Princess Nikola Leonidovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u17	Princely, People's Front. Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u18	I have a question for the Minister of the Agro-industry complex. According to the audit records of the Court of Auditors and the financial inspection during the period of administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, the Minister of Government of Azarov Presbytery and during the administration of Minister of Switzerland, violations totalling more than 7 billion grevens have been detected. What are you doing to deal with these violations? What actions are being taken to bring to justice those who have robbed our country?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy has made 166 appeals to law enforcement agencies totalling 9.4 billion bracelets during the "foreigners" period. So you filed separately, you know, for the Attorney General's Office, for the financieration, for the BSS. We're waiting for action. We're going to be making public again. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u20	Thank you. Osuhovsky passes the word to Yuri Lewchenk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u21	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. I'm afraid I have to go to an empty place, because there's, you see, an empty space in the lobby. Is that why I'm going to an empty place? Why didn't you come, Mr. Arseny Petrovich? It turns out that the practice of Mikola Janovich Azarov is repeated: just as that government did not go to "the government's hour of question," so this government does not go. There is no Prime Minister, there is no majority of ministers. So, actually, it's confirmed that famous video where Arsenija Petrovich says that Mikola Janovich is his great mentor, leader, and he's very proud of them. So I would still like to hear why there are no ministers, why there is no Prime Minister. And I'd also like to hear from the government that's being done right now, specifically, what are the steps that you're taking to get the Squire back into state property? Because there is a legal basis for this today, and this is clearly stated. I also appeal to the Presidium of the Supreme Council. Please finally keep your promise to the public, and put to the vote the issue of creating a TSC to investigate the facts of government corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u22	Ilyuk Artem Alexandrovich, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u23	Artem Ilyuk, Rebirth Group, city of Nikolayev. I have a question for the Minister of Energy of Demchikin. New tariffs for gas were established for the population when the dollar's prices and rates were much higher than they are now. Today, the situation has changed dramatically. The price of the imported gas dropped by about $70, and the rate of the bracelet increased. That's why I have a question. Will the Government review the tariffs on gas for the population towards reduction and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. In fact, the price of gas was formed by the time the rate of the bracelet was 21.70, I was talking about it today, and the cost of the imported gas was about $300-305. So right now, of course, as the gas goes down below $250, we're going to be able to review, but unfortunately, the exchange rate is higher today than 21.70. And that doesn't allow you to count, that is, lower this cost of gas to the full. So the economy in the import gas is, but it's compensated to a large extent by exchange rate differences. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u25	Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u28	I have a question for the Minister of Energy, of course. Two questions. The first question is what is the amount of debt for the state of gas and electricity placed in the ATO area today. And how many Ukrainians do they actually have, all of Ukraine has to pay for this gas that's uncontrollable? And the second question. This is what you mentioned the problems with the Croneft, which was actually controlled by one oligarch, and only in May can we fix this situation. The situation in Ukrenergo is controlled by the management of another oligarch. Aren't we going to have problems like Scrooge later? Maybe it's better to stop now? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. Regarding debt or supply to the ATO area. During the period from September to March, from September 2014 to March 2015, about one and a half billion cubic metres of gas was placed in the ATO zone. The average cost is about 6,000 dollars, i.e. the cost is about 9 billion dollars total. This value is unpaid. Of course, this is a problem. Delivery is down at the moment. But this question, of course, needs to be addressed with regard to the supply of gas and electricity to the fighting zone. It's about Ukrenergo. We've met very often on this subject. I am making every effort to ensure that management is transparent, clear, and effective for the benefit of Ukraine. Regarding the person who serves as director - general, I have spoken repeatedly, and he has worked for 20 years in this structure, so he is an experienced and quality specialist. Right now, I don't have any operational claims on him. During the last three months, at least, he has performed his functions in a qualitative manner. Will Gregory’s influence affect you? I'm sure he won't, he won't. So there is no point in talking about any complexity in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u30	Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u31	Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party faction. I have a question for Minister Demchikin. Please tell us that today we have solar power company Solar, which consumes almost 76 percent of the solar energy in Ukraine and receives almost 180 million euros a year. It's a company of a man who's outlawed today, and his assets have to be taken out of the country. Instead, for today, this company is to be sold to a Chinese state company. At the same time, government banks, which have almost credited to Clovis for $900 million, remain with their noses today. The same is true of solar power stations in Crimea. Today Russia, Russia’s holding banks have taken over. Why has the Ministry of Energy never contacted the prosecutor’s office about this situation? Why is it that, for today, only me as a national deputy and Sergey Lechchenko are referred to, and the ministry is passively looking at how in. they're taking huge amounts of energy and stealing these funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u32	Alternative energy tariffs are set by the Electricity Act. At the moment, under the auspices of the Fuel Energy Committee, this law is being amended. And I think for a very short period of time, it's about maybe a few weeks at most, this law is going to be developed and put into a consensus room. You'll be able to change the tariff structure at which the electricity is paid by alternative generators. There will be other innovations under this law. So I think over a short period of time this situation is going to change. I agree that companies that produce one and a half percent of electricity and get four percent of all the payments that the energy plant collects are unfair. So this situation needs to be reviewed. It's "Activ Solar." The property change situation is not under the authority of the Ministry. We asked the Attorney General's Office to clarify the situation. Any transaction should be approved by the Antimonopal Committee. So I'm confident that the Antimonopoly should report on the status and the Chinese side's attempts to get control of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u33	Lensky Alexiyyovich, Oleg Laska Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk. Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u35	Please, Andrew Teteruk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u36	Thank you. I've got an answer for that MP who's been calling out here for an empty space. I want to say that at a time when the President of Ukraine is on a business visit, visiting Odessa, the Prime Minister is on the job and is doing a tetanic amount of work. And when both of them do their utmost to ensure that Ukraine does not break down, but some have blocked the production, for example, of their gas in Moscow’s favor and call for a halt to the work of Parliament or government, there is a need for some intelligence to give an assessment of the Prime Minister or the government in such a way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u37	Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u38	Thank you. I'm sorry that the Prime Minister didn't come and report on how we're going through the delligarchization process and, for example, why we have a state-owned energy company that has taken over one-and-a-half billion dollars of Mr. Ahmetov's money to the court of Dnipropetrov. Isn't Mr. Yacinuk sometimes lobbying Mr. Ahemtov's interests if he's covering Mr. Gnatuk as head of the Energy Force DP, who now has to look for money to cover the gaps he's had? That's why I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Please tell me, are any measures taken by the Ministry of Energy to stop this equipment under the cover of the government and the Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u39	Mr. Leschenko! Mr. Lechchenko, I would like to inform you that, in fact, Energy sometimes takes such a step as restructuring the debt of some of the skyscrapers. And during this year, already 2015, such contracts on the energy side were signed for 680 million dollars. These are, of course, contracts that are short and will return to the energy market in 2015. But really, right now they really need this same generation. Because the energy plant collects from the skyscrapers and gives away the cost of the generation, the same thing as Energoatoma, the Hydro, including the heat stations that are currently buying coal, too. Therefore, payments are a key issue that is now being dealt with mainly by the regulator, and the ministry is very actively helping him do so. The appeal to law enforcement authorities regarding such steps is indeed made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u40	Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, Self Help Union. I ask you very much that it would be better for you to report to whom the replacement is going, because it is very difficult to navigate, and sometimes it is vaguely reported to whom the replacement is going. Please. Please, Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u41	I have a question for Minister Demchikin. Tell me, please, we've been very careful about what the cost of imported gas is and about the average cost for the population of 4,000,500 dollars, but you didn't say anything about the cost of self-sustainment gas. At the same time, the phrase was made that self - worth should be revealed gradually. I want to point out that there is or there is no value. This is a matter of concern. What's the cost of the internal gas that's being produced by the government's Crushing Company? And our Self-Help faction requires a detailed calculation of the self-sustainment of gas and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u42	Please be able to complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u43	And point out the method by which this self-sustainment is calculated. Also, the request to answer the question of whether there is a gas and electricity flow in Ukraine today? Thank you. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u44	It's about the cost of scrapping gas. Of course it is, I didn't say that somehow it would open up there. It is, of course, calculated by international standards, by Ukrainian accounting standards, by any method. At this point, the price at which Crushing is going to sell Naftogazu gas is 1 thousand 590 dollars. This price includes a 70 percent rent that Minfin collects and uses this resource, Minfin allows Minsoc to pay grants to those who cannot pay the full amount of the heat and gas they consume. The cost of gas last year for Crushing was about 350 dollars. This year, it's somewhere at 510 bracelets, as far as I can tell. But this is a matter that NCRE is more involved in. They set tariffs for them, they set tariffs for them according to the structure. So we're ready to come to the congregation of your faction, or perhaps we're willing to work with you personally. All the numbers are, they can basically be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u45	I ask that the speaker be given the full answer to the question of whether gas and electricity are being sold in occupied areas. Please give a specific answer to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u46	At present, electricity is not supplied to occupied areas by highways, by transmission lines, or 110, and is not supplied above. On lines 110 and below, it may be delivered. Why? Because the energy system is designed in such a way that it can't just be technically separated. Thus, small volumes flow and return to Ukraine. In principle, according to the information from Ukrenergo, we're in a more or less balanced circulatory system, i.e. a minimal flow. No supplies. In terms of gas, I can say that the system, again, is open, but as far as I know, the volume of supply is small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u47	Janicz Vasil Petrovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u48	Mr. Chairman, I have a question directly with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Profiles. Therefore, I ask you to convey my word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u49	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! I want to support those colleagues who have spoken before and to draw your attention, including Mr. Groysman, to the inadmissibility of the absence of the Prime Minister for the fifth time on the questions of "hours before the government." If he decides to usurp corruption flows and he doesn't have time for his direct action as Prime Minister, I think the Ukrainian Parliament is capable of allowing him to continue to usurp these corruption flows, and why should he be Prime Minister? We have plenty of people. And I have a question to Mr. Demchikin: why hasn't the advice you've been promised on Skrthorf been held so far, and where are the contracts that you and Russia have promised to give to the people's deputies? For two months no one saw any contracts with Russia or electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u51	Please finish the dates, 10 seconds. Will you finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u52	Not by electricity, not by coal. Where are these contracts? Why are you hiding them? Is it possible that corruption schemes are also in place? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u53	Electricity contracts were handed over to the Henprocuratorate for study. Before that, we handed them over to the commission conducting the service investigation. Again, for analysis. I understand that the same electricity contracts in Ukraine and Crimea were published on various websites. You're an MP, you're making a request, we're opening a treaty. In principle, the contract has a commercial component, so it is not possible to make a public discovery, and even more so, as a minister, it is legally impossible. Disclosure technology is very simple: demand -- and you get contracts. Regarding coal contracts, I want to assure you that during the last period, the last. Well, there's no longer a period of supply of coal from Russia. The Russian coal is more expensive than Ukrainian coal, so I understand that commercial structures don't buy it. Basically, it's everything. If you are interested in a specific agreement, please ask for it, and we will help to make it open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u54	Svetlana Petrovna's subset, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u55	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the government! I have a question for the Ministry of Finance. On April 10th, the deadline was six months after the stockholders' meetings. According to the results of these congregations, 1.8 billion dollars were to come into the state budget, and today the term coincides. I want to ask, have these funds come into the state budget? The other one. If the funds did not come, what measures were taken by the Ministry to ensure this payment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. The cost of the ransom on dividends for the state's share of the budget has not been paid. Appropriate decisions were made by the authorities, including the information in the hall today. The Ministry of Finance is not the authority of the Scrooge Administration. Thus, appropriate actions are used by both the fiscal service that is to administer the tax, the payment, and the governing body. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u57	Head Mikhailo Josephovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u58	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister, who on another occasion ignores his functional obligations — to answer questions to MPs. But given what he used to be. It used to be a kamikaze, now we see that it's a real Titan that works titaniumically, so it works that everyone today feels Ukrainian and everyone can thank him personally if he comes out to people. I have questions for the government specifically. When will you answer that you're willing to return to the state property of "The Shrine," which was illegally stolen by Ahmetov, as well as all the energy companies, TEC and GES that he privatized, i.e. the oblenergo and so on? Today we're talking about energy security, are you ready to support the Freedom that initiated in Parliament the return to state ownership of strategic energy-generating companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u59	Please give Suslova the word Eutusok. Eutusoka, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u60	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I also have a question for Minister Demchikin. Just now, my colleague Musai has made a very clear question for you about the peat industry, not what you said about coal or other things. So what I'd like to say is that now these tariffs and this population policy are very difficult for those companies that provide this service. And there was a lot of peat in Ukraine. Why is there no point in Ukraine’s energy efficiency programme on the development of the peat sector? Why in this field are the remains that are now being corruptly stolen? Can you please give an answer when it will appear? This isn't the first time we've talked to you about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. In fact, the peat industry is very interesting, especially at the current moment when the cost of gas increases. Every year, 400,000 tons of peat are produced. Compared to coal, 50 to 60 million, that's quite a bit. So I want to explain right now that it's quite a niche branch, a little bit. It's important. Calorie is twice as low. Therefore, the cost of transportation for peat is critical. At the moment, businesses that could consume at the point where peat is mined are not enough, so the sector has not evolved historically. The Ministry is doing a very active job with the Equinox and Volin peat with two enterprises in which there are large consumers who can develop these businesses. What's more, in a law that provides for opportunity. A law on the privatization of the peat industry will be introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. I think private investors will be able to develop these businesses much faster, more efficient and better. So I think this is going to be a very relevant question over the next five to six months from the point of view of privatization and from the point of view of preparation for the next heating season. We're going in, we're going in. We're fully contributing to a little bit of the opposite direction, that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Solarar Vladimir Miranovic. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u63	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u64	Again. I didn't hear. A princess? Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u65	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Kirilenko. Mr. Viacheslav, we accepted a series yesterday. and extremely important laws to change our social life and our future. Before that, we accepted questions. before that, we passed a law that limits propaganda Russian TV shows and other anti-Ukrainian products. But we do have the issue of supporting Ukrainian filmmaking, which is now effectively stopped. What does the government intend to do, and when does the government plan to pass laws on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for asking. First of all, the government would like to thank Parliament for adopting yesterday's bills, because three of them were government-level and there were no governments in Ukraine that adopted such resonant bills at their meeting. The fourth bill was introduced by the deputies of all five factions. These bills were supported, which means that society is ready to accept new ideas, and the government will implement these bills after the President's signature. It's about filmmaking. Of course, Parliament’s Law on Restrictions on Access to the Ukrainian Market, a temporary ban on Russian Miliard Series, provides an opportunity for developing Ukrainian film production. But this requires a series of additional laws that will stimulate this production. There's a motion picture bill in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Economics, in the Ministry of Justice to support the Ukrainian film. At the same time, since the matter is not entirely clear and is in need of the consent of the payers of this congregation. So as Vice Prime Minister of Culture, I hold a weekly consultation with film distributors, film producers, television broadcasters, cable network providers to find a compromise formula that would allow this bill to be approved without undue complications in Parliament. Also, TV sets offer a wide range of other interesting suggestions that are now in the government’s working system. Once they are properly formed, we will gladly forward them to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, so that we can work together on the final draft of the bill, pass it together to Parliament and approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u67	Thank you. Our time is up. Last question, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich. And let's move on to the issues. Major Mikola Romanovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u68	Grand Chief, People's Front, please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u69	Please, Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u70	Igor Lapin, People's Front. I have another question for Mr. Demchikin. Please tell the President's decree on the appointment of members of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy was the appointment of a citizen such as Tarasuk Valerija Volodymyrovich. However, everyone knows that this person is known precisely because in 2006 he took an active raider's position on the capture of the Russian emergency complex, and these evidences are groundless and are, therefore, recorded in the video. Do you have any cooperation with this person, how do you see any further work with this citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u71	Mr. Lapin, thank you for asking. But I don't quite understand why you're addressing him to me, because there's really no connection between the Ministry and the regulator. If you have any facts that support this person's involvement in any illegal activity, you should definitely go to the law enforcement authorities. I'm sure the Attorney General will be very interested in this direction. What's more, if a person takes such an important position, is a member of an energy commission, it seems to me that they need to be carefully analyzed first. So go to law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u72	Thank you. The time for a question-answer to "the hour of the government" is over. But I'm asking you to remain a government yet. Dear colleagues, this week we have considered a number of important issues, including the fight against corruption, regarding tariff transparency. And there were separate coalition meetings on this issue, and some decisions were made. And today, the coalition coordinator, Oleg Lazko, has a word for it. Okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask your attention, because I believe that the issue of verifying the facts that have been heard about corruption in the public sector is extremely important. And no matter what anyone says, but all interested in this, in order for every accusation, every suggestion of abuse to be made public must be thoroughly checked. I want to assure you that Parliament has an important role to play here. I've had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and I want to testify that he's interested in the publicity, the openness of the fact-finding process. And it is very important that both the Parliament within the framework of parliamentary control, and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, inform us clearly about what the charges were, what they are about, whether they have found their confirmation and when they will find their confirmation. Or if they find their confirmation, each individual must be punished. There is no alternative, or the process of accusations, abuses, and corruption will never end. The proposal is as follows. We need, within the anti-corruption committees, the law enforcement committee, to create special groups or a group that will carefully address the issue of fact-checking. Second position. We have today, we've identified today's priority task of dealing with tariff policy, and we need a working group to join the Social Policy Committee in identifying compensator issues. We need to think clearly about how the new grant system will work, how many people will be protected, who will be unprotected, and who will have to make decisions accordingly by the Ukrainian Parliament or the Ukrainian government in order to provide social protection for people who are unable to pay, objectively pay, for municipal services. And this is also a principled question. So here's the deal. On the basis of two committees, create a group to fight and verify the facts of corruption. On the basis of a committee headed by the Housing and Utilities Committee, headed by Sergey Skuratowski, together with the Social Committee, to establish a joint working group on the basis of a committee to ensure that the committees fully carry out their functions, which are entrusted to them by the Ukrainian Parliament and by legislation. That's the offer, and I'm now. We can make it a protocol assignment. This protocol commission I would like to ask the parliamentarians to support it, to give it joint powers, and thus we will be able to start this work thoroughly. Then I'll read the proposal that was made. And so, dear colleagues, protocol. Prepare for the vote, please, Your Honor. A protocol commission by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to verify and publish in the media the facts of possible abuses in the public sector of the economy, in accordance with the Deerfininspection data, as well as in other state-owned enterprises, I entrust the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee and the Committee on Law Enforcement Enforcement with the immediate establishment of a joint parliamentary working group to verify reports published by the Committee on Financial Violations and to verify other abuses in the public sector of the economy. The other one. The Deputies Working Group will generalize the results of the joint meeting of committees on the results of the inspections carried out by the Committee, other incidents of abuse in the internal sector of the economy, as well as the status of legal evaluation of these matters by the relevant law enforcement authorities. What it will provide, colleagues, is a comprehensive consideration of these issues. Next. To draw conclusions and suggestions on the results of the examination of these violations in a written report in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and to submit them for consideration by the Supreme Council by 7 May 2015. If appropriate agreed decisions are available to the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption and the Committee on Legislative Protection. Next. Third. U.S. Attorney General. And we also talked about this with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and it is our common position that the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, should report to the Supreme Council on the state of the investigation of the facts and other facts of the abuses in the public sector by 7 May. In that direction, we realize that there wasn't much time in the Attorney General's office. But within a few weeks, we can be informed of what is the situation with regard to the legal evaluation of the investigation of the facts. Convinced that we need to stop speaking with slogans, and we need to talk to corrupters about the articles of the Criminal Code. It is necessary to talk to corrupters and bribers not only about articles but also about terms of imprisonment for certain offences. And let us also stress one more thing. The irreparability of punishment, the irreparability of punishment, will always lead to fear of their filthy hands being pushed into the public sector, the brothers of bribes. And this is what we have to provide as the Ukrainian Parliament. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support this proposal, protocol assignment, and I ask you to vote on it. Please vote. This is our support for our protocol mandate as Head of the Supreme Council. [[11:19:52]] For 180. Thank you, colleagues. We didn't make it, I see. Invite MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, I'm on my way. It's a protocol assignment, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. As Head of the Supreme Council, I can put him to the vote. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Invite all the deputies to the House of Parliament. Can I get another beep, please? Signaled, number of deputies in the hall. Vote. [[11:20:39]] For-182 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I have an offer, please. No, I have a request. Maybe I shouldn't tell you what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u73	You're working. Thank you. Is that right? Is that right? Thank you for your advice. Take your place. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. But I want to assure you that if this is not supported now, the protocol mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council will be signed in the text in which it is written. It's in the paper that I announced. And I am convinced that it will be done. I will ensure that this assignment is accomplished. But I ask Parliament to support this, this should be our shared responsibility. Ready to vote? Come on. Please support the protocol mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a symbolic vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:21:58]] For 216 Alona Skrum didn't make it 100 percent, I saw it. Please do it again. Please support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I'll re-vote the protocol. Alona Skrum, Anatoly Matvienko, was unable to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Here, there are national MPs. Please vote, please support. [[11:22:33]] For 228 Great. Thank you. Friends! Friends, a similar task of the Head of the Supreme Council is to create a joint working group on the basis of the Committee on Housing and Social Services and Social Policy. Please support tariff policy and social protection. Please support this proposal. Please. Yeah, social policy, including. If you'll excuse me, Your Honor, I'm asking you to vote. Social policy on tariffs. [[11:23:12]] For 233 Thank you for your support, dear colleagues. We work, we work openly, in public on this issue. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. There's no motive. I ask you, when you ask for an offer, give me an article of the Rules, I'll give it to you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we have 11 to 11.30 questions to ask. I now give the floor to the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the motions. This was a proposal made by the Ukrainian national deputies to read the questions at this time. Then we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you to remain in this room because the first few requests to the President of Ukraine that require a vote. And so I ask you very much to remain in your seats, and we will now vote on those questions that are being sent to the President. So the questions came: Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine on the removal of the fine "is not subject to publication" and on the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for the former National Deputies of the USSR and the Soviet Union, the former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Comparty and their families, who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So first we put the motion to the vote and then we put it to the President. Please support the request of Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President and ask for his support in the vote to demonstrate. Please vote in favour of the request. Vote, fellows! [[11:25:13]] For-173 Thank you. And now. There's 150 votes, I'm like a procedure. Now, no less than 226 is necessary to direct the President. That's why I'm asking you to come into the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm voting for the President's request from Yuri-Bogdan Suhevich. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:25:50]] For-173 Thank you. Let's take, like yesterday, a signal vote to see if we have enough deputies who can vote for any decision. And I'm asking you to prepare for the signal right now, so we're all voting to see how many of us are in the hall. Well, please start. I'm asking the deputies who are in the towers to come into the workroom. We're already the third Friday, if I'm not mistaken, extremely important references to the President, there are only four or five, and we can't do that, because for someone to run home, it's more important than those questions that have enormous resonance and enormous significance for the country and for justice, including the request of Yuri-Goddan Shuhevich. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. As long as the MPs come in, John Krulko from the procedure, one minute, please. Ivan Krulko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Chairman, I have such an offer. Let's ask the questions that we plan to send to the President, go through, vote for their support, and vote for them as soon as the people come along. And really, make another announcement so that all MPs are in their jobs. Because it is shameful to ask such important questions, we cannot send a third Friday to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u76	Thank you. But we agreed to make a signal vote. And I ask you again, I urge all deputies to enter the hall at their places of work. I see Vladimir Parasuk has not yet returned with his deputies. Let's take a walk, before we vote, we'll go to the polls, and then we'll look at how many votes and see if we can put them to the President. So there is a request to support the request to the President of Ukraine. Paul Kiskar to the President of Ukraine for receiving State awards for the Second Battalion Special Assignment "Donbas", Military Section 3027, First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. Please support the vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[11:28:34]] For-182 Thank you. Next. Support is expressed for the request, a group of national deputies (Cornovol, Levus and others) to the President of Ukraine for the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship by Vadim Novinski as a result of the loss of Ukrainian citizenship in connection with the continuing citizenship of the Russian Federation. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:29:08]] For-174 Thank you. Vladimir Parasuka to the President of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the name Hero of Ukraine from a group of deputies. Please support, we vote. [[11:29:30.]] For-151 To the President of Ukraine about the inadmissibility of being appointed to senior positions in public administrations of previously convicted persons or persons who are currently being tried by the courts. Requesting Igor Lucenka, please support. [[11:30:00]] For 169 So we've passed the vote and supported all the queries, but it's just support. To get to the President, we need 226 votes, so we're going to have a signal vote to see if there are any deputies in the room. I ask you to prepare for the vote. We're obviously going to launch tactics to publish these signals, so that society and voters can see who's there, who's working on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and who's going to vote only during the election campaign. Please prepare for the signal vote and please vote. We're voting on the signal vote, we're all voting on the green button. [[11:30:59]] For 199 Thank you. Right now, we don't have enough votes to ask the President, and so I'm moving on to reading requests from the people's deputies to other authorities of the state. So Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the repair of roads in the Zitomirsk, Lubarski, Romani and Wonderland areas of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the further functioning of the Berez public education school I-III graduated from the Žitomir region, the Žitomir region. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with a view to acquiring the property of the medical complex of the children's enterprise "Clinic sanatorium "Lermontovski" of the Private Shareholder Society. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the special wage fund in higher education institutions and the need to edit Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.65 "On the economy of public funds and the non-acceptance of budget losses". Helen Masorina to the Kiev City Head on the need to rename a series of streets of Kiev named after the odyotic leaders of the Bolshevik era and Soviet Ukraine, such as the Stors Street on Boris Niemtsov Street and the Artema Street on Kuzmi Skribin Street. Anna Romanova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to address the issue of the work of the Schengen Group and United Kingdom consulates in Ukraine, by which the development of international tourism in Ukraine is halted. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the number of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine assigned to the ATO. Oleg Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on balancing land-resource capacity management and further quality work of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre. Alexander Abdullin to the prosecutor of the Ravens region on the inaction of the prosecutor of the District of Rivez, of the Plains region of Nina Yutovec during the hearing of Natalia Cherkovy’s complaint about the wrongful actions of the investigator and the head of the Brezni district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Plains region. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the investigator of the Brezni district office of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Rivena region of Burdnik and the head of the Brezni district office of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Plain region of the Environment, which resulted in the forfeiture of ownership of the property of a citizen of Natalia Cherkov. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine's proposals for the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the adequacy of the signing of the NATO Agreement on Cooperation within the NATO Trust Funds for the reform of the logistics and standardization system and the physical rehabilitation of military personnel injured in the ATO. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the results of the legal expertise of the draft NATO Agreement on Cooperation in NATO Trust Funds on the Reform of the Logistics and Standardization System and Physical Rehabilitation of Military Workers Wounded in the ATO between Ukraine and NATO. Alexander Chernenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures for the inaction of the officials of the Darnick District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in relation to the beating of a well-known TV scientist and public official, Andrija Jedjuli. Anton Herashchenka, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving information from the National Bank of Ukraine on refinancing loans. Anton Herashchenka is entitled to appeal to the House of Auditors in accordance with the provisions of article 15 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the National Deputy of Ukraine has the right to request the Chamber of Auditors to carry out a pre-planned follow-up procedure regarding the verification of the financial and economic activities of the State Service of Ukraine in exceptional circumstances. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of direct rail connections along the Chernigów-Lviv route. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a technology-related environmental hazard zone in the area of the Crevice Basin. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a further significant increase in freight rail tariffs. Maria Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal entry into Ukraine and the illegal crossing of the border of two members of the German Parliament, Herke and Gunko. Alexander Danchenk to the Director of the Public Shareholders Association of the Shretelekom for non-information to the management of the Public Shareholder Society of the Shretelekom. Vadim Krivohatka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the possibility of saving for a period of mobilization of highly qualified agricultural specialists. Oleg Lavrik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to handle local budgets. Bogdan Dubnevitch to the head of the Public Shareholders' Board on improving electricity supply and the quality of service for consumers in the Lviv region. Bogdan Dubnević to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the solution of urgent problems in the field of road agriculture in the Lviv region. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of rental by the Provincial Government Administration of the Kyrovograd Region of the Viktor Schovkoplas watershed on the River Breesovka, which led to the denial of access to the watershed for the purpose of fishing and recreation, and subsequently to the purpose of the destruction of the River Breesovka. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the attempts to unlawfully remove the commander of BMP-2 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Constantine Timchenka, from the post of Director of the State Enterprise Poltavadnipromszamolprom, during his military service. Dmitry Linka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the established standards of nutrition in preschool children’s institutions. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of farmers of Lebedinsky, Ohtyrski, Trieste, Velikopisarovsky and other areas of the Suma region for the establishment of a minimum price for milk. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of the medical and therapeutic corps of the Grand Duchy of the central district hospital of Suma Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the integration of the village of Orichowec in the Skuri district of Kiev into the main gas pipeline. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the completion of the construction of the underground interurban gas pipeline of the village of Rude Selo - Kapustici in the Kyiv region. Vadim Nesterenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the change of tariffs for centralized water supply and water supply for the Novoskovska Vodkanal Community Enterprise and on the avoidance of unjustified pricing for these services. Jacob Benzbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Treasury of Ukraine on the need to provide subsidies to residents of Dnipropetrovsk for housing and utilities. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine on the need for effective measures to be taken to return to the state property of the Transnistrian Railway. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the distribution of a stabilising grant for the maintenance of children's preschools, cultural houses, clubs and libraries in the territory of the region of Putil. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the status of the implementation of the third phase of the State's targeted socio-economic programme for the construction of affordable housing for 2010-2017. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine to stimulate government support for exports by small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. Sergia Kiwalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent illegal possession of property and the treatment complex of the Children's Enterprise "Clinic Sanatorium "Lermontowski" of the Private Shareholder Society "Ukrprofessional". Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal regulation of the relations of enterprises belonging to the Hajibei Lyman Fisheries Association. Alexander Revega to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures of prosecutorial response and on the responsibility of those responsible for the theft of the asphalt factory located in the Burdich district of Žitomir. Victoria Vojciecki and Lev Podliseckik to the executive responsibility of the Director of the State Enterprise for Foreign Economic Activities of Ukriinterenergo on contracts for the import of electricity made by the State Enterprise for the external economic activity of Ukriinternergo with the Open Shareholder Society of Inter RAO. Vladimir Solar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of police and prosecutorial officers of the Kyiv region during criminal investigations. The number is added. Vladimir Solar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of police and prosecutors of the Kyiv region during criminal investigations. The number is added. Constantine Jarinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the use of measures aimed at preserving a unique monument to architecture and the valuable museum collection of the Kirovograd Regional Museum of Art. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the leadership of the Ukrainian Maritime Port Administration and the Ministry of Infrastructure. Vladislav Doub to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Cerka District State Administration, Head of the Zolitani District State Administration of the Cherka region, Head of the Kanów District State Administration of the Cherkas region, Director of the Children's Enterprise "Czerkaski oblovtododor" on financing and maintenance of road repairs in the Cherkas region. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the transfer of land of state ownership to the property of the territorial communities of the district of Zakarpat. John Baloga to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the construction of the customs post of the Zacarpathian Customs of the State Fiscal Service. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the exclusion of the State Enterprise Zacarpathian Helicopter Industrialization from the Zacarpathian Region from the list of strategic objects that are not subject to privatization. Vasila Petíkovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the exclusion of individual Zacarpathian enterprises from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Vadim Yvchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the conduct of a review of the legality of the alienation of the State Enterprise "Green Bohr Rest Base" by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine. Sergey Labazuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Simplification of ATO status. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the requirements of the administration and employees of the National Natural Park "Hutzulščina" to ensure compliance with the requirements of environmental and land legislation. Jury Wozniak to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the head of the government of the Bank of Finance and Credit for the non-refundation of the Bank of Finance and Credit. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of individual officials of the U.S.U.S. U.S.O. in the Volinsk region. Mr. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the non-objective competitive selection of candidates to replace the vacant position of Director of the State Alcohol and Helicopter Industry of Ukrispirt. Olega Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the provision of a second line of 70 apartment buildings on the streets of Industrial, 7, in the city of Příluka Chernigiv district for participants in the ATO. Olega Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-application of measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the provision of constitutional rights for citizens in the payment of salaries to employees of the budget institutions of the city of Pritika of Chernigiv Region. Again. Roman Semenha to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets in the field of protection of the rights of consumers of financial services – members of the Non-Friendly Society Open Non-State Pension Fund "First National Open Pension Fund". Roman Semenha to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the rapid and impartial investigation of criminal conduct in the event of the destruction and appropriation of budgetary resources by officials of the Balkan District State Administration and the Administration (Department) of the capital construction of the Kharkiv District State Administration. Vladimir Ariev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to introduce walking points on the Ukrainian-Polish and Ukrainian-Slovak borders. Igor Mosiyczuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the legality of the Society's activities with limited responsibility for Synthezprostvis. Oleg Kulinić to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper performance of the post of deputy head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources in the province of Poltava, Volodymyr Zajchenk. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the allocation of drilling funds for the exploration and operation of the Artesian well at Watershed No. 1 in the village of Rešetilvka Poltava district. Andrija Shinković to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the urgent need for the construction of the third and fourth energy clouds of the Hmeln nuclear power plant. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the negative effects of raising tariffs on electricity and gas. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for Admission to the State Property Complex of the State Enterprise Airport Berdjansk, with the aim of preventing the theft of airport property and prejudice over the possible capture and use of this strategic facility against our State in the event of continued military aggression against Ukraine. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission for changes to the regulatory base of the Securities and Stock Market Commission. Ruslan Demchak to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the activities of questionable Internet resources in Ukraine. Natalia Kraljevska to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of debt relief measures in front of employees of enterprises in the Chernobyl alienation zone. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of a mass reduction of nuclear energy workers. Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal use and alienation of the land of the Takhtaulova and Rouno research holdings of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, the restriction of their employees' right to land (pau) for the reasons of their state ownership. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of executive authorities in the enforcement of the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Road Service on the need for an objective and impartial review of the call on behalf of the members of the Jakin Gardening Society of the Odessa Comintern region for the capital repair of the road. Edward Matviyczuk and Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Ukraine on the need for an objective and impartial review of the collective appeal of members of the Hutir-Redek-1 Garden Society to enforce the legality of the investigation since 2008 and to ensure effective prosecutorial supervision. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuka, Yemen, only 6 deputies) to the Kiev City Head about access to public information. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of Dnipropetrovska ODA on the non-permission of the National Institute of "Specialized Medical and Health Part No.15 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" as a medical institution of specialized medical care for the employees of the State Enterprise. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exclusion from Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 106 on the appointment of housing subsidies is the term "incomplete information" and the elimination of the double-size rule of the over-calculated (paid) subsidy as inadequate for the poorest population. Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent rehabilitation of housing and infrastructure in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas damaged by an anti-terrorist operation. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the issue of the establishment of the boundaries of coastal protection lanes of water objects and the acceptance of project documentation. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the property and housing rights of minors of Vergun and their disabled mother. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Purification of Power. Alexander Suprunenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the examination of the inaction of the investigator of Solomon’s district office of Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev. Alexander Xenjuk and Dmitry Stryzuk, pending the interim duty of the Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to fail to carry out the State Financial Inspectorate, Ukraine, have ruled that Vladimir Krupa will be reinstated as Head of the State Financial Inspectorate in the Hmělnické region. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Human Rights of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Commission, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the head of the KMDA, the deputy deputy of the Kiev City Head, the Secretary of the Kiev City Council for the use of response measures for the collection of payments for heat supplies for residents of the capital, and the installation of heat energy counters in all the housing buildings of Kiev. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, deputy of the Kiev City Head for information on the possible construction of a residential building on Kyoto Street, 3 in the right - hand district of Kiev. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for ensuring the efficient operation of the State Enterprise, the Knife Repair Engineering Plant. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the creation of the National Research Institute for Testing and Certification of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Viennese ODA on the issue of the allocation in 2015 of funds from the state budget for the implementation of the 2006-2020 Public Water Programme of Ukraine for the completion of the work on the project "The Water Supply System of the Souvrovska Voivodeship of the city of Tulkin – Construction". John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the solution of the issue of the allocation of funds and the completion of the construction of the Zvezdivska High School of Education, I-III, and the Chargord Children's and Youth Sports School. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exemption from tax on the added value of transactions in the provision of baby food and baby products. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation in the field of taxation of medical supplies. Wait a second. Roberta Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Association Agreement. Paul Rizanenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the use of measures to relieve him of his post as Deputy Chief of State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine in the Kyiv region for violating the oath of a civil servant. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of being appointed to managerial positions in the public administrations of previously convicted persons or persons for whom criminal cases are currently being tried by the courts. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory state of the road of the regional importance of the City of Starokostantins with the crashed areas of Sarna-Dubrovica-Grodishte. Gregory Times to the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the ENERGY ENERGY COMPANY "JERNIEBLENERGO" on the elimination of power shortages for consumers – residents of the village of Slobydka in the region of Czernovetsec. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to continue financing the work from the capital repair of the road of national importance T-26-01 Chernivci-Vashkovci-Putila-KPT "Russka". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of ensuring local budgets with expenditure on the maintenance of budgetary institutions. Paul Djublik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of an examination of the irresponsible and criminal decisions of the National Bank of Ukraine to the investors of the Public Shareholders Association "The Commercial Bank of Nadra". Victor Krivenk, head of Dnipropetrov's ODA for the construction of a pet farm for the development of a hole in the area reserved for the next observation of sites of the ecological network of the National Natural Park of Orilski. Alexander Onishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State's State Agency for Damage to the State, in particular the State-owned enterprise UkradtransNaftoproduct, for the illegal implementation of oil products for a sum of one and a half billion dollars through the Company with limited responsibility for the Ukrail Product and the State Enterprise Oil Supply Company. Jury of Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for funding from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015 to complete construction of the underwater pipeline Overland Lanchin in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the State's targeted social programme to overcome and prevent poverty until 2015. Oleg Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on overcoming corruption in the construction sector, providing ATO soldiers with apartments in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Oleg Petrenko to the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the application of the State Fiscal Service Regulations on local taxes in the territory of Cherkasa. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil State Administration for the allocation of funds for the execution of work from the liquidation of the disaster and the preservation of cultural heritage monuments on the balance sheet of the Ternopil Castle National Reserve in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Ternopil Regional Public Administration for the inclusion of a capital project in the list of projects that will receive a grant from the State budget in 2015 for the implementation of investment programmes and projects from the State Regional Development Fund. Twelve o'clock, and we're done reading the queries.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there are now 214 national deputies in the room, that means that we will not be able to make decisions effectively. And given that you and I worked hard enough yesterday to pass the laws that are important enough, I suggest we move on to the Different. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there much left? Dear colleagues, the hour, please sign up for the Vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I warmly welcome you, on behalf of the Radical Party faction, on behalf of the Parliamentary Coalition, to the upcoming Easter celebrations. These festivals, when Jesus Christ suffered for us in these days, when Jesus Christ will be resurrected on Sunday, when we meet these light festivals, is a reason to stop, to think about our lives, how we have lived this year, what we have done good, what we have done bad. This is certainly a reason to help those who are in need, those who suffer, children who are orphans, disabled, pensioners, veterans, protectors of our homeland. And so I am addressing all Ukrainian citizens who have the opportunity to help their neighbor. Remember, people need to be treated the way they want to be treated. Life is too cruel, life is too unfair, and these great festivals must be used in order to be able to do good. I've been working in this Supreme Council Hall for a long time, and I've seen a lot of things under this dome. The concentration of negativity, the concentration of hatred under the folds of this historic building, sometimes deplores. But what makes me happy? We finally have a real Ukrainian Parliament. Different political forces, different approaches, different positions, but most of the Ukrainian Parliament unites -- it's love for Ukraine, it's desire, really, to change our country. Let's take yesterday's, no exaggeration, historic day. The decommunization of the country, the decommunization, the recognition of heroes, at last, those who actually had guns in their hands were protecting the country in the last century, who were choosing the independence of our country. One and another of the key deligarchisation laws is yesterday's decision to return, in fact, to state ownership of gas distribution networks, which have been used by oligarchs for many years, to free of charge by billions, and a person in a village for 20,000 can only connect gas to the house. Earlier, we had passed a law that had returned to the real state control of the Ukrnaft, which was used by the oligarch of Cologne. So this is what people expect of us -- real reforms. But not reform for the International Monetary Fund's loans, but reforms to raise living standards, jobs, tariff cuts, price cuts, jobs, wages, prospects.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u79	Ivan Vasjunik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u80	Dear Ukrainians! This is the first time in Ukraine that we have celebrated the year of the Metropolitan Andrija Šaptický. We're doing it on a national level -- 150 years from the day he was born. The whole of Ukraine honors the memory of the great "Ukrainian Moses." All together, both the authorities and the church and the community, we must celebrate this date, this is our duty to future generations. These measures will unite Ukrainians, Poles, and Jews alike. People like Sheptic say it comes once a century. It has made the church the soul and support of the Ukrainian nation in its most difficult times, a period of war and terrible crimes against humanity. He not only saved thousands of people, he founded the basis for the identity of the Ukrainian State even when no one dreamed of an independent Ukraine. Today, we have an independent Ukraine, and we are fighting the same enemy again. As a modern weapon for our Ukrainian military, we need powerful ideological weapons. We must promote our true history, we must promote the figures of the Ukrainian nation. The enemy, like fire, fears only one mention of the Metropolitan Andrea. It was not by chance that the parliament of the previous convocation postponed the decrees to honor its memory as grandeur. Like a figure whose greatness characterizes the incorruptibility of the Ukrainian spirit. The importance and visibility of the construction of the Metropolitan Monument in Lviv cannot now be overestimated. We had long gone before, both objective and deliberate. But with God’s help today, consensus has been reached. Sadly, he can easily be disturbed at such an unforgivable time. The Communists, in particular in the past, did not allow the building of a memorial of famine in Kiev, nor did they seem to have fought the destruction of green plantings. We must be the only one, not allowing ourselves to be wronged by those for whom the bright name of the Metropolitan and our church is known, and our Ukrainian state has always been a bone in the throat. I am convinced that the first stone in the building of a monument will be laid by those who are currently fighting in the East, setting up patriotic youths. I'm done. And I want to welcome from the Lviv group, taking this opportunity, everyone with the coming holidays, to have a beautiful and happy holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u81	People's Deputy Droeuk. The guilty one, please, the People's Front, has been handed over.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u82	Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Welcome to all the upcoming light festivals! Today, the MPs' request from the People's Front political party will refer to a problem that concerns almost all the Chinese, all the inhabitants of our capital with you. The point of our parliamentary inquiry is to examine and take the necessary steps to forget the land in Kiev. Dear friends, today in Kiev, there are a large number of raids, clashes with residents and residents of the city of Kiev at illegal sites that are engulfing our city, destroying green crops that destroy social objects of medicine, education. This has to be stopped. The People's Front faction requires the Kyiv City State Administration, the National Architectural Inspection, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out a review of the illegal sites that have been granted to the inhabitants and residents of the city of Kyiv in order to establish clear facts of corruption and illegal activities of officials who have issued permits to verify the existence of all crimes on the premises, and in the event of the detection of violations, take all necessary measures to bring those responsible to justice. Stop putting up with the disgraceful landslides! Yesterday we voted with you on an effective law that passed on to the local authorities of authority regarding state architecture and building rules. Now cities, villages, district centers, the area can determine where, when, and by whom to build the respective buildings. But as long as this law is signed by the President, we now have a mess in the capital and in Ukraine. We demand that this shameful practice of illegal forgetfulness be stopped! The People's Front with the people, the People's Front is in favor of protecting the people. Glory to Ukraine! With holidays!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u83	Please, Victoria. Yes, please pass it on, I'll fix it. Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! I want to draw your attention to how the prices for chicken eggs rose before Easter. Do you know why this is happening? Because some manufacturers before each other, realizing that there will be demand for the product and for the Passover produce in general before Easter, agree and together increase prices. Do you know who is the regulator in this matter and, accordingly, who can influence this situation? Who can influence the price increases you buy in pharmacies? Who can influence and investigate real violations that lead to higher fuel prices and other products in general? This is, of course, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. This week, we voted in the Council for a bill to be published by the Antimonopoly Committee. I want to let you know what's going on around this bill right now. Today, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, through the Public Council of the Antimonopoly Committee, is trying to block the passage of the bill. In particular, today will be the second hour of a public council meeting initiated by the Antimonopoly Committee, which will try to explain why the publication of the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee is harmful. Of course, this is not good for the committee staff. Of course, it is uncompromising to show what the government authorities in the Antimonopoly Committee are actually doing. Why is it that millions of fines are imposed on someone and when the owners are invited to worship the committee, these fines are reduced to 10,000 dollars. If we publish these decisions, it will not be hidden in the shadows. So far, I've got an editorial that's actually being drafted by the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine, and they want to apply to Parliament through the People's Deputies. This publication calls for the repeal of almost all the provisions of the bill that the Supreme Council has voted today, and it completely undermines the idea of publishing decisions. Let's go with you and see who these national MPs are who will register these shameful changes to the bill that has been voted on and draw conclusions with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u85	National MP Parasuk Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u86	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank Dmitri Dobrodomov for giving his word. And using the moment, I want to welcome everyone to the Easter celebrations. I am convinced that the Lord God will bring a victory on our earth, and we will have peace. Now for what it hurts. For the second week, we cannot vote to send requests to the President of Ukraine. I would very much ask the faction leaders to talk to their party leaders by faction and just warn them if they like what is not being investigated, and I don't understand the nonsense that is, look at what paradox. We have people in the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the January 16 laws. They are the heroes of Ukraine. And the Celestial 100 are heroes of Ukraine. Is it not shameful that in Ukraine we have placed these people on the same level? So I ask you very much, it will be Friday, and the next plenary session will read again the requests for the name of the President of Ukraine, the request for everyone to be. I want to say a few more words on the TSC. I don't understand why the Law Enforcement Committee has been commissioned to investigate the question of Gordon, in principle it's just the competence of the Anti-Corruption Committee, but I hope it will. I would like to urge all the national deputies to join in this work. And I'm convinced that we're going to make a difference because that's what society requires. All with the holidays. All of you have the best and the best of the Passover. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u87	Please, National Deputy, Peter Prashenko Block, Musei Oleg Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, I would like to address you with the possibility that you may somehow have an impact on the neglect of Parliament for the fifth time in a row by Prime Minister Yatzenuk. I think it's unacceptable absolutely from the point of view of morality or ethics or his work. We chose him by votes, a huge number of votes, and he for the fifth time ignores the arrival of the Ukrainian Parliament. Perhaps you can influence him. Please make a personal request from me and from all the national MPs who support this idea. Now, about what hurts, as my previous colleague spoke. The health care system and what is happening today are of great concern to the Health Committee. We looked at the committee last night, listening, more specifically, to the minister with what would happen, and what our reform would be like in the health system. It turns out that there is no legal document to date and there is no work at the Ministry of Health on long - awaited reform. And it turns out that a strategic advisory group was formed, and then a central audit group was formed. Then 25 advisory committees were formed. But the bottom line is, unfortunately, it's too big a zero. We hear from the TV screens when the Prime Minister reports, tells the journalists beautifully, and more specifically, he's lying to the Ukrainian people because we're getting reformed. So I want to say absolutely correct. The only reform proposed during this year, which took place, was a reform of local self - government that was adopted by the government and submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council. After that, the government was not adopted until today in any field, no concept, and no program of action. This patching of the scrolls, which appears to be a form of reform, and in fact, the tightening of the traps from which the Ukrainian people are tired, is also unacceptable. That is why we are awaiting, and I think this MP should support, mandatory, serious, thorough report to the Prime Minister's Parliament on reforms. Including the report by the minister of health, Mr. Kvetashvili, on how the health system will change. What has now been done in four months by the Ministry of Health has been of great concern to the entire medical community. It turns out that the health system is being prepared for full privatization, which is absolutely unacceptable. It turns out that the Ministry of Health wants to eliminate it. I think it's also unacceptable. And in the end, I want to say hello to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u89	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u90	The Ukrainian people with our great festival, one of the greatest festivals, of course. To wish everyone a merry holiday and to believe in the bright future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u91	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. I'd like to inform you of the following. On February 18, 2015, a very large problem was created by the Cabinet of Ministers in the Donetsk Region, when real settlements under the Ukrainian flag were introduced in the list of settlements that were temporarily uncontrolled or not fully controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. That's what that led to. One day all the social benefits were stopped. And I would like to inform you that, thanks to the very active position of the Donetsk district organization "Peter Prashenko" and the national deputies of Dmitri Lubinz and Maxim Efimov, and thanks to efforts, we were finally able to put, at one table, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Policy, on Wednesday at the Kabmin meeting, almost unanimously voted that changes in this list would be made. And now, essentially, the question. What led to this situation? We need to pay all the social payments to the displaced people in order to get paid, and this is a 128-year policy. People who say they went out because they can't live there, it's not under Ukrainian control. But, I'm sorry, those who stayed were completely unpaid. What we were able to do on Wednesday. At present, instead of two concepts, occupied territory and under Ukrainian control, three concepts have been introduced. First. This is the territory that's occupied. The other one. The territory under Ukrainian control. And the area along the collision line. I think it's also going to be interesting to my colleagues. Because if you are approached by voters, that is, we have this term, the territory that is on the collision line. Thus, the occupied territory will be entitled to social benefits. Of course, social benefits cannot be made because they cannot be done there, it is dangerous to do so. A territory that is under Ukrainian control, of course, will not be eligible. And the area of collision, I'm drawing your attention, and the settlers can get their social benefits, and the people who are directly at these locations can get all the social benefits. Thus, the solved question that could really lead to serious social upheaval. Because we don't even get dozens anymore, we get hundreds of references about how we live under the Ukrainian flag and we don't get social benefits. And in addition, of course, I wanted to congratulate all my colleagues, the entire Ukrainian people with festivals. And I want to say that the main thing about these holidays is that we have to be better every day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, one of the most pressing problems in the country is unemployment. Nearly 2 million unemployed. I think everyone understands this problem because everyone faces it. But not everyone understands how to solve it. The position of the Radical Party on this issue is very principled and consistent. We're absolutely confident that we should be implementing a large-scale temporary employment programme today. Today we have to start economic reforms that will allow us in all sectors of the economy to move from exporting raw materials to producing finished products with high added value. Only such an economic model can ensure the well-being of Ukrainian citizens. Look at what's happening in every field. We export grain, not flour. We're exporting metal scraps, not ready machines and metal products. We're exporting roundwoods, not furniture, not paper or pellets. This has to be stopped. We have to move from a raw model of the economy to a finished production. Yesterday the Supreme Council took a historic, no exaggeration, step for the woodworking sector. You know, we've come to a ban on 10 years of exports of unprocessed forest, roundwood. This means tens of thousands of new jobs in Ukraine. This means investing in hundreds of millions of dollars, that's over a billion dollars of export revenue into the government budget. And this is the price stability, this is the stability of the bracelet, this is the opportunity for Ukrainians to live in their own country. So we should do the same in all other fields. We have to put in place powerful investment incentives to invest in Ukraine, to build, not only rebuild, but build new productions, because they are jobs. Only workplaces pay taxes. Only taxes are able to form a budget so that we don't go beggarly across Europe and the world for those IMF loans, but that we live from our own economy, that it works properly and that people have a decent salary and a pension. We need to get rid of that energy storm that we have from the Russian Federation. That's why I'm stressing quiet. The package of laws adopted yesterday and initiated by the Radical Party is 1313, 1409. And we are grateful to all coalition colleagues who joined the sponsors for supporting these bills. It's a real waste of energy dependence on Russia, step by step. To reduce energy consumption by one billion cubic meters per year is a colossal achievement that will be made over several years, and that's a real reason to lower tariffs. So, dear colleagues, we need a new economic policy, we need the support of a national producer, we need the protection of a national producer, we need the creation of conditions for investment capital not to be speculative in Ukraine. And the investment capital. Only through your own jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u95	Ten seconds, finish up, Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u96	Restore the country. This is the kind of policy that the Radical Party will stand for, and we invite all economic patriots, of all the factions of the coalition, to support the laws that we passed yesterday and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u97	Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u98	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today's Passion Friday, and the entire Orthodox world of the Eastern ritual, awaiting the greatest festival of Christian – Easter. Which is the triumph of life over death, the triumph of light over darkness, the triumph of good over evil. And certainly Ukraine is waiting for our just victory over the aggressor, over the enemy-occupier who came to the Ukrainian land of the Kremlin, from Moscow, to kill to steal. But we also expect, along with our just victory and the release of all the Ukrainians who are now in exile in Moscow. And among these captives are our fellow Ukrainian national MP and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from Ukraine Nadia Savchenko. I would like to say in this connection that the Fatherland faction, along with our colleagues from other factions that join the parliamentary coalition, has made two important draft regulations. The first draft of Decree No. 2571 refers to the execution of Putini’s obligations to all prisoners of war. And the execution of this important item will allow Nadia Saucenko to be released. And we demand that it be included in the lists for the exchange of prisoners of war. But there is another very important draft decree that the Supreme Council should adopt in the near future parliamentary week: this is a draft decree on the application of personal sanctions to all persons involved in the kidnapping, smuggling to the Russian Federation and imprisonment in Russia of Nadia Savchenko. This is the so - called Savechenko list, headed by Putin, and then followed by all his servants, including judges, prosecutors, investigators, all those who maraud, abuse Nadia Saucenko, and illegally keep her in captivity. Our civic duty is to release Nadia Savchenko, and to have her place here in the Ukrainian Parliament, and to uphold the rights of all military personnel, to defend the rights and freedoms of citizens, working as a national deputy and a member of Ukraine at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Well, really, I'm really sorry that we've got an almost empty hall again at 12 and 29 minutes, and I'm supposed to be speaking almost in front of the empty hall. Unfortunately, it is totally unacceptable that at 12 o’clock 29 minutes the MPs are breaking up, finishing their workday. Correct me, if I'm wrong, I think I see exactly four colleagues from the People's Front. I'm asking you to listen because it's very important. Well, first of all, colleagues, I'm asking you to consider this my official request, another one, to Mr. Demchikin, who told us today publicly that any contracts he signed or state-owned enterprises signed with the Russian Federation on the supply of electricity, gas and other contracts can be obtained both by national deputies and by simply writing a request. I quote him, he said it was "a simple and understandable procedure." So, by this simple and clear procedure, as the February 12 national MP, I can't get any answers from the Ministry and I can't get any contracts. On February 12th of this year, as a national deputy, I wrote a letter and an official request to Mr. Demchikin regarding the urgent granting of me the text of a contract dated 29.12.2014 between the State-owned company Ukriinterneria and the company Inter RAO regarding the conditions for the supply of electricity in Ukraine, where it was disgracefully noted, as you remember, the Crimean Federal District of the Russian Federation. What Mr. Demchisin said to me with a great deal of lateness that he doesn't own this information is only owned by the state-owned Ukriinter energy company. When I sent my request to UKR, I also received an answer from him that all copies and all the original contracts were transferred to the Attorney General's Office. They don't have any other copies, no scanned versions or any other material at all, so they can't give me any copies or scanned versions of those contracts as a national deputy, or the originals of those contracts, and they can't give me the right to know about those contracts. So I'm sorry, but you don't have to lie, Mr. Demchikin, about what's simple and understandable. Even as a national MP, I can't have more than two months from you to get your basic knowledge of the documents that regulate our state's highest relations. That's the first one. It's different. We all know what a tough week this has been for the Supreme Council. This Passionous Week was, unfortunately, filled with unworthy events, when any request by the deputies to control the government's activities, control and publish the composition of new tariffs, they were exposed to an entirely frank accusation of treason, in some side of the Kremlin, and so forth. And I want to make it public here that unfortunately, dear colleagues, no one believes in the call for a moratorium on criticism of power and a moratorium on verification. The only thing that can't be done during the war is probably to continue cynically lying and to continue cynically covering those who continue to spend millions and billions of dollars under corrupt schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u101	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u102	That's why I'm still asking my fellow national MPs to agree to create TSCs and to have checks, because that's what we came to Parliament for. We have the right to control the government, and we will have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u103	Sergey Mikolaiovich, please. Please turn on the microphone, Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u104	Dear Ukrainian people! At least this week, here in Parliament, at least in our country, was definitely passionate. There were great bright moments, great dark moments. The bright moments are clearly that we have managed to give at least a fraction of that huge debt to our heroic ancestors. We have recognized the UPA, we have placed Lenin’s monuments outside the law, and I hope that soon there will be no memorials for this veteran in our country. We've done a lot of very good things, from a historical point of view, things. But there were also dark moments, there were colossal scandals that occurred in an absolutely equal place, in a totally working and normal situation for our country where corruption was being accused, and unfortunately there was an extremely inadequate response. What is Russia that attacked us? We are now saying that we are at war with an aggressor who attacked us, but the closest synonym to Russia is the word of corruption. Russia is corruption, someone against it, say it? We need to understand the causal link, Russia has attacked us destroyed, crushed, disfigured by corruption itself, our internal corruption. We were caught in the moment when we were completely destroyed by corrupters, because of corruption, we have external aggression. And it is through overcoming internal corruption that we can defend ourselves against our external enemy. So when we feel that he's stealing, we hear back, and that's Moscow's hand. When we say that utility tariffs have a corrupt component, we hear what? What you're saying with Moscow's mouth. It is entirely logical, to put it mildly, to the contrary. Dear friends, this week in breach of the Rules, the establishment of the TSC has been blocked from investigating major corruption crimes in large state enterprises. Crazy opposing. In spite of the committee’s decision, there was now some kind of, unknown working group. Well, well, we'll work even within this task force. We won't back down! As a country, we may have nearly crossed the threshold of death. But just as Christ, like our God, I am sure we will be resurrected, we will return to this world in glory and power. The Resurrection God — Ukraine Will Be Resurrected! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u105	Silantiev Denis Olegovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u106	Dennis Silantiev, Oleg Láschka Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the Government's next initiative on the health of the nation. Today we are finally destroying what is left of the nation's health. They began with children's sports: the abolition of land payments, physical and sports property benefits, the abolition of funding for the nation's recovery, the reduction of funding for children's sports. Then we reached schools: reducing the number of physical lessons in schools. They have now reached higher education institutions. Today, we see a direct violation of Ukrainian legislation that defines the area of physical culture and sport as a priority for the humanitarian policy of the State, namely, the standards of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which gives autonomy to higher education institutions in the definition of educational disciplines. Thus, physical education in higher education will be conducted as an optional course, i.e. without final control and inclusion in the curriculum. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the best international experience of America, France, Canada and other countries demonstrates, to say the least, the unprofessional nature of such a decision. In these countries, physical culture and sports are given special attention because they understand that intellectual development cannot replace physical health. We have politics, as usual, double standards: the paper is good. Article of the Law “On Physical Culture and Sport”, which stipulates that the heads of educational institutions are obliged to ensure an enabling environment for the necessary mobile activity of students, and in fact the Minister of Education and Science is doing everything possible to ensure that our children are complemented by a number of health ministries of care. To date in Ukraine, we have 2 million drug addicts, 9 million smokers, and European records on adolescent alcoholism, AIDS and cancer. Just a minute. We have less than 1 per cent of schoolchildren with a high standard of physical health, less than 1 per cent. I don't know, maybe for someone it'll be dry figures and statistics, but for me it'll be the lives and fate of our children. From myself and from the Radical Party faction, I appeal to the authors of the initiative, how are we going to ensure the country's defence capacity? Until when will the ruins of stadiums, swimming pools, sports facilities all over the country grace our cities as monuments to the glory of the sporting achievements of the Soviet era? I request that today's statement be considered an official parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, requiring that the physical education system be kept under personal control.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u107	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u108	and thank you for the activities undertaken on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u109	Osuhovsky gives the floor, Deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, brothers and sisters of Ukraine! Taking advantage of the opportunity, I would like to focus. What? Ah, Yuri Bublik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 145th constituency, Poltavščina. Many complaints about the government were made here today. Unfortunately, Arsenius Petrovich does not attend a government meeting. Last week, when he traveled around his constituency — the Poltava suburban district of Kotelevsk, rural region — he had to hear many complaints from the villagers, his constituents, the government address, and directly to Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk. Of course, it would be rude to hear the complaints I heard from people at the government’s address from this rostrum. If Arsenius Petrovich were to attend a government meeting, this could be said to him in a personal conversation. But in any case, the tariffs that go up to housing services, people are very concerned about them, because they don't own the situation at all. In addition, the government's administrative-territorial reform is one of the most disturbing of Ukrainians in Poland. When people learn that their rural councils are being eliminated, they do not understand how this reform will improve the quality of administrative services for peasants. Of course, the government committed a crime. Anyway, it's an unconstitutional position when the rural budgets took their income, especially the income tax of individuals. Today, when rural budgets are poor, the authorities say they are not self-sufficient, they are wasteful, so they all need to be eliminated and driven to one large territorial community. From this rostrum, we would like to turn to the government (hopefully watching the activities of the Supreme Council), which first, when the two poor unite, they will not become richer than that. For one thing, local governments need to give authority, pay proper taxes, leave the right to manage land not only within a populated area, but also outside a populated area; leave the percentage of nadro to local budgets, from oil and gas, which is rich in Poltavščina. And only when the budgets are self - sufficient will the communities be rich will they decide for themselves whether they should be united or not. So a big request is not to do experiments in the Ukrainian village. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u111	She gives the floor to the MP Rudik. Please go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u112	Good day to you all, my distinguished colleagues, who, despite the absence of an absolute majority of the people's deputies, remain in the hall and think about meeting their responsibilities to the electorate. Today I would like to thank, first of all, Alexander the Companion, who allowed me to speak for myself. Today is not my day, as it turns out. When a certain number of government representatives came and there was an empty place that I didn't even want to talk about, I tried twice as a major MP and a non-factionist tried to get a word, but twice something went wrong with me: when I was 87, the second time I was 47. I thought I might not be able to say from the rostrum what I was thinking about today's composition of government, but, you see, Alexander gave me this chance. What would I ask the three government representatives who spoke from the rostrum today? Today, as you recall, the leader of NCRE, Mr. Wolfe, spoke before the Supreme Council the day before, with a large number of people chanting: Get the Wolf. Or a wolf. Minister Demchishin spoke today. And today, Minister Rosenko spoke. I'd like to ask Rosenka some simple questions. You're saying, Mr. Secretary, that the local authorities, when people ask for subsidies, only have to write a statement and everything -- everything is resolved automatically. And every person knows in my election district of Smilyan, that a leaf, where it says, what hour a person comes in for a grant consultation, has to bring 10 sheets of paper, 2 balloon pens, well, and then some nuances come up with this question. What is it, not corruption? I realize that in the background of 7 billion and 6 billion dollars, 2 balloon pens and 10 sheets of paper is like a nursery. But if we haven't been able to find 226 votes for the TSC in the Supreme Council Hall, even though we know that less votes were enough, because 7 billion and 6 billion are not the funds. Of course, it doesn't look solid, but it hurts for people. I'd like to ask the same NCRE manager. Why, back in October, for "Smilla Energoinvest," is this essentially a monopoly that gives heat and heat to the homes of the bold, set a tariff of 14 bracelets, while in Ivano-Frankiv, in Lviv, it was not more than 6-7, in some cases 8 bracelets? I wrote the request, I got the answer. It's okay, it's a reasonable tariff. When you go to the minister of education, you ask, "What are you taking school from the village of Dumanci to the village of Cranjavka?" There's no school bus there, because the local authorities don't have the money for it. You don't get an answer. This is a huge problem of today’s government. Reforms, of course, are necessary for our nation, everyone understands that. But people have to explain the logic, not all the negatives and problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u113	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u114	And taking advantage of the opportunity, the honourable, despite all this, honourable voters, with the feast of you! Win over all these officials in places with your good mood, your well - being, even though our consumer basket has decreased by 50 percent in a year. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u115	Kosheyeva gives the word Igor Mosiychuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u116	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! In difficult times of war with an external enemy, we must first pay attention to the defeat of an inner enemy that prevents us from winning on the outer fronts. It's an oligarhat. Oleg Laska’s radical party is in a position to fight the oligarhat. All those who monitor the activities of the Radical Party faction in Parliament see, firstly, a party with great difficulties, but still run counter to the law that brought back the Ukrnaft government of the oligar of Cologne. There was another vote yesterday when, with the help of coalition colleagues, we were able to return to the government virtually all the fakes that were controlled by another oligarchus Firtas. This refuted the myth of the influence of an oligarchic group on our political power. In addition, the party is clearly in position to work with people, to work in places. For example, in charge of Poltavščina, I would like to point out and raise a number of problems from this rostrum. The Orgitsky district of Poltava region: This week, when there were colds, kindergartens and even maternity homes were opened. I had to intervene in person. In Lubna, corruption has penetrated the city completely with a mesquikon. I had to go to the Attorney General's Office. Just as land taxes are not taxed, because the land belongs to the city's deputy head, and the city's head is responsible for the collection of these taxes. It's not just cases, it's a system. And Oleg Light's Radical Party is working on breaking this system. Breaking up the criminal system in law enforcement, in the courts. And yesterday was, indeed, a clean Thursday. When we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u117	Please let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u118	Not only do we get to resist the entry into force of the Procurator's Act, but we also reject the gang of judges who gathered here, who judged the courtmen, tried the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u119	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u120	To restore social and national justice. With your festivals, the honourable Ukrainians, with the coming Easter, you have won the best of all!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u121	Thank you. Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovich, faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u122	Matkovsky Bogdan, 121 constituency. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Let me welcome everyone to the upcoming Easter. And I especially want to welcome our boys who are standing on the front and who, at this time, when we're celebrating here, will protect us. I would especially like to thank the volunteers who are going to visit our boys on Easter, bring the Passover, and bring this Easter spark to the front. We would also like to inform the Committee on Economic Policy on Wednesday's vote in favour of Bill 1567. This is the removal of the ban on the privatization of public objects. At the committee meeting, seven members of the committee voted in favour of the bill, and seven members of the committee abstained. And there's no callback procedure, either in favour, or there's no callback procedure. So I'd like to make this decision as not supported by the committee to the Supreme Council, and I think that the national electorate will be determined about the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u123	Thank you. I was asked by Heraszczenko to pass on the word to the deputy of Krivoshei. How about from the rostrum? Is it from the place? Out of the way. Please turn on the Krivoshi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u124	Good afternoon, dear friends! Gennady Kryvoshea, Ukrainian national deputy I would like to address the law enforcement agencies with this question. Three weeks ago, MPs from the People's Front faction sent a parliamentary request to the Antimonopoly Committee, the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities, as well as to the Kiev City Head regarding the trust of apartment appliances in cold, hot water and pays for it in Kiev. I want to inform all of Ukraine, the people of Kiev, that it has been three weeks now, that no response has been received from the People's Front faction, no calls have been received. I would like to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council and focus on the fact that this situation is being created with other requests from our colleagues. Dear friends! That can't be the case. It's not just neglecting our thoughts, it's ignoring the problem that exists in Ukraine right now. Such officials who sit in their seats cannot do or answer parliamentary requests. At the same time, I would like to refer to the question that was raised and to report that we have again prepared another request concerning public information and access to public information by the Kyiv City State Administration. It was not in vain for me to start by saying that the Kyiv City State Administration had not answered our request. So, understanding this situation, we've prepared an appropriate request and we're asking the Kyiv City State Administration, as well as the Kyiv City Council to provide information on the implementation of article 50, section 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, in part of the publication of the draft decisions of the Kiev City Council. Today, the Chinese do not see all the decisions. And the most daring decisions regarding illegal land collection, sales of municipal property, these decisions are hidden. Next. We ask for information on the implementation of part sixteen of article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, on the implementation of article 50, part five, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in the publicization of decisions of the Kiev City Council. And we also require information on the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Order No.3 of 2002 04.01 on how to publish online information on organ activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u125	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u126	We ask the Kyiv City Council and the Kyiv City State Administration to give appropriate answers. I'm asking you to consider this a parliamentary request. I'll pass it on to the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u127	Thank you. I just missed it. Martovitch handed the word to Paul, and I have an appropriate statement. And I ask for Paul’s word. Lensky passed it on to Jehora Sobolev. And that's why Egor Sobolev will be next. And that's why Egor Sobolev will be next. And I think it's going to be a logical conclusion and a positive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u128	Constantine Pavlov, 31st Majority District. The city of Curve Horn. Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! You've been elected by the people, but you don't want to see the reality of the Ukrainians today, that you don't go to your constituencies or when you get there, you sit behind a high ban. Otherwise, it is difficult to explain the position and not to include in the agenda the bills introduced by the Opposition Unit. I've met hundreds of people at my house in Curve Horn. As you know, not the poorest city in Ukraine, the average wage is 25 per cent higher than the national average. But not only is it that people don't know how to move on, but they don't even know how to survive. First of all, we must protect those who, in fact, remind you, stand and then rebuild our country, are veterans. We demand to return to the veterans of the Great Homeland War all the apprehensive benefits imposed by the Government of restrictions, violate the Constitution of Ukraine and ignore the numerous decisions of the Constitutional Court prohibiting the narrowing of social rights and guarantees of veterans. Plus, it's a critical drug situation. The Government has cut down on a successful project to reduce the cost of medicines from hypertension, and this project has provided an opportunity to improve health for 12 million patients with hypertension, 9 out of 10 veterans. In January 2015, compared to January 2014, the consumption of natural medicines dropped by 20 percent, which suddenly all of us stopped? Nope. People just can't buy drugs, so they're doomed to a slow death. And this is in the twenty-first century before the celebration of the seventy-first great victory in the Great Homeland War. Second. We demand the immediate adoption of the draft law on the establishment of ad hoc trade allowances for individual groups of goods. In fact, it is a measure to curb rising prices of products, medicines, and so forth. Simple example: prices for domestic vegetables and fruits increased by 30-50 per cent year-on-year and imports by 100-150; dairy products by 30-40 per cent; grains, sugar by 20 to 100. I would like to draw your attention, my fellow Members, that the implementation of the bill does not require additional budget costs, to limit the trade price of 15 per cent to products on which life and human beings depend, basic products, all types of fuel, including for heating housing, nutrition and medicines. We also demand that tariffs be banned and that the previous tariffs be refunded as at 1 January 2014. It is also necessary to raise the subsistence minimum to the actual minimum of subsistence, taking into account the January 2015 prices. We demand the abolition of the inhumane 15 per cent tax on pensions of veterans, Chernobyls, disabled persons, miners and miners and chemists. Bills from the social package should be considered and adopted on the issue of the basic survival of millions of people. And believe me, if you don't want to listen to our proposals today, tomorrow you'll hear hundreds of people at home and then the voice of millions of Ukrainians we're trying to bring to you today under the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u129	For the final word, Jegor Soboljev is invited to the rostrum. Let's say hello, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u130	My colleagues, I actually have a very bad thing to talk about. Next week, we need all the parliament that is in favour of Ukraine and all of society to respond to one very important challenge. We have the Constitutional Court, it's by name, but not by fact. Of the 17 judges there, 12 are Yanukovich's people. In addition, 7 are those who gave him dictatorial powers in 2010. In this Constitutional Court, which is still under Janukovič’s control, the following week is a very important task from Sergey Ljovczyn. They're going to cancel the Ukrainian Book of Illustration Act. You remember with what great effort society, with the help of representatives, its representatives in this room, carried out this law. He is deeply sabotaged, the most unloving law for all civil servants throughout the country. But thanks to this law, only half a thousand high-ranking prosecutors, police chiefs, directors of the Fiscal Service, other leaders have already been released from office with a ban on returning, another half a dozen have moved to lower posts, or have been relieved of government authority in general, hoping that their associates in the Constitutional Court will repeal this law. Ljovczyn’s group had a plan. They wanted to do it with the hands of the Venice Commission. You remember that in the winter, the Venice Commission declared that the Ukrainian illustration was antihuman and violated European rights. When we met them, it became clear that this was the opinion made by the representative of Ukraine on the Venice Commission, Mr. Sergey Kiwalov. When we started telling them what was really going on when we invited them to Ukraine, when they went to Medjugorje, the opinion of the experts of the Venice Commission began to change rapidly. Realizing this, the people of Yanukovich, led by the same Ljovczkin, are going to do their work through their Constitutional Court. On April 16, next Thursday, we ask all parliamentarians, we ask all Ukrainian citizens to come to the Constitutional Court and show that Ukraine will not allow the cleansing of its power to stop. Thank you and we'll do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have promised to finish reading the queries that came into the Presidency, there are 10 pages, it will take about 8-9 minutes. And that's why I'm proposing before we finish our work. No, the performances are over. The rules are exhausted, I'm sorry, and we are working under the Rules under the repeated requirement of deputies. And so I'm asking you to adjust to a constructive job, and I'm continuing to read the queries. Olesia Long to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the issue of financing the construction of the capital repair of the accident house No24 on Primorska Street in Svetłovodsk. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer to the territorial community of the village of Lisovo, part of the land of military town No.25. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the settlement of the debt payable for housing is purchased for the implementation of the program "The Housing of International Soldiers". Jaroslava Dubnević is under the temporary responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the arrival of excise taxes in the first quarter of 2015. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the improper state of road cover and pedestrian parts of the road in the Darnicki district of Kyiv. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to return pensions to working scientific and teaching staff in higher education institutions. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for the return of Star Stadium to the city of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the operation of the railway movement and the reconstruction of the bridge in the city of Bila Cerkva. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the number of additional electric trains in the direction of the city of Bila Church. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of co-workers of internal affairs and prosecutors. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the co-workers of the prosecutor's offices and internal affairs. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of maternity and maternity benefits to persons who have worked and continue to be in employment relations with enterprises registered in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions temporarily not controlled by Ukraine. Sergey Kaplina to the Attorney General of Ukraine for carrying out objective tests for the appeals of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, for the illegal implementation of oil products by companies related to oil processing, transport and trade in petroleum products. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal capture and self-destruction of the coastal protection strip of the water object "Zdrožnoje" in the region of Lviv. Irina Suslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is temporarily acting as head of the State Fiscal Service, of Ukraine, to ensure that criminal investigation is carried out objectively because of the fact that criminal offences are committed by officials of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ingletz Mining and Enriching Union. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the use of conservation measures and the restoration of the production of the Cherkasitorf Child Enterprise. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the impossibility of unwarranted school closing. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine on education and reducing the number of education workers. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the Ukrainian State Border Service for the assignment of Lieutenant Colonel Eugenia Picus to the military term "Colonel" (after death). Alexander Billowola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing a reduction in the number of higher education institutions. Alexander Billowola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to preserve the existing number of general educational institutions in Ukraine. Ruslan Solvar to the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Winnick district administration on violations of legislation on land administration to ATO participant Maxim Ljubinczuk. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to restore social justice on the issue of the granting of State aid to Mother Hero of Ukraine Andria Pozniak. Groups of National Deputies, Gordjeyev and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Hersson Region in investigating the theft of property of the Open Shareholder Society "Herson cotton combination". Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the non-admission of the activities of the state-owned enterprise "Specialised Agricultural Agricultural Industrial Enterprise Zdobunijskossop". Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the use of budgetary resources and the implementation of projects for targeted environmental investments in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on illegal actions committed by the teacher of Johno-Frankov Public Education School No.2 by the citizen of Boronil, aimed at overthrowing the constitutional system of Ukraine, demeaning the national dignity of Ukrainians and treason. Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the violation of the rights of foreign investors in Ukraine and the lobbying of the interests of Dmitr Firtash by the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. Groups of National Deputies (Bobovich, only 11 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal occupation of the Child Entrepreneurship of the National Shareholder Company "Blood of Ukraine", "Talinian Combine of Bread Products". Groups of National Deputies (Jurinec, Zalishtuk, only 32 deputies) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation in the airline market of Ukraine. Alexander Zholobecksky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the activities of officials and beneficiaries of the Public Shareholders Association Bank "Kievska Rus" which led to the bank being placed in the category of insolvent. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of the Commission's work to conduct a service investigation into the activities of senior officials of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the holding in the southern districts of the Odessa region of the compact residence of the national minorities of the round table on the discussion of changes concerning the territorial organization of authority in the region. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 832 of 26 July 1996 on the increase in the amount of State aid to individual categories of citizens, according to which a deplorable compensation has been established for a non-working working person who takes care of the disabled person of Group I, the amount of 80 copies per month, which is 16 copies per day. Groups of National Deputies (Dublika., only 5 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to provide a legal assessment of the actions of the City of Korostišev, Mikola Cikolaya, and the head of the Paradise family of Mikoli Nevisević, to give them signs of crime. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of response measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to significantly increase prices for urban transport in Kiev, taking into account the availability of appropriate powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the introduction of tariffs for passenger transport in Kiev to the level of their economic justification. Jury Lewchenka to the Kiev City Head on the use of urgent measures to ensure the constitutional rights of the Chinese to rest during the night, by banning the day - to - day trade in housing. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for information on the number of children from Donetsk and Lugansk regions who are assigned to the international institutions of all types of the Ministry of Education and Science system of Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to provide information on the number of internally displaced persons registered: children, disabled adults and adults whose effectiveness is limited. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of members of the Tallinn District Council to suspend the increase in energy tariffs. Denis Silantiev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the economic justification for the price of natural gas for the social, budgetary and population needs of Ukraine. That's why I finished reading the queries. There are two other messages that I have to read. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Ukraine's Energy Independence". The headquarters of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "For Ukraine's Energy Independence" have been elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic, Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailnovna. And the next announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union for Trade in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Interfractional Union for Trade has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kaplin Sergio Mikolaiovich. So we've exhausted our agenda. I want to point out that this week was difficult but very fruitful. Yesterday, my colleague, Yuri Lucenko, said that as a national MP, he did not remember a day like yesterday, the number and importance of the bills passed. And this is a very important question in national memory, this is a very important anti-corruption issue, where we've demonstrated that there's no lobby in that oligarchy room that can block any anti-corruption solution. And this is the great victory of the Supreme Council, this is the great victory of all of us. And, I'm sure, no more oligarchs in this room will have any blocking packages, and step by step we will destroy corruption in Ukraine. But we have a big day today -- it's Passion Friday, and the Ukrainians call it the Big Friday. Today we have impaled Jesus Christ, and in these days we mention his suffering and suffering. And I want to say it's a special day for the Ukrainians, because we too are being tried to crucify and tried, the Pharisees from the east, and many of our sons and daughters, the soldiers of light, have been fighting the darkness. But I am convinced, just as Christ’s resurrection and the resurrection of Ukraine did. And I welcome all the Ukrainians to that great holiday, and I support, especially those boys of ours and the girls who are on the fore. They have a beautiful Easter, a beautiful celebration and a victory! Thank you, colleagues. I remind you, next week we have work on committees, factions and groups. On Wednesday, April 15, at 10 a.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on "The prospects for the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens". And the next planning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 21, at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Nice celebrations! Thank you.
