ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u1	Dear fellow national MPs, please take our seats. We're continuing our work. Please prepare for registration. Before starting our work, starting our evening session, I would like to inform you that the regulatory committee has held its meeting on my orders, and as I was informed, it has adopted a perfectly legitimate decision on the filing procedure for drawing on the responsibility of the two national deputies. This opens the way for consideration in the sessional room. I would like to inform you as soon as I have received the decision of the committee, whose meeting took place from 14 to 16 hours, we will immediately begin with you to discuss the issue of removing the inviolability of the two national deputies according to the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I would like to thank the committee for having held their meetings and for bringing their work into line with the legislation. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to prepare for your registration. Let's register. [[16:16:24]] 335 national deputies in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, we have to deal with registration number 2852, 2852-1. Dennis's report is from Ludmila Leontievna. We considered it on Friday, but no decisions were made on it. Therefore, there is a suggestion to consider it as a simplified procedure. Let's get ready, dear fellows. There is no need, colleagues, for us to vote in favour of the reduced procedure, since it was discussed earlier. Please, three minutes for the report to Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevni, please. And then there's Yuri Suhevich, and I'll give you my word. And please, and Natalie Royal. These are the three coauthors of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, as you all remember, on March 2, we were given a mandate by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council by May 1, 2015 a project on the appointment of all pensions, including special ones, besides military officials and scientists, on general grounds. And in the event of non-admission to June 1st of the law, from June 1st all pension rules for persons to whom pensions are assigned under special laws are repealed. Indeed, on April 30, the government introduced such a bill, which envisions the introduction of a cumulative system of compulsory state pension insurance as of January 1, 2017, and the abolition of special pensions and the establishment of the only accounting principles since January 1, 2016. The committee held an urgent session on May 13, 2015. He made numerous remarks before entering the second level of the accumulation system and noted that such a system would not work and would create confidence in ordinary citizens and decided to return the project to the committee for the preparation of the completed project, along with the placement of alternative projects to submit it to the Supreme Council for re-reading. In view of the fact that it is impossible to accept the project in this way, and taking into account the proposal made by the Ministry of the Interior to abolish the special benefits of January 1, 2016, the members of the committee prepared Bill 2852 in order to enable the government to further develop the project by December 1, 2015. But our fellow national MP, Mr. Suhevich, passed Bill 2852-1, which predicts that. more stringent government deadlines for the drafting of the amended bill by 1 July 2015. During the discussion in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 May of the draft legislation, I proposed to allow the government to further develop and agree with Mr. Shuhevich's proposal by 1 July 2015. In the vote, considering that he was standing last, there were no votes. That is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support the Ministry of Social Policy's proposal to abolish special pensions on 1 January 2016, rather than to cancel on 1 June 2016. So today, indeed, with June 1, 2015, the Supreme Council has established that paragraph 5 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law of March 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u4	Retirement rules for persons assigned to pensions under 12 special laws have been repealed, with the exception of military and scientific personnel. So I don't think there's any decision on these laws today. Because the standard that was established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u5	Thank you. Please, Yuri Suhevich. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Indeed, since the March 2 law set a date for the cancellation of all privileged pensions from June 1, 2015. But after introducing his project, the government offered to introduce this. cancel article 13 with. "The End of Positions" and to move, by cancelling completely, thereby transferring to the unknown deadline for the introduction of this law. Thus, a profile committee was proposed on February 1. I passed an alternative law to speed up the pension reform by July 1. Since I did not get enough votes, the law came into force on March 2, and all the privileged pensions were abolished. I ask you now, I will withdraw my proposal on July 1st and since a new law has already entered into force. With regard to the pension law itself, the proposed alternatives to government 2767-2, which provides for the abolition of all privileged pensions, are the only accounting system. That's why I'm asking you, my lords, to consider it and to decide accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I ask your attention for just one minute so that you all, when you vote, take this decision with great responsibility and that each of you understand what you will vote for. Because there is now a pear company in the room to combat privileged special pensions. So, what do you now consider a special privilege pension? It is the pension of a local public administration worker, it is the pension of a journalist, it is the pension of academics, it is the pension of completely ordinary people, who each month spent 2 and a half percent of their working life on the Pension Fund more than any other pensioners, and for that, people were given a little bit more of it when they retire. I want to tell you that the average pension is a special pension, which is spoken here today, today in our country is 3,200 bracelets. And you want these people who are going to retire today, tomorrow and tomorrow, to take away these 3,200 bracelets and pay them a disgraceful, poverty-stricken pension in 1200 bracelets. For what? Here's what you're going to punish these perfectly simple people who have spent their entire lives paying for the increased contribution they've made to the State. We therefore propose the following decision. Please put off this radical, thoughtless, unreasonable decision, the punishment of our people for a few months. The Cabinet of Ministers will prepare the right bill. Let the people who have counted the increased contributions receive, as it were, a little but an increase in the pension. And in the meantime, you and I are obliged to index pensions, index wages. Well, you know perfectly well that for 1,200 bracelets you can't live in the country. And for 3,200 bracelets today, it is also impossible to feed your family. So instead of taking the last piece of bread today, raise the rest of the people's pensions, don't take it away, but add to the rest, and then review the law on special benefits. We ask you to cancel the entry into force on 1 June of the law on special benefits, prepare, we are ready to participate, an alternative project and only then make a informed decision. Now vote in favour of the bill to postpone the decision to abolish the special benefits from 1 June. Please, let the people live peacefully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u9	Thank you. In view of the validity of the law that was passed in March and according to which special pensions have already been abolished, starting on June 1, both bills have lost their relevance and, according to the proposals of the legislators, both bills 2852 and 2852-1 have been considered to have been revoked. Yes. Let's move on to the next question. Rereading the first reading. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of powers to military law enforcement authorities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine to carry out pre-trial investigations into criminal conduct and to carry out operational investigations. I have to report to the committee head. Is there a reporter for this bill? Yes. We'll come back later. I think the chairman of the committee is now at the meeting of the leaders of the MP factions. Yes. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning is being considered, a new edition. Rapporteur of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Madam Chairman! In view of the deputies, the Law (No. 1547) on the Organization of Defence Planning is presented. I want to start by saying that the table you've had in the last more than six months has already brought about a tremendous number of legislative changes to that system of defence planning, mobilization, strategic planning that existed. The law that you're presented with essentially is completely modernizing. Fully modernizes the existing defence planning system, linking defence planning to military doctrine, and linking it to interdisciplinary coordination. In the first reading, he was voted by us. 35 suggestions were made. 9 offers are fully accounted for, 5 counts partially. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepared for the second reading of the bill is set up without notice. Our committee unanimously supported the decision in the second reading, recommending it for adoption in the second reading and in general. Do the authors insist? Table's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u11	Dear National Deputies! Let's go back to the amendment table. I remind you, we are considering the Amendment Act before the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning. Amendments that have been rejected, please see. Amendment number four, National Deputy Captain does not insist. National MP. Amendment number six, National Deputy Captain does not insist. Amendment 7, National Deputy Lensky. The Lensky National MP insists on his amendment? No, it's not. Yes, a national MP. Amendment number 16, National Deputy Lensky does not insist. 28 Amendment, People’s Deputy Lensky does not insist. We completed our consideration of the amendments. If there is no objection, we may proceed to the vote. Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning is put to the vote. Voting in second reading and in general. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please vote on Bill 1547 amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act on second reading and in general. Please vote. [[16:32:37]] For 221 Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to focus, take your seats in the hall. We need to go back to voting for Bill No. 1547 amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act. I'm asking you to take your seats. We are voting for the return to the vote. Please. Please. [[16:33:31]] For 237 Thank you, distinguished national MPs. And now I'm voting on a second reading and in general a bill (No. 1547) amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act. Please vote in second reading and in general. [[16:34:01]] For 247 Thank you. You are considering a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to determine the composition, content and order of the documentation with the country (second reading). Please report to the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Land Relations of Kutov Taras Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, this is Bill 0904, a transitional bill registered with the Kaletnik People's Deputies. He first deals with the equalization of the land documentation situation that is needed in every area. Today, the Land Administration Act does not contain an exclusive list of types of land administration documentation and allows other laws and regulations to establish different types of documentation. And in these different types of documentation, the same questions are solved, but they're called different ones, and so each area in its own way, and the states there in their own time, they've treated everything. The bill, which included 165 proposals and amendments to the law of the legislative initiative, is proposed to take 144 into account. With regard to the rejected amendments and proposals, it is proposed to reject amendments and proposals that have largely been made in violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules and do not apply to the provisions of a bill adopted as a basis. It should also be noted that a number of proposals that have been rejected because of non-compliance with the provisions of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules have already been regulated by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Business Conditions. This is the Deregulation Act we passed, number 1918 12.02.2015. This is particularly true of Amendments 7 and 131. It is suggested that the proposals and amendments that exclude the situation of the amendments already taken into account be rejected. Specific justifications for suggestions and amendments are given in the table below. At the committee meeting, the bill was discussed on April 7, and it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u13	Thank you. People's deputies, please, take a look at the amendments. Are there any suggestions? Are national deputies insisting on their amendments, on those who have been rejected? Amendment 7, National Deputy Didic. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 24, National Deputy Kulinich. Don't you insist? 35th National MP Kulinich. Don't insist. 36th National MP Kulinich. Don't insist. The 50th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Barwinenko. Is he insisting? No, it doesn't. 53rd Deputy of the People's Republic of Kulinich. There is no insistence on any of its amendments. Similarly, national MP Barwinenko is not insisting on any of his amendments. All the other amendments were taken into account by the committee and, at the suggestion of the committee, put to the vote the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of composition, content and order of conformity of documentation with the land administration (registration number 0904). The vote will take place in a second reading and in general adopt the bill as a law. People's deputies, please take your places to vote, prepare for the vote. Draft Law 0904 amending some Ukrainian legislation to determine the composition, content and order of the documentation with the country. Please vote. [[16:39:15]] For 219 Ladies and gentlemen, we must now return, please return to the vote. We return to the vote in favour of Bill 0904 on amendments to certain acts of Ukraine concerning the determination of the composition, content and order of the documentation with the country. Please vote for the return to consideration. [[16:39:59]] For 232 We're back to the debate. Now I ask you to determine whether the second reading and the whole of Bill No. 0904 are to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the definition of composition, content and order of agreement of the documentation with the country. Please vote. [[16:40:35]] For 235 Thank you, in favour of 235, decision taken. Next question, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (with regard to the establishment of religious institutions of educational institutions), registration number 1447, second reading. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please, Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u14	Dear fellow national MPs! Today, on second reading, a bill is very important. A bill that moves us forward in civil development. Because today any organization or private person has the right to set up a school, and the religious organization does not have that right. And this is totally contrary to part three of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience of Religious Organizations, which enshrines the right of parents to raise their children according to their beliefs and attitudes towards religion. Yet, for the time being, this right is not guaranteed by law. This bill has been discussed with you in the first positive reading, and if we accept it today, we will clearly understand which churches, not because of the right people, are setting up schools on their own. It is worth reminding us that schools will only be able to establish religious organizations that are officially recognized in Ukraine. This is not allowed to be done by sects that engage in anti - government activities or use manipulative technologies. To produce educational documents, these schools need to be licensed, run a government program, and only as a complement to their educational system. A comparative table has been prepared by the Committee for second reading, with 10 amendments, including -4 and -6 rejected. Rejected amendments are amendments that completely change the concept of the bill and invalidate its basis of purpose, namely, ensuring the constitutional right of believing parents or persons who replace them to raise their children according to their own religious beliefs. The majority of the proposed amendments are intended to exclude the text of the bill voted in the first reading of the regulations. On the basis of this, we suggest that we take into account the amendments: 6, 8, 9 and 10, some of which were made after prior consultations with the Legal Department to take account of everything in this bill. Therefore, by the decision of the committee, we recommend that the Supreme Council adopt this bill as a whole, including amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u15	Thank you very much. Thus, the National MP Weselov is the author of all the unaccounted for amendments. Are you insisting on the people's representative of Wesselov?? No, it doesn't. In view of this, I propose to vote in favour of the draft Law (registration number 1477). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your places to vote. We are voting on a bill (No. 1477). On amending certain laws of Ukraine (on the establishment of religious institutions of educational institutions) in second reading and in general. Vote. Please. [[16:45:14]] For 237 Thank you. "For" is 237, the decision is taken. Dear National Deputies! You and I have discussed Bill 2852 and Bill 2852-1, and despite the fact that the legislators recommended that they be removed from consideration, according to the Rules, we cannot remove draft laws that have already been included in the agenda of the sitting. That's why the offer is like that. So that we can reject them now with you so that they don't continue to be in the order of the day session. Therefore, honourable national deputies, I ask you to concentrate. We went back to Bills 2852 and 2852-1. Subjects of the legislative initiative suggested that they be removed from consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] One of the subjects proposed. Okay. I'd like to ask you then to decide on the 2852 Bills. First 2852, then 2852-1. 2852. Draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance on the transposition of the adoption of the law on the appointment of all pensions, including special, on general grounds. The committee's proposal is to reject this bill. Please vote. The committee's proposal is to reject this bill 2852. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ms. Ludmila Denisova, head of the committee, could you please explain to the distinguished people's deputies the position, once again, of the committee of 2852 and 2852-1 in order to complete our consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, this has been the case. On May 22, when we discussed issue 2852, I proposed not to vote in favour of this issue, 2852, but to vote in favour of the 2852-1 project. That is, the cancellation of the special pensions that were adopted on March 2 to July 1st for the government to work out a bill on pension reform on the cumulative mandatory pension insurance. On May 22 we didn't have enough votes for any decision, so we were transferred to today's vote. But today, on June 2, and June 1, a law came into force that abolished all special pensions. Therefore, there is no point in voting for either or for the other or rejecting it. Or, if other MPs consider it different, well, we have to put up and determine the MPs themselves properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u17	What is the committee's proposal for both bills? So the national MPs can hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u18	The committee's proposal was to support 2852, then we're 2852-1. I think we need to make sure there are no differences, we need to put the MPs on the vote and we need to determine 2852 and 2852-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u19	Please, Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u20	Dear National Deputies! Today the problem is indeed regulated, but there is a technical problem with the fact that we have two laws to solve its fate. Neither the committee nor anyone else offered a decision to reject. And let's do it the way we do it. Let's put it to a vote to support both laws, and all my colleagues, I propose a friendly vote against it, and we will finally close the subject of special pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u21	Thank you. Then I'll bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] All the entities of the legislative initiative have already made their own proposals. Please put to the vote the draft Law, 2852, on amending the final provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance, on the transposition of the adoption of the law on the appointment of all pensions, including special, on general grounds. Please vote. [[16:51:01]] For-52 The bill is rejected. Bill No. 2852-1, amending the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine, on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance, on the transposition of the adoption of the law on the assignment of pensions, including on general grounds. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[16:51:49]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. A re-examination of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Bill (Registration No. 0919) amending certain Ukrainian Laws on Prices, Tariffs with Presidential Proposals of 4 May 2015. Rapporteur: Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u22	Dear Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleagues! On 9 April 2015, Parliament passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Establishment of Prices, Tariffs (0919), which aims at defining the limits of the powers of the National Commission, which regulates national energy, utilities and tariffs. The prescribed law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. First, the law that came to the signature is proposed to amend the Natural Gas Market Principles Act, which is four months later, i.e. since 1 October 2015, is no longer in force under the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, adopted on 9 April 2015. Secondly, structural changes are currently being made in Ukraine to reduce the budgetary deficit in the reform of the tariff system in energy and utilities with a view to phase-out of gas prices to thermal energy, which covers economic-based costs for all consumer categories by 2017, to achieve the resilience of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Thirdly, cooperation with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund has led to a number of commitments that require the establishment of economically sound tariffs in the areas of heating and housing services. As a result, the legal mechanism for compensating differences in housing and utility tariffs will not be activated. Fourthly, according to the third energy package, Ukraine should guarantee the independence of the relevant national regulator from the authorities of the State and from the interests of the energy sector, which is an important and principle specific feature of the function of regulators in the Member States of the European Union. The self-regulatory adoption of decisions by the State regulator, independently of any State body, is a guarantee of its independence, as provided by the directives of the European Parliament and the Council. Subject to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of the Ukrainian President's proposal and paragraph 7 of paragraph 4 of section 1 of the Ukrainian Act, "To amend certain Ukrainian laws concerning the setting of prices (tariffs) should be excluded. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u23	Thank you. I invite the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u24	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You are being reviewed by the President's proposal for amendments to some of Ukraine's pricing (tariff) laws. The purpose of the presidential proposal is to remove the legal gap in regulating the powers of government authorities in the pricing and tariffs part. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to give you a brief explanation of what this bill is all about. When the bill proposed by the Supreme Council was signed by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council adopted a draft law on the gas market. And in view of the differences in these two bills, the President made proposals to improve and remove these gaps in legislation that resulted from the adoption of a gas - market bill. So there's no discussion here at all. The President's proposals were unanimously supported by the committee. And I ask all factions and groups to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u25	Thank you. As you heard from the co-rapporteur, the committee heads, all the President's proposals were supported by the committee. And in view of the fact that there are no questions from the national MPs, we can vote in favour of the President's proposals, on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Prices (Traffics) with the President's proposals. Then please vote on the bill (registration number 0919) "To amend certain Ukrainian laws on price (tariff)" with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 04.05. In 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote on Bill 0919 with the President's proposals. [[16:58:19]] For 218. Ladies and gentlemen, back to your consideration. I'm asking you to focus. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and return to the consideration of Bill No. 0919: "To amend certain Ukrainian laws on price (tariff)" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 4 May 2015. About the return. Please be supportive. [[16:59:14]] For 239. Thank you. I now ask for a definition of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian laws on price (tariff) with the President's proposals of 4 May 2015 as a whole. Registration number 0919. Please vote. [[16:59:51]] For 256 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. For your consideration, honourable national deputies, a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, the first deputies of heads. ".. I'm sorry, there's no reporter for Yuri Lucenka, we'll be discussing this bill later. You are considering a draft Decision on the appointment of a candidate for a competitive commission to serve as members of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption (registration number 2922). It's an extremely important draft decision. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption by Sobolje Yegor Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, you know that we have a mission with you this year to create a National Anti-Corruption Agency. She has a very important mission: she has to publish the property declarations of all officials and check them with society. For good people who would be responsible for their duties to get there, the law provided for the recruitment of all the executives of the agency for the competition. In order for this competition to take place, we need to help form a competition commission. By law, the Supreme Council is to delegate a member there. Our Anti-Corruption Committee has asked public organizations to help Parliament and find such a worthy member of the Competition Commission. The Anti-Corruption Centre, the Reanimation Package of Reforms, Transparency International Ukraine consulted each other and identified Alexia Cloud as such. This is a public activist from Kyrovgrad who has been leading an organization for several years that specializes in the verification and disclosure of declarations, Transparency International Ukraine. We are pleased to recommend that Parliament vote in favour of this person to delegate him to a competition commission, and let them choose the real National Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u27	Thank you. Are there any questions? If there are no questions then, honourable national deputies. Then. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to write two-for, two-again. People's MP Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u28	Please give my word to my colleague, Dmitri Storobuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u29	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Storobuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u30	The People's Front political party is not going to support this candidacy today. Because we were present at the election of the public organizations there the candidate was not supported. And that's why I think this is a matter for the Coalition Council to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u31	Thank you. National MP Zholobecki, please, faction of the Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u33	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to support this candidature with many signs: Mr. Alexei Cloud is a well-known grantoid who, at State and Non-State expense, destroyed civil society in the days of Yanukovic. He was actually in all the advisory bodies that were created by Yanukovich for the so-called camouflaged development of civil society. Open and honest government purchases and the State Procurement Act, which in Yanukovic's time was the case with Mr. Cloud himself. Next. "Open government," you all know, a good idea that was supported by Yanukovich and actually turned into a "closed government." It's also one of those points that went directly to Alexia Cloud. Not enough, he's representing himself as a representative of Transparency International, but he's actually just the executive director of everything. There's a completely different head of this organization. The organization is registered in Kirovograd at a private address, in private. In a private house. I think there are big questions before such a candidate. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies not to vote. Instead, I think there's going to be a lot of people in Parliament that we can trust and that can become the face of this competitive commission. In addition, look at the latest information on this organization's website, Transparency International Ukraine. There's an invasion of government, an invasion of the Supreme Council, and Alexia's comments about what we're wrong about, sorry, we can't identify those people in any way, and these contests that have been held, they're illegal and illegal. Is he the "superintendent commander" or the "superintendent judge" of the Supreme Council? And how.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chizmar, Radical Party. Now. I'm on the list, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u36	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Similarly, our faction will not support this candidature on various grounds, because it has many comments from both the public and its previous activities, as they have already said in this room, and I will not repeat myself. Former citizen of Russia, the Russian Federation, for which we do not have today's bio-help on tables indicating when he received Ukrainian citizenship and whether he has a conviction or not. And there's a suspicion that he's got a case. So I think, for such an important position, a competitive position where all other members of anti-corruption bodies will be appointed, we cannot support it. Our faction does not support this candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u37	Thank you. May I have Tetjana Blackwall's national deputy?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u38	In fact, when you were young, Mr. Cloud was tried for home theft. [[B in m in s a l in]] But, you know, in fact, every person can start a straight path and that's called atone for his guilt. [[B in m in s a l in]] But listen to me, but Mr. Cloud, who is now offering to fight corruption, instead of atone for his guilt, has been involved in corruption in this very matter. Because he bought information about his trial from the district registry, but the information remained in the state register. Thank you. So he's a corrupter and he doesn't have the right to just go to that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u39	Thank you. People's MP Chumak, please. Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u40	I'm sure my performance will be a little dissonance with everything that's been going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u41	Dear people's deputies, please. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say, I think my performance is going to be a little dissonant with what my colleagues said, but I know Alexia Cloud for eight years. To be honest, if the fact that Tetjana Cnerwell was talking about is confirmed, I'm a little embarrassed. But on a large scale, I want to say that in eight years I've known this person completely on the positive side. Moreover, he took part in the development of many, many anti-corruption laws, he took part in Maidan, he took part. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. He was involved. He took part in virtually all the anti-corruption measures that public activists did. While the faction has made a decision today: to vote in favour, if the fact that Tetjana Crnowil spoke of is confirmed -- I think we need to check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u43	Please, National Deputy Krulko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u44	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, is an offer: Today to postpone the consideration of this important issue. The point is that the candidate did not meet with the MP factions, particularly the Fatherland faction. We'd like to meet this candidate and hear his arguments. But at the same time, I would like to say that Transparency International's representative is automatically confident enough because this organization is known in the world as the organization that's engaged in the fight against corruption and overcoming this phenomenon. Moreover, we know the conclusions of Transparency International, which have quite high trust in society and trust, particularly in our political power. At the same time, though, today’s request that the vote not be ruined should be postponed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u45	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u46	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I think we should put it to a vote. I fully support everything Mrs. Tetjana Cnerwell has said here. I also had this information that they were removed from one crime database, and they were left at another base. That's why we can't now assign a corrupter to choose people to fight corruption in the future. It's nonsense. Therefore, I ask you to put the matter to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u48	If such serious charges are brought against a person, two suggestions are made. First. To the representatives of all the factions that have made these accusations, to join the working group of the Anti-Corruption Committee of Parliament and to either confirm or refute these accusations. The other one. To postpone today’s vote so that Mr. Cloud may meet with members of those factions who wish to discuss his work with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I think we should take both offers. First of all, I think it's worth moving on, because we don't have the only solution. Secondly, honourable members of the people, I ask your attention, I wanted you to hear me too. You realize that in this room there have been very serious accusations about a person who can risk his reputation for his life and we have no right to simply leave this question to the ground. So I propose that we move this issue forward and that, as the committee chairman has suggested, the national deputies of the various factions may meet under the leadership of the Committee on Prevention and Opposition of Corruption. And either prove, show evidence of that, and then we'll reject this candidate, or we'll correct this information so that we can support it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this matter to heart. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's get this over with. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please identify yourself as to the transfer of the matter. Project No. 2922 on the appointment of a candidate to a competitive commission to serve as members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Please be sure of the transfer of the matter. [[17:14:25]] For-72 Please make up your mind. I'm betting on the voting bill of Decree 2922 on the appointment of a candidate for a competition commission to serve as members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. The project is accepted as a basis and as a whole, according to the committee's proposal. Please vote. [[17:15:13]] For-35 The decision is not taken. For your consideration, it is proposed to draft Decree No. 2424 on the termination of the terms of office of a member of the Temporary Special Commission for the examination of the Judges of the General jurisdiction of the Pigeon V.V. Rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u50	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! In order not to take up your time for a long time, I would like to say that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice is initiating a draft decision on the termination of the powers of our colleague Vladislav Volodymyrovich Douba as a member of a temporary special commission that is responsible for the examination of the judges of general jurisdiction. Remember, the point is that in accordance with the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary, each faction of the Coalition Parliament has proposed one candidature, that's just five candidates that belong to the Supreme Council's quota. And the faction of Peter Poshenko offered Vladislav Dove of this faction. But considering that, according to the law, the work of this commission was provided for on a permanent basis, and the People’s Deputy of the Dove in accordance with the Constitution had the opportunity to determine where he considered it appropriate to continue working and in this particular period he wrote a statement in favour of Parliament, he wanted to remain in the Parliament’s walls as a national deputy, and he asked Parliament to consider these objective circumstances and to stop his term of office as a member of the commission. If today's decision is taken, Peter Prashenko's Block will have the right under the law to re-candidate from this faction to a temporary special commission. Please be supportive. There's no politics here, it's a technical decision, and the committee unanimously proposes it to the Supreme Council for a vote. Thank you. Honorable People’s Deputies — Is There a Need to Be Discussed? None. I think it's the will of the national MP, he wants to stop his mandate as a member of the Temporary Special Commission, and we should make a decision accordingly. Therefore, please focus and prepare for the vote of the draft Decree (number 2424) "On the termination of the terms of office of a member of the Temporary Special Commission for the examination of the judges, the courts of the common jurisdiction of the Pigeon." Please vote. [[17:18:41]] For 236 Thank you. Pan. Please. The draft Decree, Registration number (2817) "To amend the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of privatization", report by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u51	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! This ruling deals with the issue that arose after the exit of the two deputies of the faction of Peter Prashenko from the faction. Our faction under the Coalition Agreement has delegated them to the governing office of two, a standing commission on privatization and a law enforcement committee. In this case, we ask your support for people who have left the faction to get rid of the possibility of presenting its quotas in the governing bodies. Thank you and please support. Just like we did in the case of the originators of another faction. We insist on a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u52	Thank you. Honorable People’s Deputies — Is There a Need to Be Discussed? Is it? I won't. I would then like to refer to draft Decree No. 2817 on amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization." Please vote. [[17:21:08]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with the draft Decree No. 2054 amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for Young People's Contribution to the Development of Parliamentarianism, Local Self-Government". The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family and Youth Policy and Sports, House Arthur Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u53	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on 17 March this year, reviewed the draft Resolution on the Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, and Supplement No. 1 at Registration No. 2054. The draft of the decree, introduced by me, the national deputy of Ukraine, is aimed at improving the selection process, analysing information on the achievements of the candidates for the award. I'm reporting from the committee, same as the author. The draft regulation proposes to make a number of changes to the current Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, as part of the deadlines for the submission of concerns and the awarding of the prize and the consideration of the committee of proposals for candidates for the award to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the future. The change is caused by the failure of district councils and youth organizations to submit appropriate documents by April 1 to participate in the awarding of the award. Thus, changes are proposed. First. The filing of the issue and the awarding of the prize will be transferred from April 1 to September 1st. The other one. The selection and submission of these candidates by the Committee to the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place from 1 June to 1 October. And the third. The award will be transferred from Youth Day to December 1. Dear colleagues, please support this Order No. 2054 and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, please, is there a need to discuss the bill? The draft Decree No.2054 is requested for the decision: the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government" – on the basis and in general. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[17:24:21]] For 257 And, honourable national MPs, we have yet to consider the question of re-reading – Bill No.2804 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of powers to military law enforcement authorities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine to carry out pre-trial investigations into criminal offences and to carry out operational investigations. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u55	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 20 May of this year, the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security reviewed the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the granting of powers to military law enforcement authorities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine to carry out judicial investigations into criminal offences and to carry out operational investigations (No. 2804). In accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (since May 14), the project was handed over to our committee for a second time. The bill proposes, by amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the Ukrainian Law on Operational Investigation and the Ukrainian Law on Military Order in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to include military law enforcement investigators in the list of pretrial investigation bodies and to give them additional powers. Such changes, as explained in the Explanatory Note, will ensure that criminal offences are properly investigated in the context of a special period and a state of war, and that troops are found outside populated areas in peacekeeping contingents, and so on. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has made a number of observations and believes that the bill, as a result of the first reading, can be adopted as a basis. Members of the committee, in support of the idea of the distribution of law enforcement tasks and functions between civil and military law enforcement authorities, believe that the military police should be formed as a military law enforcement force on the basis of the Military Law Enforcement Service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and that the formation of such law enforcement is mentioned in the Coalition Treaty of Deputies factions. We believe that the provision of the Military Law Enforcement Service with additional powers in the area of pre-trial investigation or the establishment of additional units in its structure will require state renewal, the recruitment of people with new knowledge, education with completely different functions, and this will require additional funds from the state budget. In addition, we have a military prosecutor's office that has every opportunity to investigate war crimes at the proper level. In view of the above, the Committee on Legislative Protection decided to recommend to the Supreme Council: The first reading of the bill had the effect of returning the right of the legislative initiative to the subject. There are other thoughts that committee members today have expressed during the discussion of this project in additional meetings, in additional discussions, some members of the committee consider. It is thought that the adoption of this bill may be based on further elaboration. In view of the fact that the work of the Law on Military Police will take place at a certain time, the mandate for the Military Law Service should be extended at that time. So the committee took its decision. Please, everything depends on factions, coalitions and parliament now, make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u56	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Vinnik, subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, indeed, during the discussion of this bill in the session room a few weeks ago, a protocol commission was given to the Committee on Legislative Protection to finalize the bill and re-read it. In fact, the conclusions reached during the committee’s work and after the committee’s work have just been made by Mr. Cosemiakin, the chairman of the committee. Indeed, this bill needs to be adopted today on the basis of, indeed, study and, in fact, make it perfect for second reading, because today the reform of the military law enforcement service and the establishment of the military police will require additional expenditure from the budget for compensation provided by any military officer in the event of restructuring under the Military Service and Military Obligation Act and under the Act on Social Protection of Military Servants. Therefore, we propose to adopt a bill on the military service of law and order, which will allow temporary adoption of the relevant Military Police or Military Police Act to give the military service authority the functions of an active authority to prevent and investigate crimes with a very limited number of personnel, which is limited exclusively to military personnel and solely personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and only when they carry out their duties. Please support this bill on the basis and then we will work on it on the committee for the second reading. We have no right to delay this, because the issue of military discipline is the question of our defenceability, the defence capacity of our country. We have no right today to waste time in political discussions. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u58	Thank you. Are there any questions from the national deputies, or are we going to be speaking from national deputies and factions? Come on. Then start with the factions. Please sign up for the factions. Please record. Please, National Deputy Lozova, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u59	I give the word to the political prisoner of the Yanukovich regime, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u60	Please, National Deputy Igor Mosiychuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u61	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I support and the Radical Party will support the committee's decision on this issue to adopt the bill as a basis. Because, in fact, there are actually wild things happening in the area of Anti-Terrorism Operations, and sometimes things get even worse with their investigation. For example, if a military commits a crime, it is not the military prosecutor’s office who is now deciding whether or not to conduct an investigation, but the head of the U.S.O.D. pops up and all over the country claims that it is the Ukrainian military who killed a citizen there. I find this unacceptable and therefore this law is very important. But it is important only for a period of time until the Military Police Act is developed and adopted. Because, in fact, without the Military Police Act, all these meticulous interventions that we don't do will not lead to the result that the country that the Armed Forces are hoping for. So the Radical Party faction calls on a colleague to support the bill on the basis and allow the committee to work on it and then we'll accept and determine it. But in general, we expect the Military Police Act to be drafted as quickly as possible because the Armed Forces need order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u62	Thank you. People's MP Victor Chumak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc will not support this law for the following reasons. First, I want to say that this bill does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 17 of the Constitution provides that military formations do not have the right to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. The military law enforcement service is part of the military formation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and therefore cannot be applied to the issue of restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens, as provided for in article 17, part 4, of the Constitution. That's probably the first and the main reason. Another reason. We think we don't have to put holes in legislation, like, you know, small bills. I want to say that our coalition agreement with you provides for the drafting and adoption of a bill or a law on military police, which should address all issues of law enforcement in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including, say, war crimes. As far as I know, the President's bill on military police has been introduced today. I therefore propose to support the committee's proposal to send the subject to the legislative initiative, and it is more likely not to vote in favour of this bill in order to open the way for a presidential bill on military police and adopt a comprehensive basic bill on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u64	Thank you. National MP Paul Kishkar, "self-help" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u65	Please hand it over to Taras the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u66	National MP Taras Shepherd, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u67	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self - Help faction. I'm one of the co-authors of this bill, and I really want to focus your attention, my fellow dignitaries, and especially on the previous situation that unfortunately took place today in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Because, unfortunately, today I think that every single one of us who's been on the front and who's been in the real fights, every single one of us who came to the front, helping with volunteering, I think I'll confirm my words that I haven't been able to see any military prosecutors there. And yet, war crimes, unfortunately, happen there. And these war crimes, unfortunately, carry a number of the deaths of our fighters. Today, I can remind you of several cases where positions in the village of Nikishino have been held for more than six months. And during the rotation, when a completely different military unit was established, which spent literally 23 hours and marched away from its fighting positions, shaving the flank of another unit, none of those military officers was brought to justice by the military prosecutor simply because there was no military prosecutor there. When in the village of Ridkodub, when I had a cleansing operation and separation from my mouth, eight people moved forward, sadly, more than 30 fighters refused to cover up the flanks, resulting in the death of one of my friends, the brothers in arms. When the last day before Debalt's departure, he was left unannounced by the blockade and our fighters, who knew there was a cover-up, were completely at ease in these positions, unfortunately they were already waiting for secessionists, and unfortunately, three more of my comrades were killed in this fight. And unfortunately, once again, there was no military prosecutor in those positions, and no one was held responsible for that. So, along with our heroism of the boys, there is also, unfortunately, betrayal, and these traitors must be held accountable. Today, we offer that military law enforcement service in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation the opportunity to conduct judicial investigations so that the army will still have order. I agree with the observation that the scientific and expert board has made that the bill should specify, not military crimes, but clearly the articles on which responsibility must be drawn. I also agree with the observation that we need to be more specific about intelligence. But the question of increasing funding is not true. Because we've increased the number of armed forces with you, and the Law on the Military Service of the Order says that it's not more than one and a half percent. So now the number of military law enforcement is absolutely legitimate and will increase, and where are the investigators who were in military law enforcement until the 12th year that Janukovitch brought out of there so that the military forces can be calmly broken down. So the request is great for you, and we need to join the army today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u68	Please finish. Yeah, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u69	Because this is the life of our fighters on the fore. Therefore, the request to support these changes and, as soon as it is made, there is no bill from the President. We are ready to engage, work together, and after this special state of affairs, we are ready to adopt this bill. So please support in the first reading. And all of these changes we agree to introduce into this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u70	Thank you. National Deputy Alexander Dobrenko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u71	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! The bill 2804, the drafters of the bill propose a very simple thing, to focus three functions in the military law enforcement service: operational-searching, knowledge function, pre-trial investigation. In fact, the next step is to create, step by step, the creation of extraordinary trinity courts if the military law enforcement authorities in question were to take on criminal responsibility. This poses a serious threat to the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, since there is a very large number of powers in the single centre. It should be noted that the previous speakers, in particular, said that the military prosecutors were not on the scene, so in very many cases there were abuses during military conflicts and very many people were not held accountable. What is this reform that was initiated by the coalition, particularly with regard to the expansion of the state of military prosecutors in the general structure of the Attorney General's Office? Why, then, were military prosecutors created who could not properly exercise appropriate powers of inquiry. If the logic of this bill is that the military prosecutors do not properly exercise their powers, let's eliminate the military prosecutor's office, reduce the corresponding costs of maintaining the Attorney General's Office, and place specified powers on the military law enforcement service, it would be logical. And what's being suggested right now. The military law enforcement service will conduct a trial, then duplicate the functions of the appropriate military prosecutors. I don't think so, but my colleagues at the Opposition Block faction don't think it's really a reform of the law enforcement system, it's a grounding, really, a hole. And we encourage our colleagues not to support this legislative initiative, because there will indeed be a danger of implementing and protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens with regard to the objective investigation of criminal cases in respect of unbiased conduct of operational and investigation activities and the unbiased conclusion of indictments that will also come to trial on the basis of which appropriate criminal cases will be dealt with. Please do not support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u72	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for the nationals. National deputies, please sign up. National MP Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland faction, please. Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction was also looking at this one at its meeting. That's the question, and I want to say the following. The committee's actual decision is and it's professional, it seems right to me today. Why? Because the two bills that were being drafted on our committee, including myself with Mr. Palamarczuk, were written by one of the bills on the military police, then by the military police. They were safe in the Supreme Council Hall. Sadly, though, there is war today and there are issues related to these crimes, as well as to corruption that arises in the conflict zone, in the ATO area and against these crimes, someone has to fight them. That's why. And I agree with those national MPs who say we have to do all the decisions or what is written in the coalition agreement. Yes. Let's start with (1098), the Temporal Commissions Act, and then it'll be fair. But unfortunately, we have some double standards, and we adopt some laws, and we require them to be implemented, others we have not yet developed, and we insist that this bill should be considered in the Supreme Council. Therefore, the "Fatherland" faction will support the reform bill on the basis. on the granting of a possible function of investigative investigation and the operational and search activities of the military law enforcement service. Why? Because we don't know how much it's going to be, how much it's going to be, how much it's going to be, and who, according to what they say, is going to be able to guide society in that direction or in another direction, in terms of military police, without even having a military education, without even having a military legal education. Just by misleading everyone who should vote in this room. I'm against it. Against this faction of Fatherland. We'll vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u74	Thank you. National MP Sergey Melniczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u75	Good afternoon! This bill is of course very important. But there's one nuance in it. It is in this bill that there is a part of corruption. To whom the GSP service will be subordinated. In the bill, this service is subordinated to the Minister of Defence and the Chief of General Staff. So when we reported, for example, to the Chief of General Staff, to the GSP, that sailors cut tanks in the ATO area, they covered it all. It didn't come to the D.A.'s office. When Mr. Mehed called to release the humanitarian aid that came out of the ATO area, they covered it. And that's all, all these cases were closed. So we're going to make an offer to support this bill in the first reading. But the GSP's service is to be arranged by a military prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u76	Thank you. National Deputy Sergei Pashinsky, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u77	Good afternoon, dear friends. From this rostrum under this law there was so much information that I don't even know where to start. You know, paragraph one. Until the 12th year, there were such functions in the Military Law Enforcement Service. Janukovich systematically and deliberately destroyed our army, its strength, and its management tools. Item two. There is no doubt in this room that we need an effective military service of law and order. Paragraph three. If we're going to do the military police, which I'm in favour of, and I'm asking from this rostrum to support it, and I voted for it, then we have to understand that, according to the current legislation, three months goes into the elimination of the Military Order Service and the creation of a new body. And these three months, and we don't have them, we're going to have this, you know, transitional model. That's why, dear friends. Paragraph 4. It's not subordinated to the Chief of General Staff, it's not true, read the law. In fact, we took as a model what happened to Yanukovic, and we took on better world positions of service. It doesn't contradict the Constitution, like the laws on military police or the military police that we've been looking at here. Guys, if you'll excuse me, let's not even be pianist about this anymore. This is the law that everyone understands is necessary, let's vote it, I thank the colleagues who spoke in the first reading for their support, we will work with all the wishes on the basis of the profile committee and we will adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u78	Thank you. Is there going to be a national MP, Andrew Kozemyakin? No, it's not. Please, National Deputy Vasil Nimchenko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, when we speak of the establishment of a military structure, the more law enforcement structure, the objective of this structure must be taken into account. So I would like to say that, to date, the Office of the Procurator is responsible for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens through the operation of military units. However, I want to tell you that every tenth deserter today is criminalized for desertion, more than 5,000 of them. Isn't that a problem? Don't we have looting and armed robbery? Of course there is. Why did not the drafters of the bill, who had introduced the initiative, consider whether we needed structures, such as courts, specialized military courts? We either have a problem or we don't have six months to stay under investigation, or we don't have a conviction against the perpetrators at all. I therefore suggest that this solution should be addressed in a comprehensive manner, with issues that would provide an opportunity to protect the interests of both citizens and States, including those in pursuit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u80	Thank you. National Deputy Alexander Abdullin, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u81	Please give it to John Winnick, the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u82	Thank you. Please, Ivan Vinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you some dry statistics. Since the beginning of the ATO, it's since 14. 04. In 2014, 4 thousand 138 criminal offences were committed in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 366 were investigated, and 366 were transferred to court. Why so little? Because today, the Military Prosecutor’s Office, which is obliged to investigate these crimes, is not fully capable of carrying out these investigative actions, taking into account that particular composition, taking into account the territorial location. They don't have an operational search function. There is always a question of how to stop a person from delivering a suitable follow-up. Therefore, the bill must be adopted as a basis. I agree that the draft law on the Military Police has also been adopted, but until the adoption of the Military Police Act, we need to provide the Military Order with the necessary functions to enable them to carry out their duties effectively. Why is this important? But because it's a question of the strength of our army. And we can't delay it. And the last is about the budget. Once again, I would like to emphasize that when we adopt a draft law on the military police, all those who accept it have in mind that the question of reorganization is actually changing the name without changing the substance of this law enforcement in the Ukrainian Armed Forces system will cost the budget at least 30 million dollars. Since all military personnel will have to pay 50 percent of their cash for each month of service of years, count the number of seniors currently employed by law enforcement personnel who will change their name in the schedule. So let's support the base and move on. I agree that it can be adopted temporarily, until the adoption of the Military Police Act. And in no case does it go against the Constitution. Because there is an action, a limited warehouse, it's a law enforcement force in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It cannot and will never be used as military formation in relation to Ukrainian citizens, there is no conflict with the Constitution. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u84	Paul Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u85	I'm actually like a former military officer to tell you that we're too late for the Military Police Act just as much as our state exists. That's why we have to admit it. Further, when we work on this law and prepare it for the first reading, we must take into account that the military service of law and order must be reformed and tell people immediately that you are a continuation of the military police force so that people can count immediately. Of course, with regard to the quality of the people who are now in the Military Law Enforcement Service, very and very large questions. I think open competitions will soon appear in the military. But really, we need to be very careful about the appointment of those or other officials in the army of law enforcement. In fact, they can actually act as officers in certain matters, and they can do some of the things that are being investigated wrongly. So it's very careful to point out that they're actually going to move on to new positions in the military police, that we're not abandoning them, that we're not leaving them, and after the law is passed, we're not going to release them from military service. Let's show them this perspective right now. I think it's necessary to adopt this law in the first reading, to work on it, because, in fact, there are no investigators on the battlefield near the front, and prosecutors don't go there. And that's the question, and this gap needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote. All the national deputies, including the legislators, and the head of the profiling committee have had several opportunities to speak up and express their position. The common position and subjects of the legislative initiative and the committee of profile is to support Bill No. 2804 on the basis of the first reading. In this regard, honourable national MPs, I ask you to concentrate and propose a decision on draft Act No. 2804 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the granting of powers to the military law enforcement authorities in the Ukrainian Armed Forces to investigate criminal offences and carry out operational investigations. According to the first reading, the committee and the legislators are asked to support the initiative. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[17:56:05]] For 186
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u87	Please, by the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u88	Yes, please. Yes, the result of the vote is 290. 186, no decision taken. Please. Since the bill did not get the necessary number of votes, it is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-02-m1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have recently reached the conclusion of a regulatory committee on the attraction of responsibility, that is, the removal of the intrusiveness of the two national deputies. Now it's been printed and distributed. Appropriate work will be done to determine whether lawyers will check it, process it. The coalition council's decision is to decide that we will be considering this issue tomorrow at 10:30. Therefore, please take a close look at the procedure that needs to be fully discussed. And tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., after the national MPs have spoken, a question will be asked immediately about this issue of the agenda. But I would like to inform you that tomorrow’s appearance is absolutely mandatory, and everyone who does not participate in the meeting is automatically posted on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, tomorrow at 10:30 we will consider this matter. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. The evening session of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you.
