ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u1	Lunch break is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm asking co-workers to come into the hall and take jobs. Please come into the hall. The faction secretariat, I'm asking you to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work, and the heads of the factions, I'm asking you to mobilize the factions to work in the hall. We're not enough to go on. I'm asking everyone who's in the towers, in the buffet, into the hall, to get ready for work. Dear colleagues, it's the fourth of ten. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Important committees took place during the break, and not all reached a decision on the issues under discussion. And according to the Rules, I'm moving on to the next bill of procedure. Before that, however, Ruslan Knyazevitch, a respected colleague, rightly recalls, please prepare for registration. So now we're going to go to 2972 of the bill. There's just a few rights, a few rights, and that's why it's going to be very fast. We need a successful vote, and so I ask everyone to come back to the hall and prepare for registration so that we can start the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, are you ready? I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for the evening session. Please turn on the registration, please. [[16:13:21]] 338 deputies registered. We're enough for a full-time productive job. We turn to the bill, the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (number 2972). I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. I remind you, this is a bill we're looking at in the second reading, and that's why we're doing the usual procedure: the report, and then we're going to discuss every amendment that's not supported by the committee. I ask once again before Sergio Volodymyrovich's report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Second reading of Law 2072, procedural and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families. That's the point of the bill. Under Ukraine's Prevention of Financial Disaster and Premature Growth Act, we have limited social benefits to family incomes, including those distributed to military personnel. The committee decided to support the bill for the second reading in the following edition that the reduction in the cost of sanatorium treatment was granted to military personnel and their families, to remove the rule only if the average total income of the family per person in the previous six months did not exceed the amount of income that gave them the right to additional social benefits. That is to say, the people, the family of military personnel who receive 5,000, 700 dollars, are no longer able to use it. The bill envisages the removal of the reported social injustice, and this will allow, I stress, without increasing the budget expenditure of the budget expenditure on the social security of the IMF and the Ministry of Defence to give access to those who have higher incomes. Our colleagues in Self-Help, Taras Shepherd, have a solution to their faction. They're still proposing an amendment to make about three non-taxable minimums, that is to say it will. Three living minimums. Given that the faction insists, I think we can agree with this amendment. This will give, once again, the opportunity for the poorest military personnel, but with 6,000 dollars or 4.5 thousand dollars there, you can still use that benefit. And in the military, for example, the senior command force, who's going to have monthly incomes of more than 10 or 15 thousand dollars, they can't use that benefit anymore. With this observation, I think that, colleagues, I would like to support this bill and allow a wider circle of Ukrainian Armed Forces and the IMF to benefit from the legal aid. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u3	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you, one thing, for the transcript to sound, or I'll give the word to the Shepherd to make it sound. Then, with your permission, I thank you for the report and ask for the amendment that the committee head spoke about to make a statement under the transcript so that we can have the full text for the vote. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u4	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Unit. We suggest leaving the second paragraph in the following line: "The benefits provided by the first sentence of paragraph 1 of this paragraph shall be granted to military personnel and their families on condition that the average monthly total income of the family per person in the previous 6 months does not exceed three subsistence minimums." Today, this is about 4,000 dollars. That is, a family of three members of the family should not exceed more than 12,000. So this is a compromise agreed upon by the Ministry of Defense, which is supported by our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u5	Thank you. So let's move on to the amendments that were passed on to the committee. The amendment was two, and two amendments were rejected, but after each of them we should be able to express ourselves. So amendment number one of the Royal People's Deputy. Does the Queen insist on this amendment? Don't insist. 2 Amendment of the Royal People's Deputy. Does it insist on this amendment? Don't insist. So, dear colleagues, we've considered all the amendments. I would like to point out that the amendment made by the chairman of the committee and the national deputy shepherd is a consolidated amendment that is made to the body of the law. We're about to go to the vote. An important law on the social protection of our military personnel. And so I ask all the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, our military officers should be mentioned not only in the posterior talks at the rally but, in turn, in the vote of the important decision and their support here in the hall. So once again, I'm asking the people's deputies who are in the towers that are in the hall, but not in their workplaces, to take jobs and get ready to vote. Mrs. Olga the Mantis, I must address you directly so that you can prepare for the vote and take part in the vote. Please, I beg of you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'm still going to make a signal vote before that, so we can see how much potential there is in the room. Because slow MPs are coming to their jobs. So I'm voting for a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families No. 2972. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[16:20:31]] For 202 I hope they didn't all make it, yes. Please, fellow Members, once again insistently and forcefully invite members to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the faction secretariats to report once again that there is a vote, a responsible and important vote on the social and legal protection of military personnel and their families. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, please mobilize. Please prepare for the vote. I'm going to re-vote to make sure that the room has the required number of votes. So, Mr. Vladimir, please have a card, right? I put a signal vote on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (number 2972). Please vote, this is a signal vote. Please vote. [[16:22:11]] For 217 We didn't make it. We didn't make it. I'm asking you to invite a faction colleague into the voting room. I'm asking respectable colleagues who can hear me, who are in the towers, not enough votes for an important law on the support of our military. And this is only because there are not enough deputies in the room. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Yes, the honourable colleagues were able to move from the government's bed to the session hall, that's a victory, that's a success. Now I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, invite from the towers to the Chamber of Deputies. Please prepare for the vote. I was told that not everyone had been able to vote. And that's why I'm going to re-vote with the hope that the MPs are already enough in the room. So I'm voting for a bill (number 2972) on the social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families. Signal vote, please vote. Please vote. [[16:24:29]] For 226 Thank you. I ask you to come to the hall, not to move away from the workplace, to concentrate, because I am voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (number 2972), as amended (which Sergey Pashinsky of the rostrum spoke, and the national deputy Shepherd of the place for the transcript) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[16:25:22]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u6	Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, a second reading project has been introduced for your consideration, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, Gregory Mikhailovich Nemira. We've got the chart, dear colleagues, please. 1 amendment, People's Deputy Wesselova. Don't insist. 2 revisions. Alona Shkrum. Don't insist. Third. National deputy of Wesselova. Don't insist. Four. Natalia Royal. Don't insist. 5th. Natalia Royal. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. People's deputy Lensky. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. A royal, a national MP. He won't report. 11th, Lensky. Don't insist. 12th Amendment, Royal. Don't insist. 13 doesn't insist either. 15th National Deputy Constantinowski. 15 revisions. Don't insist. National MP Wesselova, 16th Amendment. Don't insist. 17th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. The 18th, too, does not insist. 19th, so is National Deputy Constantinowski. 20 amendment, People's Deputy Wesselova. Don't insist. 21st doesn't insist either. 22nd People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. 23rd, Constantinowski. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 26th doesn't insist either. 27th. Don't insist. 29th. Don't insist. 30th. 31st. Don't insist. 32nd. They do not insist on this amendment, which is rejected by the committee. 36th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. All right, dear colleagues, we've been through 37 amendments to the bill (registration number 2166) with you. I'm asking you to take your seats, dear colleagues. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. An extremely important question. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. The question is about strengthening the guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. Please, colleagues, signal vote 2166 draft law in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Vote in the second reading and in general, please vote. [[16:29:15]] For-200 Dear colleagues, we have 200 votes. Please do it again. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. It was a signal, dear colleagues. Please, please, please. This question of internally displaced persons was a signal vote. I'm re-nominationing 2166 in second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues, internally displaced persons 2166, please vote, please support, Your Honor. [[16:30:36]] For 239. Thank you. 239, respected colleagues. I now put to the vote a second reading and a total of 2166. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[16:30:57]] For 243 243 – Law adopted. Thank you, Your Honor. The next issue of the agenda is the first reading, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's territorial defence laws. That's the question. Dear colleagues, on the second floor, in bed, our colleagues from Germany. At the head of the delegation is Barbara Stamm. This is the Speaker of the Bavarian Parliament. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Draft Law. Dear colleagues, the draft Law (2489a) is a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's territorial defence laws. In the absence of a minister of defense in Kiev, First Deputy Defence Minister Rusnak Ivan Stepanovich will report. There is a proposal for the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I'd like to make a statement, Your Honor, regarding the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[16:32:56]] For-141 The required number of votes did not come in. Dear colleagues, here we go. Pay attention! Suggested by the reporter: consider the draft law by a reduced procedure. I'm making this motion for a vote, so please be sure to consider a simplified procedure for this bill. Please, colleagues, identify yourselves. [[16:33:35]] For 148 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u7	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The bill is designed to implement the decision of the President of Ukraine and the plan for the implementation of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the strategy for the continued development of Ukraine 2020 in 2015. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the preparation and conduct of the territorial defence of its subjects, as well as to ensure that these measures are provided by local government administrations. Amendments and refinements are made to four laws. The Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations sets out additional tasks for local administrations to ensure preparation and participation in the organization of territorial defence and their authorization to finance such measures. The laws of Ukraine "On Defence of Ukraine", "On Military Duty and Military Service", "On the State Security and Information Protection Service" define the functions of the Ministry of Defence to ensure the relationship between the Armed Forces on defence issues with civil union and the issue of assisting the executive authorities in strengthening the security of the State and the military and patriotic upbringing of Ukrainian citizens; the defined functions of the General Staff with the organization of responsibilities for the recruitment of military personnel during a special period; the regularization of the military authorities of the Armed Forces and the State-elected forces and resources of the State-owned Service, the Democratic People's Republic of the Republic of Macedonia and the Destructural Defence in a special period; the establishment of territorial defences outside the areas of military operations throughout the Ukraine; the composition of the military units of the military service; and the composition of the military units of the provincial governorate of the Government of the State; and the provincial governorate of the provincial administration of the military. Its implementation does not require additional costs from the budget. At the same time, taking into account the experience of ATOs, it will be more effective to carry out the tasks of territorial defence and the use of selected forces and tools. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u8	Please sign up for the interview. Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u9	Dude, there's no questions and there can't be. Questions to those who are now in the dining room: When will you finally get drunk? In a state of war, everything for the front, everything for victory, laws aimed at strengthening the defense of the state, should be voted 100 percent by all deputies and 100 percent by the pro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u10	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u11	I want to ask. On what basis will the territorial defence unit itself be formed, and who will be the leaders of these divisions, and to whom will they directly be subordinated?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u12	Thank you for asking. The decision to form territorial defence units is made by the General Staff. Military commissioners will be in charge, or at the decision of the General Staff, those who will be appointed to assemble and manage them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u13	Thank you. Please report to the committee head. Sergei Pashinsky, please. Deputy to the Board of Directors, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the establishment of the territorial defence unit is extremely important for Ukraine, because the functions of the National Guard in the rear can be territorial defence. The National Guard fighters are trained, shot, and can actually strengthen the protection of our borders, rather than the protection of strategic sites in the rear, the protection of administrative buildings, the protection of important objects and communications, and these functions, similar to those of the National Guard today, can be carried out by territorial defense. This bill is aimed at resolving issues of territorial defence, on which the issue of financing territorial defence, organizational action, and so on is based. Indeed, this context mentions the role of State administrations and the functions that today will rely on them regarding the organization of work and the process of organizing territorial defence units. Instead, some of the formulations that exist in this law, namely, that local government authorities can actually prepare and participate in the organization of territorial defence. Instead, they can't lead the territorial defense in any way, because any military command in Ukraine belongs to the General Staff. There's another coalition that relates to what we have in the Ukrainian Defence Act is the concept of an anti-terrorist operation. And we have an anti-terrorist operation today run by an anti-terrorist center, a headquarters created to solve individual issues. Instead, this law relies on command by territorial defense on the General Staff. So we really need to remove these regulatory shortcomings and legal colossalities before the second reading, and adopt this law, and start funding from the budget, today, really, the establishment of territorial defence units. Because the issue of territorial defence has already been resolved a year and a half ago, but in the absence of adequate public funding, and any military unit in Ukraine has to be financed from the state budget, otherwise we have a situation about the creation of private armies, which we see today, then it's called political repression. So we need to regulate, and we welcome the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, on this legislative novel. Let's accept it in the first reading as an important bill. And for the second reading, the National Security and Defence Committee will process and remedy all the shortcomings, and we will get an important and effective law that will raise the defense and defence capacity of our state. Thank you. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Questions to the co-rapporteur, three minutes, please log in. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u16	From the experience of doing things in the East and from my experience in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I want to say that this system, which it is the military that is going to run the territorial defence units, is not working. We need to make a separate structure that deals specifically with these departments and their schools. Because the way we did it when things were in the East, it's a total disaster. It was all on the shoulders of volunteers and volunteers. But the system won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u17	In this case, in the context of this law, there are no military personnel mentioned, but when quoted specifically, the issue of territorial defence is organized by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. As for the preparation of funding, budgetary financing, and other economic measures, local government administrations are responsible. I hope that the model proposed today by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Defense, will perhaps be more effective in terms of what works today. That's why we're looking at this bill today, because that's what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give us two minutes away from groups and factions. Please sign up if you wish. Two minutes from the groups and the factions. Please, Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u19	Territorial defense as it is at the moment is inconvenient. That's why I was offered a bill on the so-called army in January, yes, thank you, the Reserve Army Act. It is therefore necessary to develop a new law and to fully incorporate all the amendments in that law. And the Territorial Defense Act, it doesn't work and it won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u20	Please, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? This is an extremely important bill for our territorial defence of Ukraine. But I want to make a note. In principle, it is important to us who will be the instrument of territorial defense. Because if it's really going to be the same now as the warlords that are now the warlords, these are the organs that are taking bribes in all areas. On average, for 20,000 dollars, you don't have to mobilize. Instead, we have soldiers who mobilize oncological people, mobilize people who are ill, and mobilize people who are addicted to alcohol. If you and I could legitimize these bribes and take all those who are not ready to join the army, please pay 20,000 dollars. And our army, our contractual army will receive, we estimate, a minimum contract fighter will receive 9,000 dollars of wages. Then it's a real change. If this territorial defense is solely directed by those officials, those soldiers who are in place now, it's an absolute fiction. Because today's soldiers need to be categorically removed from office, assigned to an open competition, and first of all take those guys who have no limbs left, who are disabled by the first group and wounded. They'll be the best soldiers. Then we can continue this reform and introduce territorial defence. Thank you. It's very important to us who will be in charge of this process. Because the General Staff can't handle it right now because of what's going on in the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u22	Please, Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u23	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help faction. Our faction will support this bill. But we do have a few questions for the Ministry of Defense. Today, the preparation and introduction of territorial defenses on local administrations is on the line. Well, today we're actually giving authority, but who's going to do it, and what kind of resource is going to be strengthened, the bill of answers is not going to be given. Moreover, it is not clear to us if we are having a discussion in Ukraine today that we are eliminating these administrations, to whom these functions will continue. I mean, is this really going to work? In addition, the bill indicates that, with a special period, all units are centralized in the hands of the General Staff. But today we have a clear example of an anti-terrorist operation, and all the departments are subordinated to the anti-terrorist centre. That is, there is some dualism of authority. So there are a lot of things here that need to be worked out with the Ministry. And I hope that in the committee we can find the answers to these questions. So I'm asking the Ministry to pay attention at this very moment to the part of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Colleagues, please, two minutes away from the deputies. Ten minutes at a time. Please sign in. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u25	Actually, I would like to respond to the comments made by my colleague Taras Shepherd, a member of our committee. Indeed, the issue of financing territorial defence must come from a well-established budget. And that's exactly what we have to anticipate when we look at the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2016. And the territorial defense is not effective today, because, in fact, the people who joined the territorial defense, because the respective units, they had the right direction from the General Staff, from the Ministry of Defense to create in places, they didn't get the right funding, and they only existed on charity contributions. So, really, if we line up budgetary funding today, we give the executive branch a right in places, in this case it's the national local administrations, in the future, maybe it's some other executive committee, or whatever other term it's going to be called, and it's going to be centralized, at the expense of the state budget, and then the territorial defense will work. So let's vote in the first reading so that we don't lose this bill important and prepare it for the second time with the committee, with the Ministry of Defence, with the other deputies, with the other committees that want to join to increase the defense of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u26	Thank you. Can we call this a closing statement? Dear colleagues, I suggest we discuss it now, draft Law 2489 amending some of Ukraine's territorial defence laws. Now we're going to vote on the basis. Please prepare for the vote. Please, 2489a as a base. Signal vote. Please vote. Based on the base. [[16:51:14]] For 178. There are not enough votes. I propose that we continue to discuss draft laws related to defence. And the next draft of the law, and then we'll go back to voting. Draft law (registration No. 2504a) on the Single Military Register. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself. [[16:51:55]] For-147 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. The offer of a profile committee to consider a reduced procedure. Please identify 2504a as a reduced procedure. Identify yourself. [[16:52:22]] For-157. Decision taken. Please report by reduced procedure 2504a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u27	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is designed to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the tasks set out in the coalition agreement with a view to legalizing the creation of the Single National Military Register, as well as the provision of automated military accounting for Ukrainian citizens. The bill sets out the basic principles for the creation and maintenance of a register, the normalized issues of military accounting for the military, which will be implemented not only on paper account cards, but also electronically in the only centralized database that will be locally located at the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The completion of the base will be carried out by military commissioners, and the planning of the mobilization and analysis of the information will be carried out by the General Staff. That's right. Department of Defense, Chief of Staff, General Staff. The register covers the entire network of military commissioners in the state and works in real time. A similar system in the Armed Forces is created for the first time. The operation of the register will allow the creation of a centralized database of all military-related and conscriptors, reduce the corruption factor in military commissions during mobilization, and prevent citizens from being mobilized. The register is planned to be created using existing databases of the Armed Forces, State Border Services, Minoswits, and other executive authorities. The exchange of information will take place within the terms defined by the Ministry of Defence, through the exchange of information on flash drive or disks that have the "Service usage" limit graph. The adoption of the draft law is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u28	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u29	He doesn't need any extra expenses from the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u30	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the Main Committee, the report, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, last March, when the first wave of mobilization was announced in response to Russia’s aggression against our nation, we faced tremendous challenges. Even though we had hundreds and hundreds of thousands of military bounds, this information did not really fit in the mass of its reality, it was not updated. In fact, it was this situation in the army of the Soviet Union, which, unfortunately, in 25 years has not actually been done by anyone, has not been updated and which has, in fact, been a major obstacle to the mobilization of businesses. I ask you all to support in the first reading of the Law on the Single Register of Military Servants. It is an electronic register, written down in its rules, written out the rights and obligations of the parties. Including those who will be entered into the register, they will have their rights. That'll give us a chance to get a new approach to mobilization. This will give us the opportunity to take a new approach to the appeal. This will enable us to plan and organize, including the same territorial defense that we have just talked about, about educational congregations. This will give us an opportunity, if we need to mobilize more qualitatively, than we unfortunately did. The law is proposed before the first reading is accepted. For the second reading, if there are any significant remarks, we will work on it. And I now ask all the deputies to support him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u32	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. People's MP Screepnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The need for this law arose after the war broke out and when we saw that to this day our base on mobilization was paper. The method of avoiding mobilization was very simple: it was done; it was done; it was not done; there was no person. In fact, we are probably the only country in Europe in which, in such an important part as mobilisation, papers are still in operation today. So the only way to end this is to bring in and build a normal base of military obligations. Actually, in order to do this and to reconcile the bases among ourselves, this law is meant to do so. Therefore, it is a great request to vote for it because it is essential for the development of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u34	Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u35	No doubt it is difficult to overestimate the importance of the law. At the same time, when we looked at it on the committee for the first reading, we looked at the shortcomings that should be corrected for the second reading. Well, first of all, the "Explanatory Note" to this law is that the register will be created at the expense of charity. No doubt this does not require spending the state budget. At the same time, the committee believes that important things such as the State Register of Military Obligations must be funded and will be owned exclusively by the State of Ukraine. That's why we're going to propose that we actually provide for funding in the Ministry of Defense's general fund to fund the creation of such a register. Undoubtedly, we also need to take into account the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act, because this legislative novel does not say anything about it, but we can also correct these flaws until we read again. And the last. There's a debate about the norm that says that this register will include not only military bounds, but also, in general, all Ukrainian citizens between the ages of 18 and 60. Indeed, the discussion needs to determine why, for what reasons, all citizens have come to this register. There may be objective reasons for doing so, and this may need to be corrected for a second reading. So I think we should vote, take it as a base and work on the second reading. Please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There is, of course. I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. This is how we define the way in which we speak: through the entry "two" to "for", two to "against". Please log in. For some reason the MPs were not oriented, apparently. There's only one MP written down. I'm asking you to re-write, please re-enable the two-in-pro, two-again system. Please include "two for", two for "against". Please, Long. Long, please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u37	I give the word to Melnichuku, of the "will of the people" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u38	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u39	When I look at practice, I'm not a theorist, I'm a practitioner. In practice, not only did I see the electronic database pour out to the separatists, but the account cards in full volume, the entire area of the district was simply handed over and left unpunished. How do they think about protecting the database, how do they plan to protect it if they sell everything? How's Cyber-Bergut, Cyber-Bergut, it'll all turn up? How will the law enforcement service view this if Cyber-Berkut has one and a half thousand of my fighters, and the chief of law and order hasn't responded, he's been promoted to deputy minister? So this impunity that we now have in the Ministry of Defense and General Staff, until we change those lamps, nothing will change, nor will it change in the military. The system needs to be completely altered, and only then will everything else be loaded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Self-help faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u42	The bill has a really important goal: to create a single register of militaryly bound persons, but at the same time this bill contains a number of shortcomings: according to the bill, a number of government authorities are obliged to provide information to the registry administrator not only about military-related persons but also information about all Ukrainian citizens between the ages of 18 and 60. In particular, the Central Electoral Commission, the central executive bodies that implement state policy in the sphere of State border protection. As well as the central executive bodies that provide for the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of education, the science that provides information to all Ukrainian citizens without exception, who are being trained in higher education institutions in the form of day-to-day education. Nevertheless, this bill needs work, although it has a very important purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Kugel Alexander, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, the Bible says that there are two of the most terrible trials — power and money. And that's why I'm not surprised at both the bill and the new register. I can tell you that all the registers are a very interesting direction to make money from the head of the organization. Because all the owners of the registers take and give a good turn for that software product. Second, would you please tell me, all the men here, are you in military custody? Yes. Why, if you want to build your own base, but to protect it, but we know you can buy any register on Petrovka today, please do it, if you need it, and not raid Kharkiv's backyards or villages. Third. The president, and primarily since 2010, the Fatherland Party, has been talking about a contractual army. So are we gonna walk or go? I think we should make a decision about the contractual army. Collecting all the documents is necessary, not rebirthing the poorest so that they can be shipped to the ATO without weapons. And so I remind you of the leadership of the Supreme Council, the leadership of the country, that the Fatherland faction will not vote on any bill until laws directly affect the quality of life of Ukrainians are considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Vitko Artem Leonidovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! The contract army is itself. It can only be done in the United States of America, which has no external borders. To date, Ukraine has borders with a terrible enemy who is currently trying to destroy our statehood. What kind of contractual army are we talking about right now? We need to vote in favour of this bill and everything. This earlier. Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko destroyed fuel storage bases, covers and so on. The Ukrainian Armed Forces have been destroyed, and now these people are telling us what we need to do with some contractual army. We don't need a contract army. We need a powerful, powerful army. Thank you for your attention. We vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, really, if we mention the history of the issue, the creation of a contractual army in Ukraine has been going on since 2005. And it's a shame that back then, in the session room and in the government at the time, there was no understanding that there was to be a contractual army in Ukraine. But it's been forming for 10 years, at least. And thanks to the work of our parliament today, we have strengthened the contractual component already in today's army, including by adopting a bill on the possibility of a six-year contract to those of our mobilized, who want to remain in the army. But in the context of the actual war against Ukraine, there must be a question of the possibility of mobilization. And of course, this bill in this context is very important, and we need to have an electronic normal register of military bounds. That's true. And here's another question. Why a state that invests so much money in military training, then at 45 years of age, they retire and work at a second job, while everyone who's ever been to an advanced one has seen that the average age is now mobilized, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u49	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u50	Also very often, 40-45 years of boys, men, more loyally, are summoned, but there are very few professional military, professional staff of our own. So what is it? It is because we do not have a proper register of normal military obligations. That is why our political power supports this bill. But he fully shares the expert’s view, Mr. Winnick, that the second reading requires appropriate adjustments to make it ideal. And so that we can develop a normal contractual army, and at the same time a good, normal, European army.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues! It's a very, very active debate on this bill. Not all factions have been able to come forward yet. And so I'm very much asking my colleagues, those factions that haven't had a word yet, they're going to be given a word so that we can discuss and be able to make reasoned and balanced decisions. So I'm giving it first from the People's Front, no one's been speaking, Andrew Teteruk. Please, from the rostrum. Then Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u52	Deputies! I would like to point out that this bill is critical for our Ministry of Defence and General Staff to have a new, clear system of orderly control over military personnel who are part of the appeal. At present, everyone in the room is doing their job and no one is avoiding, honourable MPs, no one is avoiding the issue of national security. We've got experts who say that the leaders on this need to get rid of it. You might want to know from your previous activities. I want you to read the bill carefully. So there's no government funds. This is the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u53	Apologize now! Sorry, I said! Apologize!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u54	Secondly, our Genstab has today's quality system of cryptosacists, cryptosacists. So when you're accusing. Don't break the equipment!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u55	I'm sorry, I'm talking! Apologize!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u56	I don't want to apologize. You must, you must understand what is happening!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to keep your discipline in the hall. I'm asking you to keep your discipline in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u58	I demand words.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u59	Let me finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u60	You're not an officer!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u61	Please, dear fellows! Dude, Andrew! Dude, Andrew, we're done here. I give the word to Oleg Laishka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Chairman, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have a very big request for you. Artem Vitko, a national deputy of Ukraine, spoke on September 18 of this year from the parliamentary rostrum, announced the withdrawal of the Radical Party faction. Now this guy is sitting in the Peter Prashenko Block, and on the board we see that Witko is a member of the Radical Party faction. This information does not match the validity of this information. The entire country heard Witka’s claim, which he made as a result of the bribe he was bought, in cash. Confirming that he was sold, he was in the BP sector. I'm asking you to submit information to the Council's electronic system and identify Witka as a non-fractional national MP. Otherwise, it's bullshit. It comes out of the parliamentary rostrum, claims to have left the faction, continues to hang information about membership in the faction. He withdrew his application to quit the faction for one reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down now. Please don't yell at me first, calm down. I'm asking everyone not to scream, calm down. The moment 10 people are trying to get some kind of a messaging out of the room, I can't hear any of them. So I will now give the floor, according to the Rules, to those deputies mentioned during the speech. But I ask very much that we do not translate the law concerning the safety of military personnel into political opposition. So we're just breaking the bill. And with your permission, I'll add a minute to Andrew Teteruk so he can speak. They don't have to come out of the rostrum. So right now, according to the Rules, I give my word to those mentioned. The first Alexander Kugel, one minute for the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u64	I want to answer Mr. Teteruk and the new MPs who have come to avoid using you in the next. I'm one of the first civil servants to contact the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service for the use of registration funds. Then, if you remember, Mrs. Lukas raised the question. And thanks to Paul Petrenko, who came as justice ministers, he completely broke the scheme on the ten registrations that were in the Ministry of Justice. And that's why I was talking about this question, knowing what kind of system of corruption was working in the appointment of registers. And if you want some personal explanation next time, I'll give you as a young MP who has no experience, with great pleasure, an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, Deputy Vitko, one minute for the lineup. Don't mention the last name, because I'm going to have to give out endlessly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u66	Dear friends! About my statement I was talking about. I said that so far, the dispersion of any situation with regard to the coalition is separatism. And that's what I've been saying all along. And if Oleg Valerievich, the man I've been to recently. Which I have just mentioned, I consider to be the betrayal of Ukraine and the betrayal of the Ukrainian people and the betrayal of the Ukrainian army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u67	Please, Andrew Teteruk, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u68	I want to remind politicians who have built their careers in the midst of corruption and are corrupt almost everywhere. Today's bill, it has a great system of cryptologist, which will be guaranteed not only by the staff of the General Staff but also by modern means. So she can't be angry or hidden. Secondly, control over the distribution of such data is the main feature of our Ukrainian Security Service. So that's why they're going to keep track of how that base is going to be used. And the budget allocation doesn't come in a penny. This program will be made up of funds that will run this program. So I'm asking all the national MPs to sit down right now and press the pros button. Because we are guilty of continuing our work, we have a tremendous amount of work to do, and we are aware of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask once again that the emotions in the room be a little less. The bill, which deals with military matters, has been translated into a political plane that threatens that voting for it will take place, not professionally, but politically. But anyway, I'm going to put it to a vote, and first I'm going to put it to a vote, so that the law doesn't fail. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please enter the hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Law on the Single Register of Militaryly Bindings (number 2504a), a signal vote. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote. [[17:17:17]] For 193 There is no possibility of making a decision. Dear colleagues, we have two bills that have not obtained the necessary number of votes. Look, two bills, we can go in the form of his discussion earlier to go back to voting when we can fully complete this vote. Dear colleagues, is it supported that we will now postpone these two important bills and move on to a second reading of the following bills? Dear colleagues, let's talk for a minute about how we can deal with these bills, whether we're working on them or moving them, as previously considered for individual decision-making. Let's talk for a minute. Please, from the Self-Help faction, one minute, from the Petra Prashenko Block, Barna, one minute. And, please, Melniczuk, one minute. I'm just asking very much in my speech to focus on how we're going to proceed with these bills right now. From "self-help" who? Please, Shepherd, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u70	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. The proposal of our faction to send this bill to the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, Barna, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u72	Dear friends, we all know how systematically and consistently, according to a clearly defined algorithm, according to Yanukovitch Russia, in the person of those pro-Russian defence ministers, destroyed our army, destroyed our mobilization training, and destroyed the registers of military personnel who were destroyed in the military. So the question is another, we need to create a system where every citizen should not only shout the glory of Ukraine, but be ready to go out and protect the country and his family. The contract army must be, and it will be the backbone of Ukraine's overall system-wide defence policy, but every citizen must be in strict military accounting and must always be ready for the first alarm signal to come to the military and take up arms, and stand in defense of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, then Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky. Sergey Melniczuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u74	Mr. Teteruk said that corruption has already been overcome. Then why isn't half-soldier still in prison? And why isn't Dublin sitting down? Why do they receive rewards and titles? Until reform is carried out, the electronic system should not be activated. Because in a couple of hours she'll be in Cyber-Bergut, well, all over the world. Clearly, there should be no electronic register until the army reforms are in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u75	Thank you. I'm asking the People's Front immediately and the committee head to make a constructive proposal on how we can deal with these bills. Sergei Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, well, I'm addressing the entire hall. This bill has nothing to do with the contractual army, nothing. Whether or not we need a contractual army is a separate discussion, a serious discussion, an explanation of a serious and serious global concept. This bill organizes what isn't organized right now, it's a very simple thing, and I don't see the subject here at all. Given the position of two non-voting factions, I ask the deputies to support the decision and send it to the committee. We will hold a committee tomorrow, and I invite everyone to come to the committee and tell us why this bill should not be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u77	Thank you for your discussion. Please, let's move on to the last speech by Vladimir Parasuk and move on to the decision-making process. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u78	I want to take one minute away from you, explain. Do you want to give these tools to whom? The men and the Hellets who created the Debalts and the Ilovian boilers? Do you want to give information to these people? Then take sin for your conscience. As long as we're not reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces, we can't make any electronic lists, because tomorrow they'll be on the table in Putin. Remember what you are doing!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so during the discussion, there was a proposal from both the Self-Help faction and the People's Front faction, and at the same time from the committee: send it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of bill 2504a. Yes, according to the Rules, we must act. And I'm suggesting that we can support this proposal in a consolidated hall. And I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal that came from the national MPs. And first for the signal vote to see if there are enough votes and then for the final vote. Therefore, I would like to put a motion to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Law on the Single State Register of Militaryly Responsibilized (No. 2504a). Dear colleagues, please vote. Please take part in the vote. To be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote. [[17:24:16]] For the 220. 220's in. I ask my colleagues to prepare for the vote. I know I haven't been able to vote. Please mobilize, focus, take up jobs so that we can vote in full. Everybody ready? So, once again, I no longer put the bill to the vote, fully put the proposal to the committee to prepare for the first reading of the draft Law on the Single Register of Militaryly Bindings (No. 2504a). Please vote. Please support the offer. Please vote. [[17:25:15]] For 227 227 for. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I also propose the previous bill that we discussed. Mr. Yegor Sobolev, Mr. Pashinsky, as well as the previous bill, which we did not make a decision to send to the committee for a re-reading. Is there general support for the hall? Previous, 2489a. We discussed it, but the signal vote did not give enough votes. So this is the same proposal: these are two bills to send to the committee for re-reading. Please take your seats again, prepare for the vote. It's an emergency first. So it is proposed that Bill 2489a, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on territorial defence, should be sent to the committee for the preparation of the first reading. The signal vote that supports the proposal, please vote. Please give me a signal vote. [[17:26:35]] For 225 One vote is missing, I ask the MPs to take up jobs, try to report to the workplace. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Yes, I'll put it to a vote. No, no, it was a signal, no need to come back. I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s territorial defence laws (number 2489a). Please support the proposal, please vote. Dear colleagues, in the corner. Dear colleagues, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk! Ukraine awaits your decision. Please return to your seats. Deputy Homutinnick, Deputy Homutinnick! Please prepare for the vote, please vote. To the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote, please support. Please, let's vote. [[17:28:06]] For 255 Decision taken. The committee's working on it, and we're going back to those bills for a new committee. On the order of the day, we move on to the next bill. This is a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for the psychological rehabilitation of military personnel after carrying out military tasks) (number 2686), a bill in second reading. And I invite you to report to the committee of Deputy Winnick. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I hope this law will finally unite the House in voting on the law as a whole. It's extremely simple, very important. It does not refer to strategic matters, but it refers to people, military personnel, and persons released from military service who have returned from war at home today, to peaceful life, to civilian life. Many of those who came back today really need psychological or psychological help. And this law proposes that they be given such a right to free psychological and medical and psychological assistance, rehabilitation, and so on, so that these people can really reintegrate into a peaceful life. It's a second reading. Seven amendments were made to the bill, three of which were taken into account, two taken into account editorially and two rejected. According to the committee, the bill can be accepted for second reading as a whole. There's nothing more to report. Let us unite and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, few amendments have been made. Most of them were included in committee work. But two were rejected, and I am obliged to announce them. So this is the 4th amendment. I was walking, a national MP. Does he insist on this amendment? Don't insist. 5th Amendment, Ungurian, People's Deputy. Does he insist on this amendment? Don't insist. So we've finished the discussion, and I'm putting this bill to the vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, the bill deals with the legal protection of military personnel, members of their families. I'm asking you to take a responsible approach to this vote, go into the room from the towers, take jobs, and get ready for the vote. So first, I'm going to put on a typical signal vote. So I'm voting for a bill amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (number 2686) in the second reading and in general. Signal vote. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Please. [[17:31:42]] For 228 Thank you. There are voices in the room, and I put to the vote the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (on psychological rehabilitation of military personnel after carrying out tasks under martial law) (number 2686) on second reading and in general. Please vote. Be my guest, dear fellows. Please. [[17:32:27]] For 236 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill with the law passed. On the order of the day, we go to the drafts in the first reading. Next on the table is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code" to improve excise duties in retail trade of petroleum products (number 2388a). There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:33:20]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u82	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Allow me to inform the author's team of the main positions and motivation for bringing to Parliament the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Improving the Enforcement of Excise Taxation in Separate Trade in Petroleum Products (Registration No. 2388a) and to prove the position of the committee. Motivation of the bill is next. Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Tax Code No. 71 of December 28, introduced a statewide excise tax on retail operators, including retail sales of petroleum products. Income from this tax is the source of the formation of local budgets. I would like to point out that on September 1, 2015, more than 4.7 billion dollars, more than a third of which are excise taxes on petroleum products. These costs are, of course, an essential complement to the income of local budgets and to the implementation of local socio-economic programmes. However, as evidenced by the practice, the administration of this tax, the inaccuracy of regulations, the ambiguity of their treatment by taxpayers and fiscal authorities allow individual unethical operators of the oil market to manipulate its payment with a view to minimizing its payment through the specification of the retail market for petroleum products. On the other hand, this has led to the fact that the fiscal authorities view their visions as respects the implementation of the standards we adopted in December, the law. The current version of the Tax Code contains ambiguous definitions, and there is virtually no answer to the question. Whether transactions in the sale of petroleum products should be taxed to legal persons and businesses who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u83	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u84	Which are not end-users and are perhaps for the purpose of self-use, but perhaps for the purpose of use in the provision of services and further integrating the value of such fuel into the cost of its services. Undetermined are the questions of reckoning. We all know that there are vouchers, cards, other forms of cash-free settlement. There is no solution to the question of retail sales of petroleum products, which are formed as small optics.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u85	How much longer do you need to tell me? We'll give you what time it takes, half an hour, half an hour. How much? Two more minutes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u86	It is for the purpose of streamlining these rules that the law proposes to determine the subject of taxation in the course of retail sales of petroleum products by the physical release of petroleum products from ASS in liters irrespective of the form of their leave, irrespective of the intended purpose. And second, the main thing is to set for retail sale of petroleum products a fixed tax rate of 0.042 euros per litre, regardless of sales price, sales form, leave etc. This rate was calculated based on the current ad valorem rate of 5 percent of the price of oil products for ASA and the exchange rate for today. The adoption of the bill will ensure that administration is simplified, that all RROs can be programmed, and that special complexes used in autofuel complexes can be programmed and that corruption in this area reduced. We have today some oil products networks that don't pay retail excise duties on oil products, manipulating the definition of wholesale sales or anything else. So our goal is to tax the physical leave of each litre from the APC, because this is a point of retail sale of petroleum products. The novels proposed by the bill are proposed to be introduced from 1 in the fourth month, followed by a month in which the law is published, a quarter after publication. This project is fully supported by the Government. The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting supported the bill and recommended that it be adopted as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? No, it's not. We're voting, aren't we? Then, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There's a proposal from the committee that we vote for it as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I ask you clearly and clearly: Is there a need to discuss? Yeah, I heard. Please include two for, two for against, for discussion. Please turn on, press the button (so you have on board), and you are given the word by writing through an electronic register. Please sign in. Kolgan's Helen Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u88	Please pass to Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u89	I'll remind my colleagues that when the budget was formed in 2015, the government offered excises on cigarettes, on alcohol and on oil products, which allowed today to fill local budgets with overruns of 30-40 percent. We're not talking about it for some reason, but today, actually, these taxes are giving the village, the city of district importance, the city of district importance, the opportunity to make roads, the lighting, the gasification. And it is this tax that has made it possible for local councils today to really be decentralized. As far as the bill is concerned. What is he talking about? The fact that we're actually going to be out of a litre of any fuel, of diesel, of 95 gasoline, and so on, paying just 1 bracelet. So no matter what the price of gasoline today is -- 25 bucks or 18 bucks or 30 dollars -- the tax rate is actually going to be one bracelet. It is not clear why this is being done. Because at my point of view and at the fractional point of view, 5 percent is the optimal rate for this type of excise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u90	Thank you. Please, Kurilo Vitali Seminovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u91	I ask you to give the floor to Deputy Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u92	Please, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u93	Dear friends, I'm addressing the People's Front. This law makes it clear and clear that it has been splintered from taxpayers to city budgets. It's waste away from the incomprehensible notion of "on your own needs," and now 30 percent buys light oil products for their own needs and implements them without any excise duty at all. So please support this bill. It was supported by virtually all the city heads who are in Ukraine, which provide additional funds to city budgets, rather than dragging them into the shadows. I ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u94	Thank you. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, what this bill actually refers to. In this bill, it is suggested that the tax should be further adjusted to the tax imposed last December, an excise tax on the retail sale of alcoholic beverages. In addition, I want to introduce an appropriate excise tax on petroleum products, including a fuel of 0.42 euros per liter. In fact, it's an increase in tax burden, it's not going to go against the unsolicited, it's going to go against the retail sales of petroleum products, it's actually an extra workload on business, and it's actually going to lead to extra pressure on people who are going to have to pay higher rates and higher fuel prices when they charge their cars. Because the tax burden is on them. What is involved in protecting the interests of local budgets? Dear coalitionists, you have also voted for amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is equivalent to 25 percent of the tax on the income of individuals you take to the state budget. You're the one who's robbing this local budget, and then you're going to want to patch up the corresponding holes by introducing a new tax burden. You don't have to fool people. You've actually drained the local budgets, taken the financial base, and then you're talking about supporting what needs to be supported by the heads of local and local councils. There is a need for a fundamental tax reform that would reduce tax burden, because business is now in a very terrible state, as are the simple people who are forced to pay and the military community who are forced to pay taxes on the income of individuals from pensions, and these are issues that need to be addressed, not the questions raised in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u96	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u97	Thank you very much. When we were in opposition to the criminal authorities, we talked about how much money they had stolen. I can't understand it, a new government has come, we're getting an increase in the budget, we're getting an improvement in the budget, and we're not getting enough money for cities to make roads and develop their cities. I would like to point out that these bills, which we have adopted with regard to the introduction of additional excise duties on retail prices, close in December this year. Why? Because since January 1, 2016, the economic part of the European Association of Ukraine has entered. And under Directives 94 and 96, we are prohibited from introducing additional taxes on retail trade, including petroleum products. We find this bill unacceptable and point out once again that the Party of the Fatherland does not vote on any bill until laws have been put in place that create the protection and conditions of the lives of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u98	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, George, please turn on the word. You can come from the rostrum. It'll be quicker. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u99	Comrades, good afternoon! There's an agreed amendment. I want to read it under the transcript because there are some differences in the realisation of petroleum products and in the fraction of the realisation of tobacco and alcohol. So there is this proposal: paragraph 2.1.212 in the second paragraph, after the words: "implementation by operators of retail trade in excise goods: sale, disposal, physical leave for operators of retail beer, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, tobacco and industrial substitutes of tobacco" to complement the words in the previous edition, "directly to citizens and other end consumers for their personal non-commercial use." This applies, not to fuel, but to tobacco and alcohol. A special law on the regulation of the government’s circulation of tobacco and alcohol defines what retail sales are and what wholesale sales are. Because there is no such thing as a retailer. The subject sells both in splinter and opt, we need to determine the operation. And the request to vote the amendment, taking into account what they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u100	Thank you. We'll put a motion for a vote. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yuri Lewchenko. And the closing word will be given to Yuzanini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The adoption of this bill will lead to a more fuel - efficient approach. Therefore, the Radical Party faction does not explicitly support the bill. We insist that taxes should be reduced, not raised or introduced, first of all, into a payroll fund. People today are unable to pay more for gasoline, utilities, medicines in pharmacies, and so forth. That's why we don't support any bill that leads to an increase in the cost of services or goods. On the contrary, we insist on tax exemption on the added value of selling fuel-oil materials that will allow their cost to be reduced. Similarly, we insist on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Maydan tariff and the adoption of laws that will make it possible to actually reduce the cost of residential services. People don't have the money to pay for a utility station, for expensive gasoline, for expensive drugs. That's why we're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u102	Please, Yuri Lewchenko one minute. The closing word is "Juganina." And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u103	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, a lot of the right things have been said about the negatives of this bill. It also stated that he was correcting some mistakes. Well, I'm not going to touch on correction right now, although, for example, it should be noted that the proposed changes will make accounting more difficult, as they introduce a new criterion for the existence of a tax liability, the so-called accounting date. And what the accounting document means is it's not clear whether it's a check, whether it's an expense note, an act, or something. Well, it's not prescribed. But in addition, the real problem with this bill is that it proposes a socially fair rate of taxation as a percentage to replace it with an unfair social standard in an absolute way. Any absolute taxation in absolute figures, not percentages, is socially unfair, especially when it comes to the sphere of sales of petroleum products that depend on the fluctuation of the course, I remind you which price can change every day. Of course, this can be the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u104	Thank you. Please, one minute, Eugene. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, especially members of the Tax and Customs Committee! You voted in favour of adopting the bill as a basis and in general, realizing that we're replacing the rate 5 with the rate fixed in the euro. You know that the principal excise is also counted from the euro, from the euro to the first number of each quarter? This is convenient for both the sector and the administration. Did you know that the 5 percent standard can't be administered by our control body at all? The bill has been drafted with market participants. They offered to regulate themselves in such a way that there would not be so many claims from the controlling body. So please do not speculate on any price rises. They have already been raised by 5 percent since December last year, and the rate applied to the euro is the same as the one that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u106	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u107	Which provides a technical opportunity to even put in a check that will appear. Each customer will realize that his check will reflect one bracelet that is paid as a excise duty in the local budgets. Obviously it's the very transparent mechanism, and you've now driven it to such a state that it's said that the price rise is triggering the bill. Please forget about all the populist challenges that we now have in society and at least settle these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have had a very active and lively discussion, we have several important decisions. I ask you to proceed to the vote now. Please enter the National Assembly Hall, which is located in the towers. I continue our work for 15 minutes under the Rules, and it is important for us to make some important decisions, a few important votes. I ask you to concentrate, get into the hall that's in the towers and prepare for the vote. So first, I'm going to put a proposal from the committee to the vote. I am betting on the signal vote to accept the proposal as a basis and as a whole the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. Based on the base, that's the signal, Oleg, that's the signal. Ukraine’s Tax Code on Improving Excise Tax Processing, No. 2388a This is a base vote, please. [[17:52:35.]] For-153 153 for. There are not enough votes. We have two ways. One is either to postpone a decision from previously discussed or to send a committee to work on it. Your offer, please turn on the microphone for your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u109	I'm in the interest of justice to prove to my colleagues on the committee that they were now engaged in populism in the hall, and I suggest we re-examine the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the committee head's proposal and to support the proposal to be sent to the committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal, the committee head, the vote, we'll check the mobilization, please vote. Please vote for this proposal. Signal vote. Vote, please. [[17:53:42]] For 197 The decision is not made. We don't have enough votes, so we're going to put it down for a vote, for the question discussed earlier. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We, for the time being, have no votes under this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Nasalik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u111	Good day again, everyone. Well, to be honest, these populists have already got it. They can play tents under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, they've raised their own rent, and now they're fighting to take it down. Today on this bill, the local budgets, I want to remind you from a transparent split, a clear split, lost about 3.5 billion dollars. And these are the people who have no idea of the economy, but they burn up in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have two very important decisions. One is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making of the current plenary week's bill package. And the second is to make a decision on the issue of sport corruption discussed. That's two. One discussion has already taken place, one in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize now so that we can vote on those bills. So first of all, as we have our agenda, I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making of the current plenary week of those bills that are in each hand in the agenda. I'm going to count 3155, 3159, 3154, 3171, 3370, 3224, 3325, 3231. Ouch! No! No! 3325. So these are the bills that we need to include right now. Also, 3231, 3106, 3177, 3207, 3225, 3164, 3196, 3197, 3191 and 3153. Among them are bills that are important for the visa-free liberalisation plan. I ask you to support the proposal to include them in the agenda and to make decisions for the current plenary week. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And first, I'm going to put a motion for a vote. Anyone who supports this proposal for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, we're voting. We're backing it up. Vote. Signal vote. [[17:57:13]] For-167 Dear colleagues, among those bills are the bills needed to liberalize the visa-free regime. I'm asking you to focus and support again. I'm asking for another vote. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Once again, I ask you to vote one last time. Please vote. [[17:57:52]] For 168 The decision is not taken. There are no votes needed. And, dear fellows, I'm going to put the next one in order of the day. This is a solution to the question under discussion. I urge you, the draft Law on the Prevention of the Effects on the Results of Official Sports Competitions of Corruption Offences. We discussed it in the hall. Everyone was for him, there were no warnings. But there was no needed number of votes. So the question is already under discussion. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. It doesn't need to be discussed, it just needs to be made. I ask colleagues who are in the pools to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, first the signal vote. I am betting on a bill to prevent the impact on the results of the official sports competitions of corruption offences No. 2243a. Signal vote, please stand by. Please vote, we decide. [[17:59:16]] For 242 The whole room focused on fighting corruption in sports. Which is why I'm asking everyone to get ready again. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Preventing the Effects of Official Sports Competitions of Corruption Offences No. 2243a. Sir, Pavelko, based, right? On the basis and in general? Based on the base. Excuse me? On the basis and in general? On the basis and in general. Please vote, we decide. We will support the fight against corruption in sport! Vote, Your Honor, please. [[18:00:09]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill and welcome to the committee that prepared the decision On a positive, good note, we end our difficult but productive day today. Welcome to all the bills you've adopted. And at that evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare it closed. Our next meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. here in this room. I ask everyone to be disciplined so that we can start productive work on the bill from 10 o'clock. Thank you. Good-bye.
