ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We're starting our morning session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Hall, prepare for the registration, and begin the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, fellow nationals, take your seats, start our work. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:04:13]] 259. People's deputies. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. I'd like to inform you, dear colleagues. Well, first of all, I want to thank everyone for yesterday, which we worked hard enough to make important decisions. I think if we worked this way every day in plenary, we would have different results. Although I would like to point out that we actually made important decisions yesterday. And that means that we can consolidate in order to work as productively as possible. But I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that yesterday, during the debate on the Local Elections Act, I had a tripartite international high-level conversation with the Federal Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, and the President of France, Mr. Holland, where we discussed the status of reform issues, particularly those related to constitutional reform, issues related to the decentralization of power, the implementation of the Minsk Treaties in the framework of constitutional reform. And I would like to emphasize that yesterday the leaders of the two countries were given a high evaluation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the results of our joint work. And it also focuses on the importance of decentralisation of power in Ukraine, as well as the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. I thanked Parliament on behalf of myself, personally for Ukraine's full support and the path of reform, and at such an extremely difficult time. Dear colleagues, today's birthday is celebrated by our colleagues. Let's prepare and welcome. Arthur Leonidovich of the Palace with birthday. Arthur Leonidovich, welcome. [[Applause]] And also Vitalia Ivanovich Gudzenka. Welcome, my dear fellow. Welcome, Vitaly. [[Applause]] Good health, success, and well - being. Dear colleagues, as always, we have speeches by the national deputies on Wednesday. So I'm asking everyone to prepare to register for the performances, honourable national deputies, because they're 30 minutes away. Everyone, please prepare for registration. Let's register for the National MPs' records, please. We have, more specifically, recorded for the performance, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national MPs and we continue to work according to the order of the day, distinguished colleagues. Thank you, the recording is done. Please, People's Front, Svetlana Mikhailna Vojciekhovska. Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, People's Front. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! We all know that Ukraine is in difficult conditions, and the annexation of Crimea, the military actions of Russian-supported terrorists in eastern Ukraine make it difficult to develop Ukraine, difficult to develop the Ukrainian economy. As a result of such military and terrorist attacks on Ukraine, the Ukrainian economy lost more than 20 percent of GDP. As the Ukrainian Parliament and government, we are doing everything we can to win. To win this war against the Ukrainian people, against Ukrainian freedom. But we all understand very well that in addition to military victories, we need to win the economy, build our society, build free market relations in Ukraine and in terms of Ukrainian business and Ukrainian government. This is the problem that the coalition and the government are working on today. Today’s visit by the Ukrainian government to the United States, Canada, and later to Great Britain is aimed at solving these problems. I would like to inform Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament of the successful visit of the Ukrainian government delegation to the United States, Canada. You know what happened and what happens is the first Ukrainian-American business forum where the Ukrainian government managed to get a serious understanding and support from investors in the Ukrainian economy. Yes, it's just a first step, but it's an extremely important step. As a result of this visit, Ukraine received positive economic support. The United States appreciated very highly the reforms undertaken in the energy field and expressed support for the government's development and diversification of energy sources. Ukraine has also signed a free trade zone with Canada that will enable us to develop our trade relations, and Canada has opened more than 90 percent of its market for Ukraine. Ukraine has also signed or completed the Agreement on the Sharing of Airspace with the United States of America yesterday, which will have a major impact on the development of civil aviation and will cost this market in Ukraine what it will have.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u3	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u4	I would like to conclude by saying that the government of Ukraine is doing its job, doing it successfully. But I would like to point out that as members of Parliament, we would first have had one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u5	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u6	To thank our partners who support Ukraine and to do their job this week: to support the laws needed to reform Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u7	Thank you. Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich conveys the word of Dunaev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u8	Honourable Presidency, distinguished people's deputies! I'd like to ask you, what did you do for people in power in 500 days? During these days, the government has promised an endless peace, an end to the crisis, a fight against corruption and a favourable investment climate, decentralization, and a European future. In reality, 500 days of the new authorities have brought prolonged military conflict and unresolved problems to the people. The economic crisis continues to grow, reforms are not implemented, and there are no results in the fight against corruption. Success in decentralization is evident only in government offices. In these 500 days, the population has become much poorer. First, you adopt laws that make people's well-being worse, then you try to overcome the difficulties you have created, and then you decide them for the greatest achievement. In just one and a half years of government and coalition work on all parameters of Ukraine, the economy has reached a pre-declared state of affairs. Once again, Minfin stands before the International Monetary Fund with an extended hand, and the Government and the coalition do nothing to revive the industry. The situation on Donbass is not changing. Restoration is not systematically carried out, the 300 million bracelets promised by the authorities have not been or have not been. There is constant information on the provision by dozens of countries of huge funds for the reconstruction of the infrastructure and industry of the destroyed Donbass. Regrettably, people think for themselves how to get out of this situation. Last week a new production of energy-saving technologies was opened in the ATO zone at the Lysician Glass Plant Proletaria. The labour force raises and modernizes the production that has suffered since the fighting, creating jobs at such a difficult time. In addition, power has not allocated a penny to support this initiative. All the facilities of our country's social infrastructure are needed for the production of this enterprise. The implementation of the energy saving programme will help to preserve our economy's enormous resources that can be channelled towards the development of the country. Many enterprises in the Luhansk region are hampered by the energy blockade. There is a lack of capacity to resume production. There is no support from the Government. There is no fight against corruption. Smuggling destroys the domestic manufacturer. There is the largest outflow of scientific capacity and skilled workers to other countries. People need to give work and feel the protection of a domestic producer as a priority for national interests. People should feel like Ukrainian citizens rather than be forgotten and deleted from the lists. Yesterday's vote in favour of the Electoral Act showed that 1 million 382,000 temporary displaced persons would not be able to participate in the local elections and give their assessment to all political forces. The Coalition continues to ignore the Minsk Agreements, which the world public insists on implementing. The current authorities must learn to respect the Constitution of Ukraine rather than to copy it. The opposition bloc requires the President and Parliament to consider the political responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u9	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u10	Consider bills to restore the country's economy in order to give people jobs. We intend to continue to fight for peace and well-being in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u11	Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka. He's giving the word to Mikola Tomenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I will begin a few words from a sad painful story. You know what the President's trip is today. And I'm surprised to hear that it turned out that maybe one police chief needs to be removed and maybe one of the heads of the district administration -- and it's all going to work out. I want to inform you that the Carpathians, not only the Carpathians, are a unique region, where all the authorities (tax, customs, B.S.A., the Public Prosecutor's Office) worked together and in the field the double-counter system worked. Not only is the forest illegally exported, but the forest is used as a means of smuggling other things. Cigarettes, for example, include others. True, my colleagues say that there are such intelligents in both the Cherniewsky region and other areas. So I think that if we're talking about ordermaking, it means that not only the head of the district administration, the chief of the police, but also the head of the security service, who is said to be the celebration of one of our national deputies, but also the prosecutor, and other officials who caused the situation. Now, a few words about yesterday's American affairs. I'm also happy with everyone that the vice president of the United States has praised our few ministers, that they work properly, well, I get it, from the point of view of American interests. And I also look forward to our Minister of Economy and Minister of Finance as they help the American economy. I'd like them to help the Ukrainian economy. I've just, with Deputy Prime Minister Voschevsky, convinced the EBRD that the Mineconomy Initiative to corporateize and almost privatize the Chernobyl nuclear -- that's deafness and stupidity, that it's some sort of inadequacy from Mineconomy. Yesterday I convinced the rectors that it wasn't the Ministry of Education, but Minfine and Mineconomy define the government's orders. We have the president and the government saying we need to study foreign languages, we have the Mineconomy, Minfin has made a government order for the linguistic university -- 23 masters from foreign languages. We've practically stopped the government procurement in the fisheries sector, in the forest sector that we're reforming here, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have a question: is this how they work for the American economy or do they work for the Ukrainian economy? So I hope that our ministers should be tested for what they do for Ukraine. And I hope that the ministers will finally start meeting, not the American government, but the Ukrainian people, and they will hear that the Ukrainian people are thinking about them, and they will start working for Ukraine. If that is not the case, it is obvious that such a government should be changed, not going to America as another political party traveled to Russia. Nothing has changed. Because Basil Simonenko taught us, I want to remind you once again, "Let the Americans and the Russians keep quiet when I talk to you." To Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Yegor, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u14	I think it's very appropriate to thank all the parliamentarians who voted yesterday for the important anti-corruption laws, from the Law on the Discovery of All Property to the Law on the Photofixion of Road Violations. Now the main thing is to make these laws work. First. The Self-Help faction calls on Parliament's leadership to investigate in what way, after the approval of the Local Elections Act instead of the downsizing of members of the local councils for which we voted yesterday, there is information on the Supreme Council's expansion of local councils, even compared to those scattered local councils that are now. This must be investigated immediately without leading to sin, punishing those responsible, and correcting them. The second and the main. Colleagues, we have no right to complete our work until we, as a Parliament, are able to correct the terrible trouble in the Attorney General's Office. Yesterday journalist Dmitry Gnap explained to the whole country why Vladimir Guzir covered the scheme with "BRSM". I'll remind you, this scheme was created by Minister Janukovič Stavitsky, who fled with Janukovic, but the scheme continues. And now we have a responsibility. Mr. Guzir has a joint house, in fact, a business with those who barf this fuel, barf and barf. I'm talking to all the parliamentarians who didn't go to Andri Lozov and Oleg Laszek and didn't sign a statement of mistrust to the Attorney General. We have no right to evade responsibility, you have no right to cover up corruption that is evident throughout the country. We're talking to the President of Ukraine: let's stop playing the reconciliation game. We cannot reconcile in the Attorney General’s Office the bribers and those who have uncovered them with those who investigate their crimes. Let's stop playing the game when you're assigning the Attorney Generals who are "breathing" corruption, and then we're putting them out with difficulties. Mr. President, take responsibility as President of Ukraine and appoint a Attorney General to whom we will all be proud, to whom the whole country will show what law enforcement means! Let's do this together: Parliament – its part of the job, the President – is part of the job. Then we will be responsible authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u15	Matvienkov gives the word to Dobjenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u16	Hello, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, on 15 July, and for two weeks on the neck of the Ukrainian business, an active government coalition was attacked by a so-called VAT drowning. This is an electronic administration system that actually depreciates our national economy. This system is based on VAT prepayment. You don't have any money, so you can't register a tax receipt, and as a seller, you can't give it to suppliers. In fact, the taxpayer is in the worst position, and in the system of advance income tax contributions, he is forced to pay a profit tax in advance. When introducing an electronic administration system, it is actually forced to finance the State. Why? Because the special accounts of the electronic administration system were introduced in the worst possible forms. This electronic administration system has no parallels in the world. Moreover, in those countries where it was introduced, it had actually been abolished. We are in a state of total decline in economic production. The inflation rate is 128 per cent. This year, the Ministry of Finance predicts that the inflation rate will be 140 per cent. Dear colleagues, this has been the highest since the year 96, since the difficult 1990s, where the economic situation of the country has remained. I mean, there's a lot of methodological inaccuracies and inaccuracies in the system, in a formula that defines and uses tax consignment notes. We insist that the enterprises are actually behind this electronic administration system because they have no working capital because there are delays in delivery payments. They don't have a place to take that money, they actually did. I was very much directed by taxpayers of small, medium-sized, large enterprises to either extend the system of state-of-the-art treatment or actually abolish this system of electronic administration of VAT. The Opposition Block faction insists that if we do not have and lack political power, it is wise to acknowledge the incompetence of this system, at least to extend this test regime of the electronic administration system, as taxpayers often do. They fall into a trap because many of the provisions are incorrect and the formula is imperfect. However, by introducing an electronic VAT administration system, we are abandoning the automatic VAT recovery system. In fact, taxpayers should receive their legal VAT in accordance with the old schemes by paying the corresponding taxes. Recently, the Government has registered bill 2175, which provides them with an additional resource for VAT reimbursement of 12 billion grevens. Don't you have to send that money to index pensions? We're all yelling that there's no money, that's a bad situation. But for some.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u17	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u18	But for some directions, we find this resource. The opposition bloc has registered Bills 2175-1 and 2323a, on the basis of which we propose these resources to be sent to the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly Andriyovich gives the floor to national deputy Igor Guzu. Please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u20	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends! On behalf of the faction, I would like to emphasize the issue of smuggling. Yesterday we submitted and invite colleagues who are ready to fight this tumor! We've registered an interfractional merger called Contraband-Stop. Of all the factions, people have entered. We need to unite. Some laugh in this room. But it's not funny in Muchachev, in the people of Muchachev and in the Carpathians! Because the events that took place in Mukachev, their nature lies in smuggling. In this room, ask all the factions that there is a secret that every customs office is corrupt so much that you can show how much money they carry! And smugglers and those who work there. Sadly, in a year and a half, we were not able to break this situation together! It didn't work! And unfortunately, Mr. Nasirov does not break this situation, Mr. Nasirov, and these signals come from many customs, and he continues to put the people of Kaletnik! He doesn't give the deputy's mandate for unofficial information, he wants to put people on duty and return to his post by September. It's a disgrace! We can't let that happen. The other one. There are several ways to stop smuggling. The People's Front MPs, the Maydan Self-Defense Group, have proposed criminalizing 201 articles to criminalize smuggling. If we don't do it, we won't take out the smuggling. That's the first one. The other one. What Arsenius Petrovich sent to free the customs office in Zakarpat is good. But that's not enough. If we don't release 100 percent, as it is now with the Patrol Service, all customs officers, there will never be order. Dismissed by a hundred percent. To recruit new people at the competition, from the smallest to the biggest. And again. If we, the national MPs, don't get involved in solving these problems, we don't help curb this smuggling, believe me, the Mukachev situation will happen again. I represent a district where there are two customs posts of Yagodin and Stytilug, this is a Volin customs office. I'll tell you, people are in a mood -- and because customs are a mess, and because there's no order, people are ready for many moments. In view of the worsening economic situation, that pack of cigarettes is a survival for someone, and people watch the echelons go, and they see that nothing is done, and they are being dragged for that pack of cigarettes. So, colleagues, I urge all of us to unite and fight smuggling because Mukachev will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Fir's, "Peter Prashenko's Block," passes the word to Gerasim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, let me inform you that from July 5 to 9, the annual session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly took place in Helsinki. She was very important. Why? Because it was during this session that documents were accepted, which for the next 12 months would be a guide to many countries’ parliamentarians. And what's very important to Ukraine is that during the session, the majority of the votes were supported by two resolutions that directly relate to events in our country. First. With 96 votes against, only 7 against, a resolution was adopted that clearly condemns Russian aggression in Ukraine. A resolution was also adopted calling for the release of Hope Savechenko, Oleg Sentsov, and other Ukrainian citizens who are illegally held in the Russian Federation today. With regard to the resolution, which was created by the Ukrainian delegation along with the Canadian delegation, in addition to the fact that it is very clear again that the actions of the Russian Federation in Ukraine are an act of military aggression, the Parliamentary Assembly also requires Russia to stop destabilizing Ukraine, stop supplying ammunition and weapons to terrorists and stop sending its troops to Ukraine, and this is very important. Besides, I want to say that, too, and it's very important, the unforgotten Crimea. And it is very clear in this resolution that the referendum held on March 16, 2014 in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol has no legal power. Parliamentarians were reminded of the growing violation of citizens’ rights in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Parliamentarians were also given special attention to official statements by officials of the Russian Federation regarding the possibility of nuclear weapons being deployed in the Crimea. In addition, I would like to express my great thanks to our entire delegation, especially Hanni Hopko, Igor Popov, Sergey Vistok, Ostap Semerak, Mustafa Najem, Natalia Agafonov. I would also like to express my great gratitude to the Embassy of Ukraine in Finland and to Ambassador Andri Olefirov. I would like to express my special thanks to our Ambassador to the OSCE, Igor Prokopchuk, as well as to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers at the Supreme Council, Sergey Shevchuk, who have been very helpful in helping us to do so. And besides, there's another very important information. Today, there is an OSCE representative in Ukraine from a gender perspective, Melanie Verver. And I want to prove to you right now that it's very serious, and it's very positive about what was adopted yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u23	Please. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u24	About women on board, I mean 30 percent of women on board. And I can tell you right away, there's a lot of meetings in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u25	Ten more seconds, but please don't go over the rules anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u26	During so many meetings in Helsinki, we were asked: What about women, how about a gender question? Today we have a very clear answer: We have decided that, and we are on the right track. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u27	Mr. Barbinenko gives the floor to Deputy Shipk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u28	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district, Rebirth Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you've all had such an appeal that people stand before the Supreme Council and want to protect the most important things they have -- their family, their family. We, the interfractional association "For Culture, Spirituality, Morality and Health", which includes various deputies from different factions, say that we will not let our traditional Ukrainian family in which order, peace, faith, culture of our people and faith in God prevail. We support you, men of honor! And now let's get back to health. Finally, in seven months the Ministry of Health’s work in Parliament had three bills. It's after the Minister's release decree, after we asked him to show us his work. What are these bills that they give people? That's the question I want to ask. But I went to the nearest pharmacy last night and saw how the authorities cared about people. And you can see that pensioners can buy for their unindexed pensions, and you can see how sick people choose drugs only for the costs they have. Dear colleagues, I'll get you some numbers. Since 2012, the most widely distributed hypertensive drug has cost $3.5, and today its holiday price is $5.5, and in the bracelet it's 30 to 150. I notice that the price went up not only in bracelets but also in dollars. Such examples are thousands. Drug prices have increased, no one controls them, not just the price, but the quality. Since 2012, there has been a project on the cost of medicines for hypertensives. More than 3 million people received permanent treatment, and the number of strokes in Ukraine declined significantly. Drug manufacturers were lowering prices to get into government programs, these are guaranteed sales! And the ministry one day took and didn't continue the hypertonia project, although these were the first steps to lower prices, to create real competition in the drug market, they were the first steps towards insurance medicine. If the Ministry doesn't know how to lower drug prices, how to make clear rules on the pharmaceutical market, and at least ask those who know. What should we do? First, immediately introduce cost-reimbursement programmes for the population by major disease groups in Ukraine. Second, there should be reference, comparable prices for drugs. The price of a drug in Ukraine cannot be higher than in Europe. Third: a legislative framework is needed. And the draft of the new Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is already in Parliament. I demand that today there is a draft decree for the release of Minister Kvetashvili, who is registered, I demand that Vladimir Borisovich, you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, make this project, consider it now in Parliament and evaluate the work of the health system in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front, passes the word to Unguran. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome everyone with an old Ukrainian greeting: "Glory to Jesus Christ! "Always glory!" I'd like to go on with the subject that was just echoing from the rostrum. In fact, right now on the street, on the Constitution Square near the Supreme Council -- by the way, our area before Parliament is called the "Statute Square," -- there are people who are actually concerned about those initiatives that go to change in the Constitution. Unfortunately, along with the beautiful, very useful initiatives on decentralization, about increasing the role of local communities in changing and improving the functioning of our entire large government apparatus, there is also an effort to do bad for Ukraine. The point is that some lobbyist groups want to remove from the Constitution article 51, which clearly states that marriage is a union of men and women, and this is very important to us Ukrainians. Instead, it is an effort to insert such an article into itself that the right to a marriage has different people, that each marriage has equal rights and obligations, in fact to wash away from the Constitution our important spiritual Christian position, that it is a marriage, a union between a husband and a wife. Many countries, unfortunately, both in Latin America and in Europe have passed the path of legalizing same-sex relations precisely because of the fact that the family is a union of men and women. This is what God’s Word says, the very nature, the very being. Therefore, we ask and urge all members of the Constitutional Commission who work among the national deputies and other honourable members of the Constitutional Commission not to allow these changes. We ask not to introduce into the Constitution a norm on any sexual orientation or anything else, we don't even have such definitions in our legislation so that we don't open doors, open doors to legalize these terrible sins. And I think that together we can make our Constitution much better if we preserve our spiritual Christian foundations in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u31	Thank you. And the last final performance, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u32	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Wage index, pensions, scholarships, not in winter, but right now, it's not a radical party issue, it's an urgent need for life. I'll explain to you why. First, because consumer demand for households, what people buy in stores is 70 percent of the economy of Ukraine. So today, this is a real step that will allow us to move from economic downturn, from economic downturn, from economic downturn. From the poverty of citizens to the reconstruction of Ukraine's economy. Without wage, subsidies and pensions, the recovery of economic growth is impossible today. It's at least a minimum social justice. Because look, when prices went up by an average of 60 percent, that's food, that's medicine, that's clothing; when tariffs went up by 2.5 times 3 times -- do we have the right not to have at least a partial index of wage increases and pensions today? We don't have that right. We are simply obliged to do so. Dear colleagues, when I'm told that there is no source for such an indexation, it's an absolute lie. There was a coalition council a few weeks ago. And it was a very clear task for the government: because of that surplus of the government budget, because of the excess of revenue over government budget expenditure, it was a month's schedule for the amounts to be allocated to wage and pension index. That's why we're asking this week after our government returns from Washington to report on this issue. We have to put a dot on this issue in the summer. There's nowhere to put it. The second very important source at which this can be done is the restructuring of the government debt that the Radical Party initiated more than six months ago. And today you know that Finance Minister Jaresko is leading a very tough professional negotiation. These costs should be aimed at improving the social well - being of citizens and also at developing Ukrainian production and industry. Those who say that such index costs will be settled somewhere in Spain, people will go to rest or buy cars, it's totally stupid. On salary in a country in less than $180 a month, people will simply be able to afford basic food, buy medicine, buy clothes, teach their children. So this is the step that we have to take right now -- to index wages and pensions as the first step that will give the initial impetus to restoring the growth of the Ukrainian economy. And the next step is to create a parallel one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u33	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u34	For small and medium-sized businesses. Today, we insist that the Tax Committee be governed by the Law on the Elimination of Electronic Conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speaking time of the deputies is exhausted. But the presidency came up with a call from two MP factions: Self-help and Fatherhood, with a break, but they're ready to change the three-minute break from the rostrum according to the Rules. And I give the word of Andrew Cosemiakin. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u36	Thank you. Good afternoon. Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Head, colleagues and the entire Ukrainian people! Today is an important day for Ukraine. Today, the new Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, which was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 14, 14, which I welcome. Ukraine's been going to see him since the '95s. From the moment she made a commitment to the Council of Europe that the Ukrainian Prosecutor’s Office would meet European standards. And this is the day, and I want to welcome you all again. Today, the prosecution will act exclusively in the field of criminal justice and will be deprived of the authority to engage in civil, commercial, administrative, and other matters. Today the old Procurator's Act, a Soviet law that was passed back in '91, is no longer valid. And with it, it's finally going into the past, a closed system of the old Soviet-type prosecutor's office, extremely centralized with a clearly defined punitive function. A prosecutor's office that reflects a non-democratic past and is not compatible with European standards. As of today, honourable national deputies, the prosecution has completely lost the so - called function of general oversight. A transparent and competitive procedure for admission to the employment of prosecutors is introduced. Prosecutors are given new guarantees of independence, independent of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. You know, before the Legislative Security Committee there was a choice: or going back on the road that we were told all the time, even after Maidan, even when we had our authority to pause, we had to delay a little bit, we had to give it a chance to take general supervision by 2017, to steal a little bit, and to break it up, we didn't go there. We've run this bill the way it is. Yes, critics will say that he is not perfect, but there is an opportunity to correct him. And please, people's deputies, I invite you to this job. Despite all the obstacles to the adoption of this law by, unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office and the reformers of the former President Janukovic's Administration, the committee was able to prepare a real European Prosecutor's Act that took effect today. Next step. Disenfranchise the D.A.'s office, create the State Bureau of Investigation, which is now in the order of the day. And last but not least, colleagues. I believe that new prosecutors, uninvolved young people will come to the prosecutor's office and create, will turn this body into a real law enforcement body that we will no longer be ashamed of. That's the first one. And the second. Instead of walking around the hall collecting signatures, I think each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u37	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u38	Every decent citizen and law enforcement officer should say, "The reform has begun. It's an honor. I'm in charge of this structure and I'm leaving."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u39	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u40	I'm here to collect signatures. That's why I welcome everyone once again the entry into force of the Procurator's Act, and I hope that today it will work in a new way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u41	Thank you. At that time, two more factions were required to announce the break. And they're ready to replace this break for the performance. A statement from two factions is the Radical Party and the People's Front. And they're handing over the authority to speak from two factions of the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yes, Your Honor, today is a truly historic day, as my colleague Andrew Cosemyakin said: a new Law on Prosecutor's Office has become effective. A law that enables the creation in Ukraine of a European, modern, unprofitable prosecutor’s office. But he continues to be the head of the Attorney General’s Office, Shokin, who is a model of corruption in our country. And that's why today symbolically, on July 15, when the new Procurator's Law came into force, I am addressing my fellow MPs, those who have not yet signed the draft decision on discharge from the position of Attorney General Shokin, please sign the draft decree. I'm calling on my esteemed colleagues from the Petra Poroshenko Faction, the Honorable Fellows of the People's Front, the Honorable Fellows of the Fatherland faction: sign under the project, allow for the renewal of the Attorney-General's Office, allow the Attorney-General's Office to be led by a new man who has no connection with corruption, who does not cover his intercessors or appointees who have been detained on bribes that have been detained for corruption. That is why we demand the immediate resignation of Attorney General Shokin. I appeal to the deputies to sign under the draft decree. Collected 99 signatures for this minute. I hope we're doing the same for today and tomorrow we'll collect 150 signatures. We insist that Parliament immediately consider the draft of the Shockin Liberation Order from the Attorney General's office. We, Self-Help yesterday, called for Shockin to come here. You can't hear us, Parliament's leadership. The Radical Party is calling for Shockin to come here, reporting on why corrupt people who are being held for bribes in the Attorney General's Office are not answering why they're still not being released, why they're violating criminal cases against those who are prosecuting corruption in the Attorney General's Office. Unfortunately, Parliament's leadership can't hear us, we have the last and the most effective means of parliamentary influence, is to block the rostrum. That is why I am officially addressing Parliament's leadership, immediately calling on the Supreme Council of the Attorney-General to provide information on the investigation of corruption crimes in the Attorney-General's Office. If the Attorney General doesn't stand in the Chamber of Parliament in the near future, we'll have to block it until the prosecutor is here and until we can put him away. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. I want to say on behalf of Parliament's leadership, we can hear you. And you, as coalition coordinator, with 300 crutches under you, can do anything in Parliament, and we will always support you, and we will always be helping you in your difficult, responsible work for the benefit of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we've passed and spoken to the MPs, and we've exhausted our factions limit with breaks and performances. And we move on to the order of the day, according to the Rules. And in our agenda, there's a cluster of issues -- ratifications that are very important -- many of them have defined terms. And now we're going to the first draft of the ratification 0037 -- this is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Legal Status of the Regional Environmental Centre for Central and Eastern Europe. And there's a request from the authors that we might be able to consider it in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, Your Honor. Voting, supporting. [[10:51:58]] For-140. The decision is not taken. The MPs have not been sufficiently mobilized, and not all have made it. Not everyone understood the responsibility of the vote. And so once again, I'm going to put a motion for a vote to consider, in short, the Ratification Act 0037. I ask you to support the reduced procedure and please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:52:37]] For-164 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the deputy minister of ecology and natural resources of Kurikin Sergey Ivanovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Legal Status of the Regional Environmental Centre for Central and Eastern European Countries. The Regional Environmental Center is an international organization founded in 1990. Its co-founders are the European Commission, the United States and the Government of Hungary. Since then, this organization has been productive in the region. The Statute of the REC was signed today by 32 countries, including Ukraine. But in order to create a full legal basis for the further activity of the REC in Ukraine and the full participation of Ukraine in its activities, it is necessary to ratify the said agreement, since the legal basis is both a statute and a treaty on legal status. I would like to point out that in the area of REC, it helps to solve practical environmental problems, collect and generalize environmental information, promote intersectoral cooperation. And I would also like to highlight the provision of direct organizational and financial assistance. The Statute of the REC was signed in 2012, but since then, unfortunately, we cannot approach the issue of ratifying the said Agreement in order to complete the process of fully integrating Ukraine into this activity. So today we have this opportunity, we have a chance to do this ratification, and we have a qualitatively new stage in our cooperation with this international organization. I would like to point out that the bill was agreed upon without notice by all interested ministries and departments. I'm asking you, national deputies, to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. Now I'll give the floor to the co-rapporteur. But I would like to see that when a coreporter speaks, the secretariat of the Supreme Council has invited all the deputies into the Hall, for in a few minutes there may be a vote. I have a request to all the deputies who are in the towers that are in the dining room, to go up, to the hall, to take up jobs. And I give the floor to the co-reporter, the head of the European Integration Committee Committee, Jurinec Oksani Vasilovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u46	Respectful fellowheads! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting on 1 July 2015 the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Legal Status of the Regional Environmental Centre for Central and Eastern Europe (registration No. 0037, dated 25.06.2015) and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, national MPs, members of the Committee for European Integration, came from the fact that the ratification of the above-mentioned agreement would contribute to the implementation of State policy on further interaction, cooperation in the field of environmental protection with the member States of the Regional Environmental Centre for Central and Eastern Europe. The adoption of the law will allow for the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement. The bill does not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations. Our committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's be honest, is there a need to discuss? There's only one national MP who wants to speak. Let's give him that right. Mikola Tomenko, please, one minute. And please come into the Chamber of Deputies. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Our committee has considered the bill. He's backing it up. I would like to point out that unfortunately, a very important ratification has been considered by the government for almost 10 years. We have no right to look at such documents for such a long time. The second position the committee drew attention to. It is that under this agreement we can get some funding for specific projects in different environmental areas. But instead, we have problems. As we beat up international money, for example, to support the reserves, the home government takes this money out of an absurd land tax. And I, Mr. Andrey, would like to point out once again that we have 1851, where the removal of land tax from the reserves, from universities, from schools, is still pending. And don't give it to me, God. We won't look at it tomorrow. There's going to be a disaster. We have a place in Ternopol, in Umana, where preschools are closed. Because the local authorities have taxed them with land taxes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Once again, I urge all deputies to enter the hall. A vote is about to take place. I'm asking you to take up your jobs as well. Dear colleagues, Mikhail Humil, prepare. My friend Mikhailo Humil, prepare your corner for the vote. I'd like the deputies to come into the hall. Are you ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Legal Status of the Regional Environmental Centre for Central and Eastern Europe, as proposed by the Committee, totalling 0037. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please, we're on our way. [[10:59:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2016 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014 (number 0038). I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider this ratification with a reduced procedure. Please support and please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:00:05]] For 176 Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the address of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Klimkina Pavel Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u50	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I am submitting to your consideration a proposal by the President of Ukraine for ratification (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands to extend until 1 August 2016 the duration of the Treaty on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from 28 July 2014. For us now, a comprehensive and impartial investigation into the tragedy of Malaysian Airlines that resulted from the terrorist attack on July 17, 2014, which led to the death of 298 people. We're conducting an independent criminal investigation into the crash. We have a special group headed by our Dutch colleagues and friends. We have recently asked the UN Security Council to approve a project to create a special tribunal to punish the guilty. By means of careful consultations, we agreed on a draft of his statute. And we agreed that next week we would be working on a draft resolution and a draft statute at the ministerial level. This will contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security and will allow this international investigation group to complete a comprehensive investigation into this tragedy. Therefore, please support the continuation of the agreement until 1 August 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u51	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on European Integration, Artemenko Andri Viktorovich. The idea is to express the committee’s position as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee discussed this issue at its meeting on July 1, 2015, and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. It is clear that in making such decisions, members of our committee have come from the fact that the ratification of the aforementioned agreement will further contribute to the practical involvement of the Netherlands party in investigating the causes of the air crash of flight MH-17 of Malaysian Airlines, which took place in Ukraine on 17 July 2014. The adoption of this law will allow internal procedures to take effect. This bill does not conflict with our international legal obligations. And the decision of our committee is fully in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So I ask you to support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u53	Thank you. I'll ask in the hall. Is there a need to discuss? Thank you for understanding. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands (number 0038). Dear colleagues, please come to the workplace. At the suggestion of the committee, which has just been announced by a committee representative, there is a request for adoption of the bill as a whole. So please support the committee and vote in favour of Bill 0038 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[11:04:56]] For 261 Decision taken. We're going to the next draft of the 0039 agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u54	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you have before you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (The Project "Basic Credit for Small and Medium Enterprises and Companies with Medium Capitalization") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0039). A proposal has been made by the Deputy Finance Minister to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. Please focus on question 0039, draft law on short-term ratification. Please support this proposal. Review of the simplified procedure. Review of the simplified procedure, fellow believers. [[11:06:01]] For 177 Decision taken. Please, Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich, please on the rostrum. Colleagues, I'd like to be more attentive to you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u55	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have the honour to present to you the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (the Project Basic Credit for Small and Medium Enterprises and Companies with Medium Level of Capitalization) and ask you to support it. The project plans to borrow 400 million euros from the European Investment Bank for 10 years with a three-year debt period. The cost of lending will be directed towards the development of the private sector of the economy, including projects of small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps, as well as the financing of socio-economic infrastructure projects, including energy efficiency and environmental protection projects. This will enhance the ability to finance the real economy, such as boosting the economic activity of enterprises, facilitating the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to scarce, long-term investment resources, and increasing budget revenues. The financial market is now marked by a limited loan cost and a high cost. The implementation of the project will have a positive impact on the national banking sector, as credit costs will be channelled to small and medium-sized enterprises through designated Ukrainian agents. The implementation of the project will also stimulate the mobilisation of an additional 400 million euros for Ukrainian small and medium-sized enterprises through the co-existence of projects by Ukrainian banks and enterprises participating in the joint programme with the European Investment Bank. Given the virtual lack of financing for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises today, the European Investment Bank's proposal to provide 400 million euros in long-term financing deserves support. Especially considering that the source of the repayment of the loan will be the payments of banks and firms of project participants. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Please, Anna Mikolayevna Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u57	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! People's deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification (the Project "Basic Credit for Small and Medium Enterprises and Companies with Medium Capitalization") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which provides for the granting of a commitment to Ukraine to the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. I would like to remind you that this agreement was signed in December 2014 and provides for participation in the real economy of the long-term financial resources of the European Investment Bank. These costs will help our nation to modernize production and increase the efficiency of the labour force, as well as reduce the energy efficiency of the operators and improve the pay balance by reducing energy imports. In the agreement, the payment period is set at three years. The total repayment period is 10 years, including the premium period. The currency of credit is the euro and the dollar of the United States. The project is self-sustaining, the funds will be provided to broker banks and end-users on a pay-back basis. Ukraine is expected to be able to accumulate financial resources up to 800 million euros. In today’s difficult conditions, financial prospects are extremely important for our country. The implementation of the financial agreement will also have a positive impact on the labour market. In addition, I want to say that increasing the lending volume of small and medium-sized enterprises will help them develop and increase their potential, save existing ones and create new jobs. The committee recommends that the draft agreement be supported. We also ask the Ministry of Economics to publish on the website all the information on all projects except loans, humanitarian aid and various financial assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, there is an important proposal to vote in favour of this issue – draft Law 0039: ratification of the Financial Agreement. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote, colleagues. 0039: Draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement. We heard a report from both the reporter and the head of the profile committee. This is a question of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Please support 0039 as a whole. Please vote. Please vote, support the treaty's ratification, in favour, the treaty's ratification. Colleagues, please be more careful! [[11:11:04]] For 260 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation (0040) is being submitted to your consideration. Report to the Minister of Education, Flower. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[11:11:37]] For-191 Thank you. Please, Sergey Mironovich Flower, report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u59	Congratulations, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation. This work is caused by the need to restore the functioning of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on scientific and technological cooperation signed in Copenhagen on July 4, 2002, and is in line with the desire of both sides to develop cooperation in the field of science and technology. The terms of the agreement provide a legal basis for cooperation in scientific and technological research, which allows for increased and strengthened cooperation in areas of common interest. The implementation of this agreement will contribute to building a partnership between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of science and technology, creating the right conditions for the effective use of the scientific and technological potential of both sides and for the protection of intellectual property rights. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian law and the further application of the provisions of this agreement will enable Ukrainian scientists to learn from joint scientific projects. In particular, today, dear colleagues, you will also be considering the law, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement under Horizon 2020. The implementation of Horizon 2020 is impossible without this agreement, here is the sending, more faithfully, of the Horizon is the sending to this agreement. There is a great request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u60	Please report to the committee. Egor Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u61	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered a bill on the ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation (register No. 0040, dated 30.06). 2015), introduced by the President of Ukraine, and considered the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the national deputies of Ukraine came from the fact that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal state procedures necessary to enter into a treaty of validity. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the renewal of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on Scientific and Technological Cooperation and the further implementation of the provisions of the Agreement will enable Ukrainian scientists to participate in joint scientific programmes. The implementation of the agreement will contribute to the integration of Ukrainian science into the European scientific space, the preservation of the scientific potential of Ukraine, the involvement of investment and technological assistance in the scientific sphere of our country. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that the agreement can be ratified. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard the Minister’s report and the report of the head of the committee. There is a proposal for a subcommittee to adopt this draft Law on Ratification as a whole. Is there no objection? Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Prepare for the vote. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the European Union on the resumption of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community on scientific and technological cooperation. Reported by Minister of Education and Science Sergey Mironovich Flower. There is also the conclusion of the committee on the adoption of the draft law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. Draft Law on Ratification. Please vote, please support in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote, please. Ratification of the agreement, please support, colleagues. [[11:16:24]] For 255 The law is passed. 0041 Registration number of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Gasocondition of Urengoy - Pomara - Uzhgorod (Renovation, Capital Repair and Technical Refurbishment of the Urengay - Pomara - Uzhgorod main gas pipeline) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. There is an offer by the Deputy Minister of Energy and the Coal Industry to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support the offer. Ratification, colleagues. [[11:17:03]] For-182 Thank you, the decision is made. Please, Alexander Svetlelik, Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! You are presented with the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to implement internal and state procedures to give consent to the obligation of an international contract under the reconstruction project, capital repair and technical refurbishment of the Urengoy-Pomari-Uzhgrad main gas pipeline. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will allow for a loan of 150 million euros from the European Investment Bank. The money involved from the investment bank is one of the conditions for borrowing from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well as 150 million euros. The total cost of the project is 355 million, of which 300 million euros, as I said, are banks, European banks and 55 million euros are Ukraine's own funds. According to the financial agreement with the European Bank, the loan is granted on a 19-year maturity, with a 5-year maturity. The completion of the project is planned in the 19th year. The project will allow for a capital repair of 4 sections of the linear section of the total length of 119 kilometers. Renovate the Romney Compressor Station of the Urengoy-Pomary main gas pipeline, Uzhgoy-Uzhgrad. The implementation of the project will help reduce fuel and energy costs, ensure seamless and reliable transport of gas. In view of the above, there is a strong request to support the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u64	Thank you. A report from the head of the profile committee, Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u65	Dear Head, fellow citizens! The Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Gasocondition of Urengoy-Pomara-Uzhgrad – Uzhgrad, on reconstruction, capital repair and technical alteration of the Urengo-Pomara-Uzhrod gas pipeline) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, which was set up in December 2014. According to the terms of this agreement, the European Investment Bank will lend 150 million euros to our state. These costs will be aimed at delivering the following urgent tasks for the Ukrainian gas transport system. First, there will be an urgent replacement of four parts of the Ukrainian gas pipeline Urengoy - Pomara – the town to reduce the risk of equipment decommissioning and ensure that the initial project pressure level is restored in the pipeline. Second, two compressors will be replaced at one compressor station to reduce fuel costs and extend the operation of the compressor station. I hardly need to explain in this room the need to carry out these tasks. We all understand the critical importance of ensuring that gas is transported safely and uninterruptedly in Ukraine’s territory to the European market. The adoption of this bill will enable us to ensure the smooth and reliable transport of gas to the countries of Europe through Ukraine. Thus, all speculation around Ukraine’s not being a reliable partner for transporting natural gas to the European energy market will be removed. As a result of its consideration of the bill at its meeting on July 14th, and taking into account the support of the profile material, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the ratification of the specified financial agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have heard a report on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0041). There is a proposal for a profile committee to adopt the bill as a whole. I don't think anyone has any objections? So please, I ask you to prepare yourself and, as proposed, to propose to the committee the adoption of this draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0041). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please support this draft of the Ratification Act, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:22:04]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 0044 Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's Participation in the European Union Horizon 2020 Programme – Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. Report to the Minister of Education. At the suggestion of the Minister of Education, I am voting on the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. Review of the simplified procedure. Consideration of the reduced procedure of the proposal. [[11:22:40]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Mironovich Flower. Please, Minister. The head of the European Integration Committee, Oxana Jurinec, will report. Get ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, you have before you an extremely important bill called the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the European Union Horizon 2020 programme – the Research and Innovation Framework Programme 2014-2020, registered under 0044. On March 20, 2015, the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in this project was signed and the Ministry of Education and Science drafted and agreed with all interested bodies. The point of this law is that Ukrainian scientists from Ukrainian universities and academic institutions will have access to financial resources that are estimated at 80 billion euros. And Ukraine actually participates in all of these programs, it does. This bill is extremely important because today, at the expense of the state budget, we do not have the capacity to properly finance scientific research. But by giving our scientists, giving our institutions access to such large resources on competitive grounds, we create the right conditions not only for them to acquire these resources, but this is a real way to European integration, to learn foreign languages and so on. There is a strong request to support this bill, 0044. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Oksana Jurinec, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u69	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the European Union Horizon 2020 programme – the Framework Programme on Innovation Research 2014-2020 (registration number 0044, from 30.06). In 2015, made by the President of Ukraine, he decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the National Deputies of the Committee of the Supreme Council of European Integration came from the fact that ratification would allow the completion of the internal state procedures necessary to enter into a treaty of validity. The agreement was signed on March 20, 2015. The Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Association of Ukraine's Participation in the Framework Programme of the European Union for Research and Innovation of Horizon 2020 provides for the possibility of Ukraine entering a new level of partnership with the European Union in the fields of science, technology, universities, scientific research organizations, Ukrainian scientists, institutions for joint European scientific research and will provide a basis for structural reforms in the scientific and innovation sphere of Ukraine. I will point out that this decision of our committee is also in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which stresses that the agreement can be ratified. Please be supportive. We can't lose three things: time, opportunity, and word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u70	Thank you for the report. Colleagues, 0044, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on Ukraine's participation in the European Union Horizon 2020 programme – Framework Programme for Research and Innovation 2014-2020. There's a proposal for a committee to adopt this whole ratification bill, and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, an important treaty, an important law on ratification. Ready to vote? Colleagues, 0044 as a whole. Please vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of Horizon 2020. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:27:20]] For 254 The law is passed. Thank you. 0048, draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Joint Purposes of the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Unbound Financial Loan totalling 500 million euros (0048). Reported by Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko. There is a proposal for the vice-premier to address this issue in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[11:27:58]] For-195 Decision taken. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u71	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished gentlemen of the people's deputies! I would like you to consider a bill that provides for the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Joint Purposes of the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Framework Agreement as an integral supplement to the memorandum that will allow the Bank of KfW, the German Development Bank, to rebuild the eastern part of Ukraine with 500 million euros. 200 million euros are foreseen as macro-financial assistance, 300 million euros going in three directions: energy, infrastructure, and utilities and other enterprises that ensure the viability of our regions. These are practically five areas: Zaporezka, Dnipropetrovska, Kharkivska, as well as Donetska and Lugansk. We've practically already worked with the bank on those projects, and 49 of them in these five areas that relate to the restoration, first of all, of transformational substations in the Zaporozhye area and the restoration of capacity. There are also projects in the Luhansk region that relate to life - support systems. The Kharkiv region, apart from utilities, infrastructure objects, the Kharkiv-Kupyansk-Svatovo road, the Donetsk region and the Dnipropetrovsk region. I want to point out that the terms of the loan are 15 years, the credit period is 5 years. And I propose that our distinguished people's deputies support this project. Because it's not just a reconstruction of the east of the country, it's today that will allow for an overall balance of energy, to balance the economic state of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u72	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. Please report to the Vice-President of the European Integration Committee, Maria Ionov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u73	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill is designed for the purpose of ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on the Joint Purposes of the Government of Ukraine and the Federal Republic of Germany regarding the unbound financial loan totalling 500 million euros, signed on April 1, 2015, in the city of Berlin. The purpose of the memorandum's ratification is to grant a commitment for Ukraine to engage from the credit institution to rebuild KfW's credit for investment in the reconstruction and modernization of the infrastructure of the eastern part of Ukraine. In particular, these investments should cover areas such as transport, energy, heating, energy efficiency, water supply, water supply, water supply, social infrastructure, rehabilitation and housing. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration at its meeting on 14 July 2015 reviewed the draft law and decided to bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommend acceptance as a whole. The committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 0048 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on an unbound financial loan totalling 500 million euros. We heard a report by the Deputy Prime Minister and a co-report by the deputy head of the profile committee. There is a proposal for a committee to adopt this draft ratification law as a whole. I take it there's no objection. Everyone please take your seats, dear colleagues. Draft Law 0048, an agreement between Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on an unbound financial loan totalling 500 million euros. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please support the 0048 bill. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:32:33]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 0049 is a draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and income from the alienation of property and the Protocol thereto. Deputy Minister of Finance will report to Makeyev Olena Leonidivna. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. [[11:33:10]] For 172 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report to Deputy Minister McKayev for the financials.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u75	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national deputies and present! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income Taxes and Income from the Seizure of Property and the Protocol thereto, done on 19 April 2013 in Kiev. As the convention is concluded, Ukraine’s legal basis for tax matters is expanded. This convention creates favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Ireland, stimulates the business initiative of entrepreneurs, regulates the issue of international taxation of income in bilateral relations between States. The purpose of this convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territories of both countries. This will be achieved both by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Ireland depending on their origin and by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax obligations of one State the amount of taxes paid in the territory of another State. In addition, the convention aims to prevent and avoid tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Ireland by establishing procedures for mutual reconciliation of issues, and ensure the exchange of tax information. The Convention provides for such tax rates for dividends, interest and royalty. Dividends. The total interest rate is 15 percent, 5 percent for dividends received by a company that owns at least 25 percent of the capital of the company that pays such dividends. Interest. A total of 10 percent, 5 percent for interest paid in connection with the sale of industrial, commercial, and scientific equipment. Royalty. A total rate of 10 percent, 5 percent for royalty in terms of copyright and scientific works, patents, trademarks, or information on industrial, commercial or scientific experience. According to paragraphs 2-3 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this convention and its protocol are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Convention is fully in line with the Model Convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The adoption of the aforementioned Law of Ukraine will speed up and give effect to the convention, its protocol, and the arrangement of relations between Ukraine and Ireland in tax matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Please report, Deputy Chairman of the Committee, Andrew Artemenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u77	Honorary heads, honourable national deputies, the bill was drafted for the purpose of ratifying the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income Taxes and Income from the Seizure of Property and the Protocol thereto, done in Kiev on 19 April 2013. As a result of the convention and the support of both countries, there is a guarantee that income derived from entrepreneurial activities in another country, as well as from sources in that other country, will not be subject to double taxation by countries in the form of dividends, interest and royalty. This convention also guarantees that entrepreneurs of one state will be taxed in another State under the same conditions as entrepreneurs of that other State. According to the Explanatory Note, the implementation of the draft law does not require additional budgetary funding. The Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration at its meeting on 14 July 2015 reviewed the project and decided to bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that it be accepted as a whole. The committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 0049, draft Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland on Prevention. Give me a minute, Andrew Illenka, please. Colleagues, prepare for the vote, and let's get to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u79	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this law. Because it's about avoiding double taxation. It is according to such corresponding international agreements that colossal money is being spent. And Ireland is one of the countries with the most liberal tax legislation. And there is a huge risk that the oligarchic groups in Ukraine will try, especially because of such contracts, to get away from real taxation in Ukraine. In fact, we realize that even a lot of people in Ireland want to be able to do this because of Irish legal entities, because it's more comfortable jurisdiction than, for example, doing it through traditional offshores. That's why it's very dangerous, we're going to vote against and we're going to urge you not to vote for these things that essentially make it possible to clean up funds from Ukraine and new offshore zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland, is the ratification of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation in respect of Income Taxes and Income from Deprivation of Property and the Protocol thereto. There was a report by the deputy minister, this issue was discussed on the committee professionally, and a recommendation was adopted by the committee as a whole to adopt this draft law on ratification. Dear colleagues, please prepare and vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation. Please, Your Honor, 0049 votes. Ratification, respectable colleagues. [[11:39:10]] For 240 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we have proposals, we have a 12-hour recess under the Rules. But we'll spend more time going out into the halls and then going back to it. I have a suggestion that we don't delay the morning session and move to work after 14 hours on the committees, not announce a break from 12 to 12.30, but continue the consideration of agenda issues, and then at 2 p.m. end the morning session and work on the committees. Do you copy, colleagues? Should I vote? You don't have to. Then we'll work on it. Colleagues 2111, draft law. Do you want to vote? I see it together. Let's not vote for break 12-12. 30, and at 2 p.m., the morning session is scheduled to be concluded as scheduled. Do not take a break between 12 and 12.30. Please support such an offer, colleagues. Vote. Please support everyone. Please, go for it, we'll support it. Colleagues! [[11:40:32]] For 197 Guys, let's do it again, we're just going to be wasting our time. Colleagues, we're gonna be wasting our time. Please support me. It's a perfectly normal question that you are. Please don't take a break from 12 to 12. 30, and finish at 14 p.m., and more today to enforce laws, see how many more laws are important. Please let us not go back to this. Please support all colleagues: do not take a break from 12 to 12.30. Please be supportive. Ready? Ready? Please support, please vote. Please support your colleagues. [[11:41:21]] For 207 Okay, we still have time. I'm not going to call it a break. Please, colleagues, 2111: draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. The first deputy of the head will report to the Committee on Rules and Organizational Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Paul. Please report to Pavel Vasilovich. 2111a. Paul Pinzenick. Please, colleagues, concentrate! Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u81	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on 17 June considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the Party's MP "Block of Petra Poroshenko" Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanović for his election as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. According to part two of article 6, part seven of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the election of members of the National Committees is based on the proposals of the MP factions, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees of the MP factions. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Prashenko" in the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has not been fully used, the Committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy and, in accordance with the first part of article 15 of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the members of the Committee, the corresponding draft regulation (registration number 2111a). Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, 2111a. A report by the head, the first deputy head of the committee. This is about choosing Chubarov Refat Abdurahmanović, a national deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Committee on Human Rights, national smaller and international relations. Please, colleagues, please take your seats and we'll vote 2111a. Colleagues, concentrate, please. 2111a. Please support the 2111a Project. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 2111a, the election of Refat Chubarov as a member of the Human Rights Committee, national smaller and international relations. Please support this proposal, 2111a. Please vote, colleagues, vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[11:44:48]] For 243 243 – decision taken. Thank you, dear fellows. The next is 2215 draft decree. Paul Pinzenick. Please, Paul Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u83	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on July 1, 2015, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian National MP, a member of the political party "Unification of Self-Help" Zubad Lubomir Lvivitch, on his election as a member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the political faction of the self-help party in the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government has not been fully used, the committee has decided to support the application of the Zubat People's Deputy, has submitted a corresponding draft of Decree 2215a for consideration by the Supreme Council and asks for its support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor. 2215, select, draft Decree, choose Zubaj Lubomir Lvivovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, faction of the political party Self-help, member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Ready, colleagues, to vote? 2215a. And let's move on to the second reading, the important question of 1861, transfer pricing, colleagues. Ready to vote? 2215th Order, please support, we vote. [[11:46:38]] For 232 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, let's move on to second reading. Draft Law 1861. I'd like to ask you a little quieter, if possible, in the hall. Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u85	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on June 17 discussed a comparative table for consideration in the second reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for transfer pricing). The second reading was attended by 75 amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Of these, 40 amendments are taken into account in whole or in part, and 35 are rejected. I would like to point out, first of all, that this bill only introduces the amendments that are necessary for the work of both business entities and the fiscal services both to the controlling body. The point is that those references to what is weakening the attention or application of transfer pricing to large manufacturers, that's not true. So I'm going to take a brief look at the amendments, the main amendments introduced by this bill, taking into account those amendments that are included in the second reading. These are excluded standards that applied the rules of transfer pricing when taxing added value, i.e. VAT only, the transfer pricing tax applies. The threshold for economic operations, which is recognized as being controlled, has been raised from 20 million to 50 million dollars of annual income of the taxpayer from any activity, and from 1 million dollars to 5 million dollars, the amount of such farm operations of the taxpayer with each counterparty. It has been established that only external economic transactions through non-residential commissioners will be accounted for in determining controlled transactions from all commercial transactions. The Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine will determine not only the list of commodity markets but also the list of goods that are marketable. The list of commodity exchanges for each group of goods that have market quotations to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will include world commodity exchanges. I would like to draw further attention to the fact that the criteria regarding the connection of individuals have not been changed. No weakening or increase in the share of corporate rights of another legal person has increased from 20 to 50. Before the second reading, we ruled out this rule completely. Please pay attention. And we're going to go after the repairs, aren't we? I mean, the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u86	Yeah. Please, colleagues, let's do some repairs. 5th, Dudenkov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 8th National Deputy Musak. Don't insist. Jephim’s National MP, 11th Amendment Don't insist. Debtenko, 15th Amendment. Don't insist. Ephimov, 17th. Don't insist. 19th, Muschak. Don't insist. 20th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 24th, Ephimov. Don't insist. 25th, Levenchenko. He insists. People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u87	Lewchenko, Levchenko, VO "Freedom", 223 district, city of Kiev. Well, unfortunately, this session hall just made a new offshore deal with Ireland, right? Now it is suggested that we accept the second reading and overall relief for the oligarchs in terms of the use of transfer pricing mechanisms. They tell people there's no money in the state, there's no way to fill the budget, there's no way to tell how bad things are, there's a war in us, there's an economic crisis. But it facilitates transfer pricing and withdrawal of funds from Ukraine through transfer pricing mechanisms. Which is totally unacceptable and completely socially unfair. In particular, in this amendment, I propose that we clean up the situation where the bill proposes to narrow the cycle of farm operations for transfer pricing purposes by excluding transactions with capital. And narrowing the other circle by excluding other operations. There is absolutely no way to make the transfer pricing mechanism easier for an oligarchi business right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u88	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u89	You told the lie. Absolutely all criteria, open article 14.1.159 of the Tax Code. Transactions between legal persons are linked by their own capital, the same criterion as it was, not more than three and a half times. We just wrote down how it counts. At the beginning of the reporting year or as an arithmetic average. No relief for large transnational companies is provided by this bill! Please do not mislead all Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u90	Do you insist on voting? Please, 25 amendments, not supported by the committee, the national MP, Levchenko. Identify yourself. The committee's amendment is not supported. The committee's amendment is not supported. [[11:53:25]] Z-62 Not supported. Not accepted. Next. 28 Amendment, People's Deputy Musak. Don't insist. The 30th, the national deputy of Efimov, does not insist. 34th? There is no insistence on the people’s representative of the Ephesians. 36th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 38th, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 41st National Deputy Dudenkov. Don't insist. 42nd, Levenchenko. He insists. 42nd, Levenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, I understand that, of course, many coalition representatives are used to calling black black and white black. Arsenija Petrovich, for example, promised to cancel the Cyprus Agreement in December, the same as Ireland today, promised on television, but until now the Supreme Council has not voted in favour of this, causing hundreds of millions of dollars to be withdrawn from Ukraine every month without paying any taxes. And here you're saying you're not making it easy for an oligarchic business process?Oh, my God! Well, for example, this amendment that I'm now proposing to approve is levelling your offer to increase the level of controlled transactions from 5 million dollars to 20 million dollars. Please tell me, this is an increase in controlled operations, does it not work on the hand of an oligaric business or what? It's just arithmetic, it's called truth. So I encourage you to leave the level of controlled operations for 5 million dollars, not 20 million dollars, as you suggest. Thank you. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u92	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u93	I'd like you to operate on statistics. Do you know how many taxpayers reported on controlled transactions for 2013 that we had for the first time under TCO in 2014? 4,000 legal persons reported. There is no way to handle these reports. In order to do all the farm operations, starting with 1 million or as you suggest, we are now going to have a 5 million dollar share of the farm operation. For external economic activity it's less than a million dollars, it's almost all of the external economic operations that will be controlled. We need 60,000 DFS personnel to be transferred only to the Transfer Price Administration, so that they can learn to work and work. You're bringing the norm into action, or you're going to have reports piled up and no one's going to check them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Are you insisting? 42rd, please correct. People's Deputy Levchenko. Not supported by the committee. [[11:56:30.]] For-44 No support was found for this proposal, the amendment. 41 revisions. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u95	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Unlike Mr. Levchenk, I have a very different proposal, but it does not really apply to protecting any oligarchic groups. Because when you say these words, "in the framework of transfer pricing," I find that surprising, because it's the sum of one counterparty over a year. And according to the transfer pricing, there will be both medium and small entrepreneurs. I propose this right to increase the threshold for transfer pricing transactions controlled from 20 million to 50 million. Why? Because it's not just the original documentation, it's all the analytical information. And if Nina Petrovna said that it was necessary to increase the state of the control body, in this case it was necessary to increase the state of accountants and auditors to tax payers who were not large, they were medium, perhaps even small. 20 million dollars a year is very little because of the devaluation of the bracelet. We're talking about external economic activity. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u96	Everybody's got it, right? So 5 million, 20 million and 50, you have to understand what the current situation is going to be. That is, how many people it takes to do even reports on such operations and to handle them. First of all, we're just learning how to control transfer pricing, just two years, how this system works. You have to understand that we have to move in a European direction, and it's in Europe that controlled operations of 50 million, not 5 as we even have. We've reduced our annual turnover by 10 times with such a counterparty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u97	Are you insisting? Please, the People's Deputy of Dudenkov insists on a vote on 41 amendments rejected by the committee. Please identify yourself. [[11:58:59]] For-57 There was no support for the offer. Come on, colleagues. 47th National Deputy of the Ephims. Don't insist. Debenkov, 51st, National MP. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 56th National MP. 51st, Dudenkov. Don't you insist? 52nd. To confirm 52th, please. National MP Dudenkov, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, a very important offer that Mrs. Ostrich's Aunt Georgiyevna has offered, but she's a very bad joke to play with payers. What's the matter? This bill proposes to exclude proportional adjustment in general. If a transfer pricing tax controls transfer pricing makes it possible for a single counterparty to charge a tax liability, it cannot adjust the costs accordingly. As a result of another counterparty, there is no balance. In this version, the bill proposes only to add up. Other counterparties accordingly, if they have made up the liabilities of income, they cannot adequately increase the cost. And that's why I'm proposing to put this proposal on the stand. It's a very fiscal norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u99	Alexander, please take a look at "Transitional Positions." This rule has gone into "Transitional Positions."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u100	Please, Tetjana Ostrikova, author. That's 52 a's, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In response to the report of the national MP, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that this rule is exempt from the basic text of the Tax Code in view of the fact that it relates to the adjustment of tax liabilities to the added value, to which the transfer pricing rules of 1 January of this year are not distributed. So for those payers who want to make adjustments for controlled operations by 1 January 2015, this rule is stored in Transitional Positions. Therefore, I would like to ask the People's Deputies of Dudenkov to check carefully and not to place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u102	52nd. You're betting on confirmation, but still insisting on confirmation? Committee position: do you support this amendment? It's counted by the committee. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Attention, MPs! 52 amendments were taken into account by the committee, and now the national MP, Dudenkov, made an offer to put them on the stand. The committee supports its confirmation and also supports the author, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikov. 52th for confirmation. And now it's important that, I take it, in order for it to stay, it's important to get 226 votes. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please take your seats. 52 amendment for confirmation. The committee is requesting support for this amendment. The national deputy of Dudenkov has a different opinion. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the 52th amendment because we did it professionally. Maybe you're not taking it out of your voice right now, it's confirmed by the committee. Once it's put on the floor, I'm asking you to vote for confirmation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u104	My colleagues, please, have heard how important it is to support this amendment right now. 52 amendment for confirmation. The committee and the author of Tetjana Ostrick’s amendment ask her to support it. Vote, Your Honor. The committee is asking for support now, to support this amendment. Vote please, Your Honor. Keep asking, yeah. [[12:03:46]] For 199 Dear colleagues, I understand that this is. I take it this is a very important question. 52 revisions. Guys, let's move on. I didn't get my confirmation, so we moved on, maybe we'll be back in the end. 53 revisions. 53rd, don't insist. Next. 56th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist on Ivchenko. 58th, there is no insistence on the people's MP of the Ephesians. 59th National Deputy Yvchenko does not insist. 60th National MP Musak does not insist. 61st, Dudenkov. 61, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u105	Vladimir Borisovich, I don't insist on 61st either, but I'd like to make 54th, 54th, Mrs. Ostrikov again. It applies to fines. The point is that according to this 54 proposal in the first reading edition, fines are increased by 3 times. Taking into account what my proposal has not been made regarding the level of controlled operations of 20 million dollars 300,000 dollars for medium - and small business entities carrying out external economic activities, it is a very substantial sum. So I'd like to propose that she doesn't get the right number of votes, because 100,000 dollars a fine, that's pretty much the same thing, and here 300,000 are offering a fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u107	You can't do that. Because when we looked at the committee and worked professionally, there were specialists working on it, and we're not attesting to this amendment, and you're just using, manipulating right now in the hall. Because what does it mean? We're saying, Mr. Levchenko, that 300 minimum wage fines are for default. We raise to 300,000. No, it's not. So it's a rule that's going to make us report. Now this rule is proposed to return to 100 minimum wages. So you'll understand that we're increasing our fines to discipline reporting. Listen, please don't react to what I'm saying! But I know I'm paying you attention to what the fine will be for failing to report now. You're why, what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u108	Colleagues. And so, dear fellows. Yeah, it's a technical error. This is the People's Deputies. I'll give you a line, I'll give you a line. Please, what was the amendment now, Dudenkov? 54th?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u109	54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u110	54th. I'll give it to you now, no. Wait, I'm going to give you a chance to make a replica. 54th is counted by the committee. 54th was taken into account by the committee, the national deputy of Dudenkov wants to place it for confirmation. Again, the author of Tetjana Ostrikov’s amendment, and the committee supports this amendment. I agree with the logic that when the committee considers it, it deals with the issue in its entirety. But once again, one has already cooled off. Come on, colleagues, 54th. Please take your seats, national deputies. Take your seats. 54 amendments, please. Don't argue. Here come the national deputies to the hall. Please. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! It's a very important standard. If we don't change the fine now, we're left with a ridiculous rule, 5 percent of a controlled operation, fine, fine in case of non-declaration of a controlled operation in a report. That's too much money. We will never train our payer to fill out the correct report. I ask you all to vote in favour of the 54 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u112	Colleagues, the 54th Amendment to the People's Deputy of Dobrenkova needs our support in the Hall. Let's have a signal vote. But I invite you all the time, and I invite MPs all the time. Let's try the alarm, let's see. The committee is asking for the support of 54 amendments, and also the people's deputy Ostrkova is asked to support, now to vote in favour. Please signal 54 for backup. 54th in support, colleagues. Let's support it. 54th and let's support the pro. [[12:09:28]] For 227 Supported. 227, it was a signal. Let's do it again. It was a signal. Please do it again. To support 54th, 227 votes. No one leaves their seats. Vote, colleagues, 54th for support. 54th for backup. We vote yes. 54th in support of this standard. [[12:09:58]] For 226 Copy that. She found support. Replica, Yuri Lewchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u113	Thank you. I would like to ask the reporting officer to keep an eye on the proposer. Because in my dream, I would never have offered to reduce the fines, Deputy Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. This was suggested by the Oblast, with which you now want to adopt this law together. I'm definitely against any reduction in any fine. And on the next amendment, I'm actually going to insist that we even clear this rule after the fines have been reduced. Because you talk about making things easier for business, and you make it easier for an oligarchi business! So please, if you are considering this law, be careful who offers it. "Freedom" has never offered to reduce the fines for these, and it won't!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u114	Thank you for your comments. 56th. Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! I would like to make a very important amendment made by the member of the Opposition Block of Debenkov No. 53 for confirmation. With this amendment, the Opposition Block offers us to shorten the limitation period for transfer pricing checks from the age of seven, as it is now, to three years, which could lead to 18 months of transfer pricing testing. And as long as it's going to last, it's actually going to take about half of the time that it's going to go out. This is how the Opposition Block takes care of its big businesses. In order to ensure that half of the limitation period during the test is completely decommissioned. Therefore, I ask you to place this for confirmation, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of Procedure. And I ask all the deputies in this room to express their position on this matter, not to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u116	Please, 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! I mean. I want to say what really is about this amendment. In the committee, she was counted by one vote. Indeed, what Tetjana Ostrkova said makes sense. Because 3 years is the limitation period for such operations, it's irrelevant and even impossible to verify. Thus, in Europe too, this term is unlimited. So the seven years that are now in law are to be left behind. It's impossible to change. So please really put this amendment to the vote and take into account what I said. The reduction in the limitation period has a negative impact on the performance of its functions by the fiscal authority. They won't be able to test such operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u118	Colleagues, please, 53rd for confirmation. 53 revisions. [[12:13:16]] Z-77 I found no support for this offer, dear colleagues. Let's move on. 56th. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 59th. Don't insist. 60th. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. 62nd. Don't insist. 63rd. 63rd, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u119	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to develop some myths that sounded from this rostrum. The fact that controlled operations are much smaller in Europe is not such a test, and so on. Dear companionship and our television audiences, radio audiences! In Europe, there is no such thing as tax authorities allowing a large corporation to register with hundreds of companies with limited responsibilities. There is no such thing in Europe. What do we have? We have banks registered for thousands of different individuals and societies, we have trading networks in limited liability societies that hundreds of people register. And because of that, of course, their financial flows are not as big as they are, but they are, because they break huge streams into a few. This is not the case in Europe because tax authorities work in Europe. And we don't have them working. Because they, you don't do illustrations, you don't change the frame. That's the problem, not the amount you're saying, we haven't learned. And there's nothing to learn, it's any child can do, an eleven-year-old who knows arithmetic. surgery. I now demand that you place my amendment to confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u120	Please, 63 amendments rejected by the committee. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u121	I mean, honourable national MPs, if you'd been watching, we've just confirmed 54 amendments. So your amendment is counted. It's counted because it cancels exactly what's written in 54.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u122	I see. Thank you. 63 Amendment, Yuri Lewchenko. To the vote. 63 for the vote, Yuri Lewchenko. Declined by the committee. Declined by the committee. [[12:15:40]] For-65 I didn't get the right number of votes, 65, the right number. 64 amendment, People's Deputies of Dudenkov. Don't insist. 66th National Deputy Musak. Don't insist. 69th, Lensky. Don't insist. 71st, Muschak. Don't insist. 72nd, Dudenkov. Don't insist. 73rd, Lensky. Don't insist. All right, colleagues, we've exhausted all the adjustments. There is an offer for all deputies to take their seats. Colleagues, questions about. Question: Second reading and the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for transfer pricing). As a result of the second reading, there is a proposal for a profile committee to accept the second reading and the entire draft of Law 1861. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? I think we're voting, right? I think there's enough voices. 1861 in the second. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1861 in second reading and in general. Ready to vote? Not ready? One minute. This is the second reading, what's the basis? All right, we've got it. Please, colleagues. In second reading and in total, 1861. Please take your seats, honourable deputies, please take your seats. Everybody in place? We vote, colleagues, 1861 in second reading and in general, we vote in second reading and in general. Vote, Your Honor. Please support in the second reading and in general. [[12:18:32]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next draft of the Act is 2608: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption (for declarationaries serving in the military service). Egor Sobolev, 2608 1 amendment rejected. Are you insisting? Please, 2608. 1 amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 3 Amendments, Lensky. Don't you insist? 4th, King Viktor Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. 6th National Deputy Lensky. Don't insist. 7th, King Viktor Mikolaiovich. Don't insist. All right, colleagues, no more amendments. Please give me a minute, Head of the Yegor Sobolev Committee. We will take our seats, we will now vote on the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. Please take your seats with all deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u123	Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u124	Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please take your seats. 2608 in the second reading, and as a whole, as decided by the Committee: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Opposing Corruption (for Declarations on Military Service). Proposing a profile committee6 in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Ready? Please vote. Attention, we're voting! Please be supportive. [[12:20:43]] For 232 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation (2114). Please report to Andriy Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u125	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I suggest you consider the Comparative Table to Bill 2114. A well-adopted bill, which today, if adopted, will complement the process of reforming the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. So he's totally taking over the trial. This project was adopted by the Supreme Council on May 21st. And I would like to remind you that the creation of this state body, the State Bureau of Investigation, is provided for by the provisions of the existing Criminal Procedure Code, as well as the Coalition Agreement, which I believe is an important, planned legislative provision for reforms in Ukraine as a whole. You and I need to create a body that will first investigate crimes committed by senior officials of the State, as well as crimes related to torture, cruel, inhuman, or degrading conduct by law enforcement officials. During the preparation of the draft for second reading, as provided for in article 116 of the Rules, 123 amendments and proposals were made. We took full account of the committee, partially or editorially 64, 59, rejected. With regard to the amendments or proposals taken into account, all the information is available in the Comparative Table to this bill. I just want to remind you, literally briefly, of the groups of these amendments. The first is that it refers to the status of the DDP. The second is the clarification of the basic principles of the organisation of the activities of the DDA. The third is the extension of the DDP tasks. The fourth is the subordination of the PDA to the President and the appointment of his director and deputy. Fifth is the functioning of a competitive commission. I would also like to say under the transcript that this law has to take effect since the creation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the State Bureau of Investigation, but no later than 1 January 2016, except for parts two and three of article 11 on the formation of a competitive commission that will take effect on 1 November of this year, 2015. And I'm also asking you, colleagues, if you can, to vote Amendment 103, it's technical, you just have to count it. And I would also like to pay attention to leaving the investigation bodies in charge of monitoring compliance with tax legislation, the pre-trial investigation of the crime envisaged in article 218-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, that is, leading the bank to insolvency. Also important, under the transcript: "Criminal conduct in relation to crimes provided for in articles 258, 258-1, 258-2, -3, -4, -5, 261 of the Criminal Code, the judicial investigation is carried out by investigators of the body that initiated the pre-trial investigation. The committee then proposes to the Supreme Council the Law on the State Bureau of Investigations as a law, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u126	Thank you very much. Many amendments, let's try to get through them quickly. Do we vote? Society, let's go this way, because this is really 40 minutes of our time. Who insists on amendments to this bill, please raise your hand. No one insists on amendments to the bill. This is the wise and responsible position of Parliament. And that's why I'm voting on the draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation (No. 2114) on the second reading and in general, on the proposal of the committee. Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall, take your seats, responsible, important vote. And I'm voting on the second reading and the whole draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation (2114). Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. [[12:25:33]] For 208 Not all of them made it into the hall. Now. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. And while the MPs are in the room, I'll give the committee's head the floor. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you once again that this bill is long-awaited. Moreover, the authors of this bill, 25 national deputies, all members of the Legislative Security Committee, as well as Mrs. Sotnik and Mr. Chumak. This is the bill that is now envisaged by the Constitution, the Criminal Procedure Code, and that the main thing is our coalition agreement. Colleagues, you keep saying that the prosecution's investigation, it's rotted, it's today, look what's going on. They remove money and money, and diamonds are anything. So let's clean up the D.A.'s office. Let's make the D.B.I., and Saquarelidze will lead him!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u128	Yuri Lucenko, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable chairman of the committee! The law is absolutely necessary. This law marks the last point in law enforcement reform. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of 1996 states that the prosecution should not have the right to investigate. But she has them temporarily in the Transitional position. This law is needed by the State in order to separate the functions of investigation and oversight. But experts believe that this law needs a few more amendments. And dealing with the question of the independent path of appointment of a competition leader is not a government or a president. In this regard, I strongly suggest that he be sent back for a second reading. And in the next session, we'll be ready to take him to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u130	Yes, colleagues. We've got it. We just got 208 votes. Then I'm going to put the vote back to the vote, go back to question 1793. And once all the positions are agreed on, we'll move on to his vote. Because we're gonna take him down. Come on, colleagues, draft law (registration number, colleagues, 2114), the State Bureau of Investigation Act. 208 - accepted in second reading. Let's get back to his consideration for the return. To return. Return 2114. To return to the consideration of the State Bureau of Investigation. Please. Return. Let's go back and have more consultations on this. [[12:28:51]] For 226 Colleagues, come on, everything's on the line. I suggest you do it. We just got back to him. Move the issue so that it doesn't collapse now. And please hold more consultations and then we'll go back to him, okay? Because 226 are only back. We've come back to this question, 226. That is why it is not broken. All right, colleagues, let's move it, we'll deal with it later. 1793 is a draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Codes of the Ukrainian Codes of Criminal Procedure on the Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation. Calm down, we'll figure it out and we'll come back to you. Realization, acquisition of products, jobs and services that have created a real or potential threat to Ukraine’s national security in the military sphere. 1793, Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u131	Colleagues, we've returned to Bill 2114. I put the vote to a second reading and a total of 2114. Please identify yourself, colleagues. No one's gonna talk with the ultimatums! 2114 is the issue of the DBR. I wanted to go back and have more consultations. You think we should vote him now, please. Accept in the second reading and in general. Please identify yourself. In the second reading and in general, the DBR Act. Identify yourself, please. [[12:30:38]] For 181 The law is broken. 181, the law is not passed. 1793. Let's move on. 1793. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, give me another offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head! I made a proposal to reread this bill on the committee with a view to making it better and to bring the next plenary meeting to the hall. Therefore, I ask you to re-vote the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u133	Colleagues, colleagues, there is the offer of Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to return this draft law to the committee for a second reading. Is that what I'm saying? Please, Oleg Berezuk a minute, then Igor Mosiychuk, then Maxim Burbak. After a minute, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we must go back to considering the law and vote on it. Now there are attempts, further attempts to usurp power in the country. We cannot allow, we must create organs that are independent bodies of investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, one minute. Come on, let's keep making decisions, let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u136	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our song is beautiful, new we start it again, second law on the prosecution, second act. What we're watching. We're seeing an attempt by the prosecution of a criminal, unreformed, organized criminal group called the prosecutor's office to leave the investigation to itself, to leave the investigation. And this is supported by the leader of the Presidential faction, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. So I'd like to make a note. Not the whole faction! So please go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u137	Calm down. Please, Maxim Burbak, Maxim Yuriovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, yesterday we voted for the important laws that continue to reform law enforcement. This bill is very important. So we're supporting our colleagues from WFP, because we need to work out all the technical differences. And that's why we support the second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u139	Friends, I suggest the next thing. It's an important law, but we have two choices now, because there's no agreement. First option. It's not his vote, and a dot or go back to him now and send for a second read. Sergey Sobolev, a minute, please. It's a constructive absolute thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the key question right now is whether we are really completing the reform of the law enforcement agencies or we're on the halfway road. Because the National Bureau of Investigation should assume all powers, depriving itself of actually investigating functions from other organs. And that's why now there's a crucial moment for us, this is a vote. Unfortunately, we see that all attempts at torpedoing the law, claiming that a transitional period is required, do not match the reality, because the transitional period in this law is laid down by January 1st, 16th. So we have almost six months to resolve all the issues that we have. That's why we're offering the faction. Undoubtedly, we will return to that vote again, but if it does not pass, we are ready to support the second reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u141	That's what we're gonna do. Dear colleagues, let's concentrate, send it back to second reading and make a law and adopt it. Please calm down. There's no need for emotion here. Please, colleagues, faction offerings, Law 2114. There is a proposal in the order of coming to correct this bill for re-reading to the committee. Colleagues, please take your seats. I ask you to support this proposal for a second reading again, please support. Otherwise he's not going to be approved at all, and we can't go back to him. Please support 2114 for a second reading to the committee. We'll work there, and we'll be fine. Colleagues, please back up or we'll fail at all, please support. Another second reading, please, colleagues, please support. Please support the second reading again. [[12:35:13]] For 231 Thank you, friends who have supported, and the law is not lost. Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich, 1793, draft law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes, 1793. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u142	And the point is, you know, who gets to solve questions about the appointment of the D.B.I.'s head. That's it! All of it! That's the main question: either the president or the Kabmin. Do you understand? I suggested that the third is the Supreme Council, please. If you're ready. Come on, the Supreme Council appoints and votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u143	Colleagues, it is essential that this body be independent. I think it's not nice when the President is wrong when it's not right when it's probably Parliament. You have to create an independent mechanism and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u144	I'm going to add to this that the President, instead of listening to his advisors, who sometimes give him the wrong advice, the ones next to him, the lawyers there, are strong. They made it clear, as Pshonka and all the boys in the wing of Portnow once said, that this Public Prosecution Act (1165) would never pass. And they asked, both Pisarenko and Philipenko, make a covenant, Peter Alexiovich, this law. And he made a vow. That's it. And today, the Right Sector, I'm sorry, tomorrow, someone else with a gun will be giving order because they don't agree with what's going on at the customs office. Instead of having the public prosecutor go, he documents it and then legally wins it in the courts. The committee prepared Bill No. 1793. Mr. Gerasimov, the representative of the Petra Poshenko Block, has long insisted that this bill be considered, in the end it has reached its turn. He proposes to supplement Ukraine’s Criminal Code with a new article 114-2, establishing responsibility for causing the official’s harm to Ukraine’s national security in the military sphere. There are quite a number of technical rights that apply to the Criminal Code. But in general, members of the committee feel that this law has the right to life. Because, in fact, he is intensifying the time of military events that are taking place in Ukraine today, the responsibility for breaking the law, the fact that today may be a crime associated with the movement of such things as goods, purchases, and so forth. So we suggest that we adopt the law as a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u145	Of the amendments that came, only one was rejected – the amendment of the Lensky People's Deputy. Does he insist on it? No, it doesn't. So we can vote on the law. I'm asking MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. The draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Services, which has created a real or potential threat to Ukraine's national security in the military sphere (number 1793). And according to the committee's proposals, I put this bill in second reading and in general. Please vote, please identify yourself. 1793, please vote. [[12:39:13]] For 238. Decision taken. Hello. And we move on to the next issue of the agenda: bill 2500: draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Reporter: Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine is proposed for your consideration (for undeclared investigations (search) concerning judicial and law enforcement officials) (number 2500). I recall this bill was passed on June 2nd this year. The project proposes that article 247 KPC of Ukraine be supplemented with the second part, which will allow for consideration of the issue of permission to carry out an unannounced investigation (search) by an investigating judge of an appeal authority outside the territorial jurisdiction of the judicial investigation body, which conducts an investigative investigation in the event that such a problem concerns a judge, a court official or a law enforcement officer regarding the movement of a court or a law enforcement authority. There were 12 suggestions. We've counted three, nine down. Well, it's a simple language to say that if, for example, in one area, a person commits a crime that works in law enforcement or in a court of law, and doesn't go to the same court to get an operating unit to get permission to carry out operational investigations, so there's no leak of information, there's no betrayal, there's no surrender, there's a rule and there's a bill that's going to make it possible to do these things and show corruption to thieves in pursuit. Therefore, the committee suggests that we accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u147	Thank you. There's a proposal for the committee to take as a basis and as a whole in the committee's version. Does anyone insist on changes that have been made? Don't insist. It's a very nice bill, 2,500. Please take your seats. 2500. 2500, please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 2500 accept in the second reading and in general. Please, 2500, please support this bill. 2500, please vote, colleagues. Vote. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[12:41:58]] For 214 Colleagues, mobilize, I see you haven't made it. I see. Please, have a good time. We have a draft Law (Registration No. 2500), a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for undeclared investigation (search) of the judiciary and law enforcement agencies. Yuri Lucenko, one minute, with motive. Please take your seats, fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I am now addressing those members of the coalition who have not voted. What regulates this law? This law regulates a very current situation in which attempts are made to bring judges and prosecutors to criminal responsibility. The law proposes that judges and prosecutors be brought to justice in other areas so that they do not know that they are acting on it. This law makes it more realistic to hold corrupters accountable in the benches of judges and prosecutors. Asking him to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u149	Colleagues, draft Law registration number 2500. Please take your seats. 2,500 in second reading and in general. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Colleagues, in second reading and in general. Ready to vote? Please! Let us return to the consideration of the matter in the second reading. Please, on your return, please support. To return. Anti-corruption law. Please vote. On our return, we will now return to our second reading. Please support me. [[12:44:06]] For 230 Decision taken. In the second reading and in general, please vote. Please support, fellow believers, in second reading and in general. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:44:26]] For 230 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension insurance (second reading (1466). Head of the Committee on Social Policy, Sergey Druuk. 1466.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u150	Please, the rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Drauk Sergey Evseyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich! For your consideration, a comparative table is included in the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s pension laws to adopt it on second reading and in general. The essence of the law is that the recalculation of pensions for military personnel is made from the date on which the entitlement is obtained without limitation if the calculation has not been made by the Pension Fund or by the state authorities that issue the credits for the accrual of pensions. Bills from the National Deputies include 8 amendments, 7 of which are taken into account and one is rejected. This is an amendment by the Royal Natalia of Jurijivna concerning an increase of at least 55 percent of the salaries and salaries at the military special rank of military personnel, members of the military and the primary staff. It is rejected for reasons that do not correspond to the title of the bill and was adopted in violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services recommends that the Supreme Council accept the text of the comparative table and accept it on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the amendments are taken into account under this bill, and there is a proposal for a vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension laws (number 1466) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. [[12:47:12]] For 226 Decision taken. Welcome to the project authors. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, draft Act (Registration No. 0901) amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts on strengthening measures to combat the falsification of dairy products (Registration No. 0901). Please, Taras Kutov, head of the profile committee. Please, let's go to the repairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, understand the essence of this bill in general, so that you can understand it, and there is a certain vision. A second - reading bill (registration number 0901) is presented. On milk and dairy products and other legislative acts to strengthen the fight against falsification of dairy products. What are we talking about? Before I go to the amendment, I'll say that all the amendments except one were considered by the committee. The vast majority of amendments were made by the People’s Deputy Miroshnichenko. Of the key, apart from the technical reading of the amendments, were the main ones. The first amendment, which was taken into account, came into force six months after its publication. And the second amendment, that dairy products, apart from being placed separately, should still be placed on separate shelves. In general, to understand what we're talking about, dear colleagues. This is about the fact that today, when producing so - called milk and dairy products, there's a lot of use of fats and ingredients of plant origin that aren't actually animal origin, and they don't carry the load in the context of vitamin composition, potassium, etc., etc. Today, all of these products are sold at the same time. The bill proposes to introduce a new formulation of the dairy product. So milk-meat products by definition are food products made from milk raw materials with the addition of non-milk raw materials, which replaces milk fat with no more than 50 percent without the replacement of milk protein and lactose, with or without the addition of food additives that are perceived by the consumer as milk-like products, replace dairy products. An amendment that is not supported and which has been integrated into the bill is an amendment to the regulation of milk prices. The National MP Mishchenko suggested that article 6 should be inserted as follows: "The state regulation of purchase prices for milk with the aim of ensuring the state protection of non-collected milk producers and the anti-abuse of monopolies during the formation of purchase prices for milk by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine each year sets a minimum acceptable level of purchase prices for milk not collected and not subjected to any processing, processing or packaging for further sale." The amendment was rejected. As soon as the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, handed me a letter addressed to him from the National Deputies asking them not to reject the amendment adopted by the Ukrainian Committee, which nullifies the substance of the bill, and to invite the National Deputies not to vote in favour of its confirmation. Well, so, Vladimir Borisovich, I understand that we're putting her on confirmation according to this letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u155	Please make a proposal according to a letter from such deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u156	The amendment committee, I repeat, which reads as follows: "In order to ensure the state regulation of the protection of non-collected milk-producing persons and to resist the abuse of monopolistic status during the formation of purchase prices for milk, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets annually the minimum permissible level of purchase prices for milk not collected without any processing, processing or packaging for further sale." I made a clear amendment. Simply put, the amendment recommends and actually establishes a rule that the purchase price of milk will be regulated annually by the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee rejected the amendment. Suggested by colleagues of the Ripper, the amendment is for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u157	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u158	Amendment number 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, there are 15 amendments that have been rejected. There is a proposal to put her to the vote. Please, Mikhaylo Golovko, then Oleg Lazko. Basically. And let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u160	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to clarify the substance of this amendment, which is a very important and principled one. Because you all know the situation in a village with purchase prices for milk. Taking this amendment into account, we will be able, through the Cabinet of Ministers, to regulate the purchase price of milk each year. The villagers work hard, they work hard! For someone, a cow is the only source of income, especially in the country. And you and I have to protect the peasants, accept this amendment. This is going to be very important. By the way, there are now a number of bills in the agenda, including mine, about the purchase price for milk. If we don't support her right now, at least vote for those laws! Because it's very important to the village. After all, the cow is practically the only nurse. Support the peasants! It's you who vote for the people. I urge you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lakota, the initiator of the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Which is suggested by this law, in particular by 16 amendments, which I also demand for confirmation, which is counted. It is proposed to delete the rule that Kabmin regulates milk prices. We are definitely against it! Ladies and gentlemen, today the purchase price for milk is 2 bracelets! It was 2 bracelets a year ago when the bracelet was 8 to the dollar, it's 2 bracelets today when the bracelet is 24 to the dollar! It's a banal looting of peasants! In the middle of the day, robbers do not rob our peasants as much as they do today. So we demand that we leave the rule of price regulation for milk for once. And the second. We suggest going further and banning the use of palm oil in dairy products that are being marketed in the internal market! In Africa, take it, sell it. In Ukraine, ban palm oil! This will enable the cattle to be raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u164	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I will return to the content of this bill. There is no point in supporting the amendment if you vote and what you just said against the bill itself. That's the essence of the amendment to the bill you're going against. Besides, I'll say it again. This bill introduces the concept of "milk meat product." So if this bill is adopted, we have the notion of a "milk meat product," just a product in which palm oil can be involved and so on and so forth. The only thing the law determines is that we're introducing this concept, it already exists, such products are actually legalized. They're the only ones that have to be placed on other shelves in stores. So the logic is, by this law, do we even legalize the concept of "milk meat product" as if we don't legalize it. That's what we're talking about. As for the 15th Amendment. Today we have two bills in our agenda: the main and the alternative, which are exclusively devoted to regulating the purchase price of milk. That's why this question is going to happen today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, and we have 15 amendments that have been rejected by the committee, and there is a letter to put it to the vote. Committee position at 15, do you support or not? You turned it down, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u166	Overruled. It's rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u167	Please, 15 amendments rejected by the committee. I'd like to make up my mind. Please identify your colleagues, please, 15 amendments rejected by the committee. 15 Amendments rejected by the Committee. [[12:57:16]] For-154 Not counted. And 16th for confirmation. So you were just talking about her, 16th. Please give me a minute, 16 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u168	Dear co-conspirator, distinguished citizens of Ukraine! We do not object to supporting this law. You, Taras, misunderstood us. Of course, dairy products should be on one shelf, milky, milky, like the cat cried, and all else chemistry should be on the other shelf. What we're talking about is that we need to go even further, and we need to ban the use of palm oil in dairy products in general. This will allow the milk to rise, the price of milk, and the cattle to grow. So we suggest that we take the next step to ban the use of palm oil. With regard to the 16 amendments. 16 The Kabmin amendment removes the obligation to regulate milk prices. We ask that this 16 amendment be put to the vote and not supported by it, and leave behind the Cabinet the right to regulate milk prices. Otherwise the price of milk will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u169	Thank you. 16 amendments, please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u170	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, one more explanation to make it clear. The use of palm oil is already prohibited. What we do with this bill, if we accept it, is that we allow it through the introduction of the concept of "milk meat product." According to current milk standards, milk should in fact be milk. Milk products are products. Under the existing Ukrainian Milk and Milk Products Act, dairy products are products derived from milk or milk raw material that may contain food supplements necessary for production, provided that these supplements do not partially or completely replace milk ingredients, milk fat, milk protein, lactose. That is, according to existing legislation, palm oil is prohibited. If this one. I read the law. If this law is adopted today, there is a concept of a milk - meat product that allows it to do so, but at the same time, to place these products separately from dairy products.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u171	Thank you. Rosenblatt, please 16 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would like you to understand very carefully the essence of this bill. This bill actually introduces the notion of milk-mixed products that contain non-milk products, or palm oil and all that. In fact, you understand history when margarine came into the world. It was World War I, when there really was not enough dairy. Now there's enough milk in Ukraine. And the price of it today is a market reality that today does not really match the value of it, but it is today. So I'm asking you very much, we have a bill that is very important today. Understand: Milk is people's lives, it's what really affects their health every day. So, really, supporting or not supporting this law is really our law in the future. So you're solving this question today, and you're voting how it really is, so you can look at the axis of your children. That's what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u173	So the proposal for 16 amendments is to put it on confirmation, it's counted by the committee. So the position of the committee is to count. National MP Lazko, offer not to support. And that's where they exchanged their thoughts. Therefore, respectable national MPs, determine how 16 amendments are made. Once again, the committee supported, took into account this amendment, the national MPs Lazko, the narrator make a written proposal to put this amendment to the confirmation, and the Head, and not to vote for it. Did I inform you correctly? All of it. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. 0901 law, amendment number 16, which is considered by the committee and will now be submitted for confirmation. Please, colleagues, 16 revisions. [[13:02:21]] For 112 The amendment did not find its confirmation. 17th. Counted. The 17th? On the 17th, please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, colleague Boris Rosenblatt said that milk is life, and palm oil is a health problem, and palm oil is a cancer of the stomach tract. That's why let Borislav Rosenblatt as a dairy producer say, Taras claims that the norm of today's law prohibits the use of palm oil. Borislav, does he forbid or forbid it? Do you use palm oil in dairy or do you not use it? Let the people know. We have laws written down by one, not by their manufacturers, who use palm oil instead of milk. In 1991, we had 20 cattle heads, now one and a half million. Why? Because they're bringing chemistry from abroad, and our peasants can't sell two bracelets a liter of milk, which is cheaper than water. So the time has come to protect the interests of Ukrainian peasants!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u175	Please let me finish, 30 seconds. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the situation today is as follows: I have already read the rules of the existing law. Oleg Valeriyovich says very well that to protect the national manufacturer and, indeed, to produce all the products exclusively from milk, we need to follow the existing standard. And the existing norm says today, literally, I read, "It deals with the production of exclusively dairy products with natural milk raw materials." According to today’s law, dairy production is permitted exclusively from milk raw materials. Yes, he's Rosenblatt, my colleague, confirming. The fact that today unconscionable producers use this palm oil is their responsibility, and they must bear this responsibility. And what the bill says is that those colleagues who use palm oil today will be legalized under the term "milk meat products." So all the products that are going to be used today using palm oil are just going to be called dairy products and will be sold on separate shelves. That's what the law says. So if at the price of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u177	Please, Rosenblatt. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, once again I want you to listen carefully. We have a lot of counterfeiting in the country, where real dairy products are used for housing, palms, and so forth. And all of this is sold on the same shelves. This bill clearly divides the products that go, the dairy products, which should not contain any pretenses and are only the basis of milk, and there are those products that are in front, that is, the mixture. So I really want you to understand that today we have to separate separately from dairy products that have no right to produce from others in any way. milk; and those products that are really mixtures are the fronts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, listen again. We're about to bring this law to absurdity in a single norm. There is a procedure for dealing with issues in the second reading provided for by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. We voted 15 amendments, we voted 16 amendments -- she didn't find her confirmation. Next. We're moving on. 17 readjustments included. 18 readjustments included. All other amendments are included. By procedure, we must now vote in the second reading and in general. The factions are asked for one minute before voting. Please, who's asking the factions one minute at a time? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please. And now we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u180	Dear friends! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. This law testifies to one sixth of the state’s powerlessness, nothing more. We have no control over what we feed the people and children, so we have found a way out of the situation: this way, from the side, to do something. Dear friends, there is no other meaning to this law. There's only one thing left: not just on the other shelves, but write, "It's a milk forger." Everything, and then we vote. Guys, we don't even have a natural sausage, sorry, we don't have any more natural milk "day with fire." And we're sorry if we're looking for a moment to do at least a little good work. We will vote in favour of this law, but, Oleg Valeriyovich, give immediate effect to the law that prohibits the use of palm oil. Absolutely. Or on these shelves, put a "falsification of dairy." Then let our consumer choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u181	Oleg Lazko, please, from the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u182	Dear fellow national MPs, unfortunately, most of you are urban citizens, you don't know what the Ukrainian village lives for. Ukraine begins with a cow when there is no cow in the village, there will be no village if there is no village, there will be no Ukraine. So when we talk about the fact that in the shops on the shelves there are Polish, there, chemistry with all due respect to Polish friends, palm oil, so-called milk, so-called cheeses, it's not milk, it's not butter, it's not cheese, it's a fake, it's a fake, it's the most important thing, it's a fake that takes into our peasants the opportunity to feed their family, because they could sell their milk, and instead of their milk, there's no milk from palm oil, from chemistry and milk, there's no milk, there's no milk. The use of palm oil in dairy products should therefore be prohibited. This will enable cattle to be raised, allowing people to earn in the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u183	Colleagues, from the Peter Dust Block. Who? Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, you know, I will not vote in favour of this law just because one of the authors of this law is Mr. Pshonka. You know, they could have offered a good offer for the Ukrainian village, for the Ukrainian people. But perhaps only to destroy, only to destroy, to destroy, to destroy, to destroy, or destroy, the health of this nation. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge not all to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u185	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I belong to a constituency in rural areas. And I think there's a lot of attention to this bill today. People hope that we will make a wise decision. What does this law entail? He'll just legitimize what's actually being applied, except for others there, probably ingredients, palm oil. I think to see the scale of this falsification, you would have to take an estimate of how much palm oil was imported into Ukraine for what it was used for. And it's clear that there's going to be solid milk production, and there's going to be surrogates. And poor people will buy what is cheaper. And one more moment, Vladimir Borisovich, there are the following laws that regulate the purchase price of milk. After considering this bill, let's consider and make a decision, calm people down, because in two bracelets of 50, no one can survive in the village today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u187	Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's why they're standing in order. Anatoly Hirschfeld, and let's go to the vote. Please take all your seats. Please take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u188	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The solution to the problem of milk price is not limited to the administrative plane or to the prohibition of the import and price of palm oil into Ukraine. There must be cooperatives in the villages that could collect milk and sell it at some fixed price. Then we would have come to market-based mechanisms for regulating milk prices rather than artificial mechanisms. A grandmother who has a cow can't get the contract right. A cooperative is needed, and there is a need for a government programme to entrench cooperatives in the countryside that could sell further certified milk. And it must be taken into account in the amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u189	Thank you, Your Honor. And so, please take your seats. Draft Act (Registration No. 0901) amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts on strengthening measures to combat the falsification of dairy products. Please, colleagues, 0901. They took their seats. Ready to vote? I'm asking for half a ton of silence, colleagues. Ivan Rybak, please give me a minute. Take your seats. And half a ton of quieter, please, dear fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, let's probably not overturn this law, but let's re-read it. Because the thoughts in the room were divided. In fact, all the amendments that were proposed were not taken into account in the hall today. Let's still put the second reading back on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u191	Let the committee generalize it then. Please, Taras Kutov. A second reading proposal. Let's do it now. Now let's do it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u192	Colleagues, to be clear in the context of support-non-support, which is essentially going to be after the adoption of the law. According to how we've put the amendment in place, once this law is passed, there will be a more faithful, re-establishable Kabminian regulation of the purchaser's milk price. That's the first one. This is the first thing that will be adopted if the law is voted on. The second one that will be accepted after that. Products containing palm oil and other nonfat fats will be allowed to be sold but on separate shelves in stores. Whether or not to support this question is already a matter for each MP. But I've just brought in a bunch of actually what the law is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u193	Thank you, colleagues. And so. First sentence, according to the rules. Take your seats. In the second reading and in general. Have you taken your seats? Vote. In the second reading and in general, 0901. 0901 in second reading and in general, colleagues. Vote. [[13:15:20]] For-141 The decision is not taken. And the proposal that was made by the national deputy John Rybak to return to the second, to prepare for the second, to read the second, to read again. I think it can now unite the hall. Let us not lose this law to the second reading again. Let's settle this and then we'll vote in agreement. Is such an offer accepted? Let's do the second reading again. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. We vote second reading again. [[13:15:59]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there is an offer to return to this law so as not to lose it. Go back to his consideration. And once again, I'm going to put to the vote the question of sending him on second reading again. A reasonable offer? Please return to view 0901. 0901 return to review, 0901. Please return to 0901. Return 0901. [[13:16:53]] For 215 The law is regarded as being rejected. Come on, colleagues. 2074a is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing and Social Services Act on adequate socio-economic protection for participants in an anti-terrorist operation and their families (for fair assignment and grant) (second reading). Please, Alona Babak. Please, Alona Valerievna. Fellow national deputies, we have 40 minutes to work with you. I'm asking everyone to stay in their jobs as national deputies. Now, look, here's the question of a just assignment and granting grants to members of an anti-terror operation, to participants in an anti-terror operation, and to their families. An Important Law? It's important. So please, I would ask for a series of important laws. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u194	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing Bill for Registration No. 2074a, submitted by People's Deputies Lášk, Galasjuk, Kononenko, Berezuk, Teteruk, Sobolev, Fishing, Kubi and Korchinski, was discussed at the meeting on July 01 this year and prepared for a second reading. In fact, the bill provides for changes in the arrangements for the assignment of housing, housing and utility subsidies to participants in an anti-terrorist operation and members of their families by assigning them subsidies and purchasing clumps of gas, solid and annual household fuel for the duration of an anti-terrorist operation. In fact, the bill was developed for second reading, in line with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And so today, there are four amendments to the committee, of which only two are rejected, the other two are counted. So in fact, we think that the bill is absolutely ready for adoption in the second reading and we are actually proposing to accept it today as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u195	I think that we are all completely alone in thinking that we can vote in accordance with the committee's decision in the second reading and in general this draft law. Colleagues, please take your seats, the 2074th draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Social Services Act on Good Socio-Economic Protection of Counter-Terrorism Workers and Members of Their Families (Equitable Assignment and Grants) in the second reading and as a whole, as decided by the Committee. Ready to vote? Colleagues, please take your seats. Vote 2074a. Please be supportive. Please vote. 2074a, please vote. [[13:20:12]] For 242 Decision adopted, law approved. Thank you, Your Honor. 1484, draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the identification and registration of animals. Taras. Vadim Ivchenko, please, second reading, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, before your consideration, the second reading of Bill 1484 was prepared along with John Miroshnichenko, the Self-Help faction. During this week, Parliament has focused on issues that need to be addressed expeditiously. Dear colleagues, because of the hardening of Ukraine’s existing legislation on non-acting mechanisms, the identification of animals is now effectively blocked. I would like to add that today, the minister who visits foreign countries is opening exports for our dairy products, has asked the Chief of the Supreme Council to have this law passed and voted. Because we're planning on opening the milk market in November months, if Europeans find out that our cows are not identified, and this market is blocked, they might come up with questions. Colleagues, the bill is one of those that finally allows the identification of animals to be launched in Ukraine, and therefore to meet the requirements of Ukraine for an association with the EU in this part, taking an important step towards controlling the quality of livestock production in households. Secondly, the bill also takes into account the interests of peasants, so that by adapting our legislation to the requirements of the EU the state does not forget the simple grandmother in the country. And thirdly, the proper implementation of the bill depends on whether or not the funds are put into the budget, and therefore its adoption is urgent in view of the start of the budgetary process. Dear colleagues, 24 amendments were made. This includes a total of 5 amendments, a partial of 16 amendments and 3 amendments are rejected. In the committee's second reading, we've allowed the animal's physical owner to pay for services personally, and also at the expense of third parties of any legal person, or natural person. We fix the principle of objective and moderate pricing for these services no more than 20 percent of the cost gives you the right of all natural persons to compulsory compensation by the State so that grandmothers have the right to compensation and the right to sell milk and cream and that the State has a responsible duty. We establish that the costs for both compensation and identification systems should be provided for by a separate line in the State Budget of Ukraine. We foresee a corresponding mandate from the Ukrainian Cabinet, which is now, when the 2016 budget is planned, for the current year, the corresponding funds have been foreseen. Colleagues, we propose that this law be adopted in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need for Amendments? None. There is a proposal to vote on this bill. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Draft Law 1484, you've heard the report by Vadim Yvchenk. The adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the identification and registration of animals. Please take your seats, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, 1484 in the second reading, and in general, I'm going to put the vote in a signal right now. And for our cooperation with the European Union, this is an important draft law, so please, I would like to take this very seriously, there is a letter of support from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, 1484 in second reading and in general, a signal vote, friends. 1484, please support in the second reading and in general, the signal vote, please support, signal. [[13:24:43]] For 219 Colleagues, almost. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Let's give the signal again. Ready? Please take your place as a colleague, 1484. Please take your seats. 1484 in second reading and in general. Signal vote, please. 1484 for. There are voices. [[13:25:39]] For 240 Thank you, colleagues. In the second reading and in general, we vote. It was a signal simple to. We vote 1484 in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[13:26:00]] For 241 The law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. 2655 Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law (to reduce administrative burden), amending the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine. Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to thank you for the last bill. And I want to say that all the bills in second reading are ours, there are no authors -- they're committee bills. Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, No. 2655, submitted by the People's Deputies: Ivchenk, Miroshnick, Labazuk, Kutov, Kulinich, Bakumenko and Musak. The bill proposes to amend the Law on Quarantine Plants in part of the limitation on the issuance of quarantine and phytosanitary certificates, the introduction of separate lists of regulations for the import, export, transit and re-export of plant products, and the reduction of public quarantine facilities. These changes contribute to reducing the administrative burden on the agricultural producer. Due to a substantial reduction in the deadlines for issuing quarantine documents and improving the functioning of the central executive body, which implements public policy in the field of plant quarantine, as well as enhancing the efficiency of production and production of plant origin at the same time as ensuring a proper level of phytosanitary safety in Ukraine. The committee’s second reading included 48 proposals from law - enforcement entities. Of these, 23 are included, including some of the accounting and editorial. Twenty-five proposals by national deputies have been rejected. Rejected proposals, colleagues, contradict the concept adopted on the basis of the bill and leave unchanged the current Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act, which we have made changes, creating obstacles to Ukraine's commitment to Ukraine's gradual approximation of legislation with the European Union. As a result of the consideration of the proposed proposals, the committee decided at its meeting to recommend to you, colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on quarantine of plants (for reducing administrative burdens) (registration number 2655) on second reading and in general. Please support the committee's decision. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Are there any objections to this law, colleagues, 2655? There is a proposal to vote on the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine (to reduce administrative burden). Please, colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, 2655 draft law. Ready to vote? We vote in second reading and in general 2655, we vote in second reading and in general, in second reading and in general. [[13:29:30.]] For 216 We didn't make it. Please take your seats. Who has the potential? I heard you in the hall. Someone says someone has potential. Please, 2655. Let's go back to 2655. Ready? Oh, no? One minute. Let's do 2655 for the return. Please vote. 2655 for your return, please vote for your return. 2655, we vote in favour. [[13:30:19]] For 221 221. Let's go to the second reading again or we just go to it. Let's go back. 2655. Let's vote for the return, let's figure it out. Last time I'll pay you back, last time. 2655, colleagues, for returning to this law. Please 2655 for a return to the subject. 2655 for the return. [[13:31:12]] For 241 We're back. Ready to vote in second reading and in general? Ready? In the second reading and in general, we vote 2655. Please vote 2655, second reading and in general. [[13:31:32]] For 234 Decision taken. The law has been passed. Let's move on, fellows. I, you know what I'd like? To focus your attention, we have a number of regulations on the educational process, I'll put them at the very end, it's about education, Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich will inform. Decisions to vote. And now we're going to go to the law, the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on government regulation of purchase price for milk and village support, 2089, 2089-1. There is a proposal to consider these two bills in a simplified way. Review of the simplified procedure. [[13:32:26]] For-183 Decision taken. Please report. Anatoly Evlakhov, 2089 Please be brief so that we can go through another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank Vladimir Borisovich for the fact that this bill finally appeared in the order of the day session, as well as to thank the national deputies who did not leave the session room. Bill 2089 is very simple. I'll tell you what he's talking about. The bill proposes setting minimum purchase prices for milk purchased by processors in the Ukrainian population. Unfortunately, we went to the government, we went to the Ministry of Professional Affairs. And no one wants to hear the voice of a simple Ukrainian peasant. So the Supreme Council is forced to assume a function that is not inherent to it. But I want people to hear. It is Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko who mentions very often the peasants, whom everyone has forgotten. So our ministry of agrarian politics has forgotten that now the minimum purchase price of one liter of milk is 2 bracelets. At a fractional price of 14. So we have to think about whether we support people or whether we just support retail trade and processors. Because I want to tell you? If you really understand what's going on in Ukraine right now, if you know what 13 million villagers live for, please support this bill. That our government, the most democratic, the best government, should mention such a story. As once a criminal government, it is fashionable to say, in 2012, under the leadership of Mr. Azarov, he did gather milk processors, dairy producers, and decided to set a minimum purchase price. In 2012, I repeat, the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u201	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u202	Set the price of 2 bracelets 20 copies. Now 2015 and the price of milk in a peasant is the same 2 bracelets, but it's already less than 10 cents. So I want you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u203	Is there a need for discussion? Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a need for discussion. Alternative, yes, please be an alternative right now. Then there will be a discussion. Please, Head, report from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u204	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the bill which was proposed by Evlakhov and mine, which is an alternative. The essence of the bill is to raise the purchase price of milk for peasants, starting with at least four bracelets. Because today, really peasants, practically the village is dying. Because for them, cow is the only source of income. Most peasants survive on account of this milk. But it's so cynically built that today the price of milk is 2 bracelets up to 2.50 and 12 or 14 bracelets in stores. And this is disastrously unfair. After all, this milk is taken from all the fats and so on. And what I'm saying is that practically with the price of milk falling, people are starting to carve cattle and the goods are going down. Over the past year, 10 percent have been reduced, and in general, in years of independence, cattle have been reduced by almost ten times, and this continues. Because literally in a couple of years, we're not going to have cows, we're not actually going to have milk. Where are you going to take him, anyway? If we don't stand up for the peasants now, practically all cows will be cut out. And the village knows and dies. That's why I urge you to vote in favour of these bills to support the village. We are prepared to unite these bills together with Evlakh in one law in order to protect the village. Because if we don't vote now, you're practically going to challenge the village. I call on all deputies to support it. If someone doesn't vote, it's practically going to be these deputies who are going against the peasants. We'll put up lists, let the village know, let people know who doesn't support the village, who doesn't support the village. And you have to back up. Because if we don't, the peasants will die and the cows will actually be slaughtered. I call for one bill to be supported by all the co-sponsors, Evlakhova and mine, one law. Please support, this is very important. The villagers thank you. For once, turn to the villagers for this, national MPs! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u205	I ask everyone to remain calm. Please report to the committee head, Taras Kutovov, please. Then there'll be two in, two in the opposite. And then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with the authors in the context of a catastrophic situation that has arisen in the public market for purchasing prices. It is indeed a shameful situation when the milk in our village is cheaper than the water. But at the same time, I would like to make a statement to the committee on this subject and its decision as a college body. The committee is considered to be rather complex in terms of price regulation. Because if the price is set and not given, God, or if the purchasing companies do not make purchases at a fixed price, a similar function should be taken over by an agrarian fund that is neither technically nor financially at the moment understands how to do so. Because these amounts of milk need to be concentrated. It is not properly stored, heat-treated, and so on. So the committee asked the Ministry of Agrarian Policy to draft a bill that would take into account the interests of citizens who really need to be resolved today. And I've also developed mechanisms for how this can be achieved. In the context of both basic and alternative bills, the committee decided to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u207	Thank you. Now, please register the deputies two in favour, two in favour. Please sign in. Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u208	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u209	Please, from the podium.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u210	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Finally, millions of Ukrainian citizens have reached the country’s parliament to consider matters that are of direct concern to millions of Ukrainian citizens. The Radical Party faction will vote for laws that establish, emphasize, not fixed, but a minimum price for milk. The minimum price for milk should be 4 bracelets, a minimum, and if a person deals with a manufacturer and sells 5 by 6, let them sell. Because if we set a fixed price for milk for 4 bracelets and it's possible to sell 5 or 6 depending on the terms of the contract, the law already prohibits it. So let's not do any bear service for the peasants. We have to set the minimum price for milk 4 bracelets per liter, and so, I think this is, and so, I think it's an unfair price of milk, which is actually larger, a liter of water in the store costs 12-15 dollars, why does the price of milk have to be 4 bracelets? And most importantly, what this law requires is inflation indexation. We have the price of milk 2 bracelets that today, what year ago, and the dollar rate that today and what year ago? So the minimum price for milk is 4 bracelets and a quarterly index for the inflation index. When the producers suddenly tell me that setting a minimum price for milk 4 bracelets will result in their losses, it's not true, because today's damage to one villager, to all the other profits. I didn't see anyone selling milk other than the peasants have any damage. Why? Because peasants are taken for free. Two bracelets were taken away and 12 bracelets sold in the store. Where is the difference 6 times? So you have to share the profits with the peasants, the minimum price of 4 bracelets and the inflation index. That'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u211	Please, Mikhaylo Bondar, the People's Front passes the word Igor Guzu from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u212	Dear friends, I represent the Volin region, which is agrarian. Three years ago, I had experience blocking roads in Volinsky, demanding debt and raising the price of milk. What happened in three years? The price was 2.20, the dollar went up three times, so the price of the dairy store went up, and Grandma and Grandpa are back on the market for 220. So some people say it's populism that can't be priced, so it's the law. So you'll realize that over the years we've had Volina, I don't want to call it, there's a financial political group in this room, there's a financial political group that's been controlling milk factories for the last 20 years, and they're making billions. Billions! People are groaning! Once again, I have 207 villages in the district. People are cutting off cattle for today, they can't survive. Potatoes are not liquid, beetroot, these, these, only give milk. And there are monopolies and they say, you're not going to give 2 bracelets, we're not going to take milk in your village. So, dear friends, it's not populism, the village's moaning, the village's dying, it's singing. And this milk makes it possible for these people to survive today in the village. So I'm asking you to mobilize and support, it's okay. And the one who says that because of the 2 bracelets there's going to be 4 of them, which is going to raise the price for the urban population -- no, you have to shake the milk sector a little bit. So, guys, let's support it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u213	Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich, Fatherland. Passes the word to Kirilenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u214	Dear friends! Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. To say that a catastrophic situation is nothing to say, I think it's crossed the line of non-return. During a six - year period, current headheads have been reduced to as many as they have been taken together in the previous two years. And, dear fellows, while the meager, demeaning price for peasants is milk, milk in Ukraine is the most expensive thing in the world. This is hard to believe because it is produced within a 200 - km radius! Guys, that's how we got to that level. In fact, it's not a market mechanism -- it's forcing the government to set a price, but there's no other way out. Colleagues, there are dairy producers, and I see him and Nesterenko Vadim Grigorovich, a national deputy with a large head mass. 5 bracelets is the cash price he buys that milk at, because a large array is a waste! Five bucks, think what I'm saying! This is a large array of milk, a large array of cattle. That's because today's milk prices at the cost of gas, fuel, fertilizer prices last year. And this year, what are the prices? So absolutely right colleagues who said that we don't set ceilings, but we set the minimum price, the minimum price, and it should be higher. And in general, right here on the table of the Supreme Council of the dairy development program. Otherwise, my friends, tomorrow instead of dairy, we'll drink palm oil sweetened, sweetened with additives and so on and so forth. We're wasted, kids!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u215	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Jurik Taras Zinovyovich. He's handing it over to the boy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, we, deputy majors, when we come to the county in agricultural areas, question number one is the price of milk. It's a social issue, because if a lot of urban people can go $10-20 and get money, fast money, for rural people, it's the same product that's being exchanged for money right now. And that doesn't mean that milk producers, they're going to pay this money, this long-established infrastructure, they're going to drive milk trucks from the yard to the yard. And when we're able to raise the price from 2 to 4 bracelets, it'll at least give the villagers a chance to talk to those middlemen. Because the price is shaped like this: now 2 bracelets -- in peasants, 8 bracelets -- in a factory, some part takes the middleman and then in a broken net -- 15 bracelets. Question: To give the peasants the opportunity at least to get the minimum to make it at the level of self-sustainment that this money has. They can quickly give money to their children so that they can go to the district center to give them the coins so that they can live in hostels and buy the small ones. provide opportunities for peasants to survive. So I ask you very carefully to address this question. The economy is clear. And if we've rejected Law 0901 today, which provided for a price settlement by the Cabinet of Ministers, let's regulate it by law, and between the first and second readings we'll create the ability to index this minimum price quarterly. And that's going to be the solution to this social issue. It's very important, and I ask you all to support 2089.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u217	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Papiev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u218	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the political party of the Opposition Block will vote in favour of this Act on the establishment of a minimum fixed price for the purchase of milk. And even though this is contrary to 116 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. Because the authority to set a fixed price refers to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, executive authorities, and local authorities. I think that the Supreme Council is forced to adopt this law today in connection with the government’s inaction, because the government has withdrawn from this problem, and voting for this law will confirm the government’s mistrust in agricultural and agrarian politics. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u219	Please, Sergey Ruddick from the non-fractional, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u220	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila, Kamenka, Cherkas region Dear colleagues, two months ago, I turned to the government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the same issue. A note came from APC’s signature, Pavlenko, that a violation of the mentioned question is not possible in your version, that is, setting a minimum price, because it would distort competition in the market. We adopted a bill yesterday to regulate the circulation of beer. I'm asking myself, all of us, why don't peasants have milk? Maybe we have beer in the village, then? Of course, it's a question I asked wrong, I made it a joke, but you can't joke about the village anymore. I'm proposing this bill to set 5 bracelets -- the extra price of milk per liter, you know, 4.50 -- the first species, the minimum, the minimum, the emphasis, the non-fatal, the minimum -- 4.25, this is the first species, and 4 bracelets is the second. That's the only way we can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear Society, you are one minute away from the co-authors Rosenblatt and Oksana Jurinec. One minute, please. Well, that's what your faction requires, society. Please, Rosenblatt, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you one thing. Today in the Supreme Council, there are a lot of laws that are aimed at supporting people today, but I want you to remember one thing that is forming the market, and the market should always be first and foremost. Today Ukraine has lost a lot of markets and I want to tell you one more time, understand, I am today to set the minimum price. But one thing you need to understand is that the price has to settle all the questions. And that's why the processors have to take an active part. So if no one really buys it, we'll lose that milk at all. And I want no one to forget that. So this is a very important question. Count all sides of the conflict, not just one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u223	30 seconds to Oksana Jurinec. And we vote. Please, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u224	Dear fellow MPs! I represent the city district of Lviv. But I'm telling you the secret that there's milk in Lviv, too. And when we talk about the market we're talking about, the market is the same thing as the market. This is not a parliamentary function. As an economist, it's probably wrong. But today we need to think about that simple peasant. And that's why this initiative has been in place for six months. It's not competition, it's an opportunity to see everyone in the village today who still has this cow. Asking everyone not to speak, but to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u225	Thank you. So let's go to the vote. I'll bet the vote in a row. First 2089, then 2089-1. I am therefore the first to vote on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on government regulation of the purchase price of milk and village support, 2089. I would like to propose that the bill be voted on as a basis. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[13:53:26]] For 227 Decision taken. Accordingly, I no longer put 2089-1 to the vote so that the authors can work on preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues! Now we have seven minutes. And I'm on the right to continue for 15 minutes the work of our session. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm asking you, guys, attention! Don't make any noise, don't make any noise. Olya, please. There is now one short important bill. Draft Order on Commemorative Dates in 2015 at higher educational institutions in Ukraine Today is the last day and the time when we can accept it. It's a very short and simple bill. He will be briefed by Deputy Greenwich Lilia. I very much ask you to stay in the hall. Support me. Can we please not make any noise, dear fellows? Can you focus and focus on your work? I ask you to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:55:02]] For 201 So we voted in favour of the shorter procedure. And I'd like to invite the reporter, Lilia Greenevich, to the floor. It's a very short bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, in 2015 they meet their anniversary dates at a number of universities. We are obliged to vote on these dates before going out on vacation. I call it the 140th anniversary of the founding of the Chernobyl National University of Federkovic; 130th since the founding of the Kharkiv National Technical University; 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National University of Water Management and the use of the city of Raven. And I would also like to introduce another higher education institution, which has not been included in the decision. This is a 210-year-old girl from the founding of Mikoli Gogol State University. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare and support the 2015 Order on Commemorative Dates at Ukraine’s higher educational institutions, with the additions announced by Lilia Greenevich, head of the committee, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s stand under the transcript (number 2457). Based on what? On the basis and in general. Please vote, please support, Your Honor. Please be supportive. [[13:56:57]] For 252 Thank you. 252 - the decision is made. And, dear colleagues, there is still a short decision to assign parliamentary hearings. I very much ask to support its consideration, it is also very short, it is only the purpose of parliamentary hearings. I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure, please vote. Please. For a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:57:32]] For-191 Decision taken. Please, Halasyuk. Make a brief and concise report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u228	Honorable colleagues, holding parliamentary hearings in support of small, medium - size business on September 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u229	Thank you for the thorough report. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Development of Business in Ukraine and Support for Small and Medium Business (2132a) is on the vote. Please be supportive. Please. Please be supportive. [[13:58:29]] For 232 Decision taken. And the last, indeed, final decree, society, we have two minutes of time. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on technical expertise in construction work and on the effectiveness of budget use in building bridge crossings across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. I'm asking for a shorter procedure to support it. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[13:59:12]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich, report. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u230	Great friends! A group of foreign MPs want to find out where the money went to the bridge. Because the money that was allocated, the bridges could be built, not across, but up to Kremenczuk. So please give us an opportunity to deal with this situation. The main thing is that bridges are starting to collapse. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u231	There is, please, Pinzenik, right here, get out of here. Don't run away from here. Okay. Pinzenik, please, 30 seconds for a lineup. Pinzenic, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction supports this draft Order with clarification. She proposes to be part of the committee of national deputies Vanata and Romanovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u233	Thank you. So there is a request to support the draft Decree establishing the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (number 2517), which was amended by Paul Pinzenik from the microphone under the transcript. And I ask who supports this decision to vote. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Please cancel the vote, please cancel. Please, from the Radical Party, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u234	The Radical Party faction supports the draft decision and proposes to include a commission to investigate theft during the construction of closed bridges from the Denis Silantiev Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u235	Opposition Block, please who7 Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u236	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The opposition block faction will support this. And to investigate the theft of the budget, we offer Galchenk Andrija Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-15-m0.u237	Thank you. So under the stenogram, proposals were made for representatives of factions on this committee. With these proposals in mind, I would like to support the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission (2517). Vote please, Your Honor. Please, let's vote. [[14:01:54]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, congratulations! Today we have shown an example that we can spend a full-time workday in the hall on Wednesday, and I wish everyone good work on committees, fruitful. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we meet in the hall to continue our work, not as simple as it is necessary for the country. Thank you, good-bye.
