ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u1	Good afternoon, noble national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues! We're starting our morning session. All national deputies please take their seats, prepare for registration. Now we're going to register the national MPs, start a day-to-day review. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're starting our plenary session. Please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Please. [[10:04:53]] 289 National Deputies in the Hall, 292 National Deputies in the Hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Before we begin our session, I would like to personally welcome our colleague, National Deputy Valery Packan, on my birthday! Congratulations, colleague! Good luck, best of luck! [[Applause]] He's in the hall right now, welcome! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I want to make an announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Ukraine's Only Regional Orthodox Church" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Ukraine's Only District Orthodox Church" was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Igorovich Ariev. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups. Please prepare for the factions and groups. Please register. Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'll start with the situation in eastern Ukraine. More than two months have passed since the signing of the Minsk Accords, but Parliament has never been able to pass the necessary laws to implement these decisions in order to preserve the peace and lives of Ukrainians. The Opposition Block has developed and requires the adoption of a package of peace laws that will help normalize the situation, bring people back to Donbas and restore such a normal life. To that end, we propose to lift the economic blockade, restore social benefits, all the more so that there is a proper court decision. We demand that these laws be placed in the hall as a priority, and then Ukrainian society will see who really wants peace and who wants war. We hope everyone in this room agrees that Donbas is the territory of Ukraine and that our Ukrainian citizens live there. The branch of the International Monetary Fund called the "Government of Ukraine" continues to be a social genocide and will destroy our citizens, primarily pensioners. The Opposition Block has passed a whole series of laws that would allow this dead grip to be softened. We demand that tariff lawlessness be stopped and that urgent measures be taken to index pensions, social benefits for the least protected citizens. Taking into account the number of political killings that took place in the country, the absence of the results of the Odessa tragedy investigation on May 2, which we have repeatedly asked about in parliamentary inquiries. On Friday, we request that we hear a report from the Parliament of the leaders of the force on these resonating events in order for people to know the truth. And in conclusion, honourable deputies. I have in my hands the Order of the Battle Red Flag number 174772. They were rewarded with the company commander of the 79th shooting division, our countryman, Dmitri Petrovich Stadnuk, who first defended Kiev, then liberated Ukraine, was wounded under Poltava. According to Law 2558, which was adopted by the governing coalition of this veteran and a hundred identical families deprive us of the ability to wear, preserve relics that are expensive, including rewards. We think it's an adopted law that breaks the country. That's why we urge the President of Ukraine to apply the veto to this law, and if this does not happen, we leave the right to challenge the acts of this law to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u3	Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, I do not know if any of you have paid attention yesterday to the statement made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation of Lavrov, who literally sounds like: "After Ukraine has passed the decommunization laws of Ukraine, Ukraine should not even complain about the unitary device of the State." I don't know, respected colleagues, like any of you, and I think millions of Ukrainian citizens are strongly opposed to living by instructions from Moscow or anywhere from abroad. And I'm surprised by the lack of response from the Ukrainian authorities, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the President's Office, the government's office to similar harsh statements of interference in Ukraine's internal affairs. Why are we in Moscow or somewhere we should be talking about what we should be stuttering about? Whether to complain about your territorial arrangement, or to complain about your Ukrainian language, or to complain about a single church, or to complain about democratic rights, about the economy, and everything else. Why do we have to be told from abroad what we should be stuttering about? I believe that similar statements may sound exactly like the implementation of the mine protocols, where there is a change in the Constitution, acceptance of the special status of Donbas, recognition of terrorists. So the mine protocols allow us to complain or not to stutter. I think similar statements are shameful, cynical interference with the internal affairs of the sovereign state. Similar claims demean Ukrainians. Similar statements show that Russia is not merely taking a top view of Ukraine’s neighbouring state, but that Russia continues to pursue its imperialist, expatriate policy of depriving Ukraine of independence. I don't know which one of you guys might like to be the representatives of the burglary block when they're being dictated from Moscow, what they're going to complain about. So Bojko came out and stuttered, and more specifically, he lied about the fact that veterans were denied the right to wear orders. It's not in the law. Do not lie or stutter at the direction of Moscow. And I encourage the Ukrainian authorities to make decisions in the interests of the country without looking at the foreign centers where these instructions would not go. Because no one will do us any good unless we do ourselves. No one will respect us if we do not respect ourselves. And when a minister with a horse’s face tells us to stutter or not to stutter, and we remain silent, we despise ourselves. I won't let that happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u5	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! History repeats itself until its lessons are studied. In 1941, we were attacked by ignorant people, and these ignorant fascists occupied Crimea. Last year, the Ukrainian Crimea was attacked by the noblest and occupied by the Ukrainian Crimea. The story repeats itself: both the source and the occupation are the totalitarian regime, which considered the right to be far superior to the power of law. Ukraine has a hard time producing a drop of totalitarianism. One serious step was the adoption by the Ukrainian Parliament of the Law of Condemnation and the Inadmissibility of Totalitarian Propaganda. Responding to a cynical, lying statement by an occupying representative, I'm sorry, "The Opposition Block," and I want to say that you have the grandson of two grandfathers who met each other in 1945 under the Reichstag. I voted to destroy the Stalinic symbolism that paved the way for the 1945 victory by millions of corpses, and today the metastases continue to poison our country’s future. Bloody skeletons in the living room must stop holding hands and feet for Ukraine’s future. The cities of Ukraine must have their original names. To all who are in pain for Soviet history, I propose that we immediately initiate the renaming of Donetsk to Stalin, and Luganska to Voroshilovgrad, and rejoice in that Soviet history under the influence of the "temporary invaders" of the Kremlin. We will live on our land, where there are Ukrainian names, Ukrainian history, Ukrainian pride for our victory in 1945 and our victory over the invaders in the near future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u7	Please, Rebirth, Nichiporenko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u8	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Please tell me, during the electoral campaign, which of the political forces did not promise to fight corruption and decentralisation of power, which majorist did not say? Who did not say that the earth should be handed over to local authorities? Everyone said that, and everyone promised it! A national MP, Kulinic, of the Rebirth Group, passed Bill 1159, which provides for the administration of local self-government. Five times, five times, the bill was introduced into the agenda, but it was one of the things that never happened. You know, we've already created the Anti-Corruption Bureau -- it's very right. But the Anti-Corruption Bureau has to focus not only on fighting corruption, but on corruption itself, on the mechanisms that enable corruption. I'll get you some figures -- what the land agency does, not the land agency, but some of its coworkers. The city of Kiev: a $200,000 bribe, 200,000 for 4 hectares of land to be used. The city of Kyiv: Illegally removed 32 hectares [32 ha] Lviv: 147 thousand dollars worth of bribes! Peanut: $12,000 a bribe! Carbage: 5.5 million were allocated from the budget to inventory 30,000 hectares of land, and the documents were faked. Kharkiv: Nine acres [9 ha] of land illegally, 65 million dollars worth of property! Grizzly: 80,000 bribes to a representative of the State Land Agency. This is just the beginning of a list of what the representatives of the State Land Agency are doing. Now, remember, when there was no State Land Agency that Janukovic invented, was there such a corruption of the earth? It wasn't. Therefore, the Rebirth Group requires that one of the urgent issues of Bill 1159 be included in this plenary session and that everyone determine whether he is in the fight against corruption or not, or whether he is in favour of decentralization or not? Talk about decentralization.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u9	Please, Victoria Sumar, Fatherland. People's Front, excuse me. Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u10	Thank you, colleagues. It is evident that there is a hybrid war against Ukraine today, and we literally see it every day. This is not just the full - scale military action that takes place in the eastern part of Ukraine, where there is no fire. This is an information war built on propaganda, on outright lies, on false claims, on interference with internal affairs, as Oleg Lazko spoke about. Unfortunately, it is also terrorism, and the various bloody provocations that an aggressor, the Russian Federation, is making. Once again, we see the country entering a period of turbulence associated with May festivals. We see that last week there was a whole series of resonance events in Ukraine, these are resonance killings that are trying to use in this hybrid war to stir up the situation to intimidate both the East and the South. So the People's Front faction requires us to listen to the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, on Friday, about what the authorities are doing today in order to allow May holidays in Ukraine to pass peacefully and in two keys. To ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens, this is important because we remember the great tragedy that took place in Odessa on May 2, and it is not excluded that there may be another disruption. On the other hand, it is very important that Ukrainian festivals and May 9th and May 8th are held at the heart of Ukrainian ideological tradition. How can we win an ideological war? It's also about strengthening resilience, but it's also about being able to formulate your own ideological position, Ukrainian ideology, the Ukrainian history that we're going to have to recreate today on the basis of Ukrainian traditional values. And Ukrainian values are peace, not war. We can only win a hybrid war if we are alone, and in this room we have at this difficult time, during a period of turbulence, to demonstrate today the maximum unity of all the pro-European democratic forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u12	These are the moments when two lawyers from Eromaydan Tetjana Kozachenko and Dmitry Dimov are searched. These are people who were convinced, not immediately, after many discussions, to go to state authority to do illustrations. I think that's a very good illustration of what's going on in the country right now. In this connection, on behalf of Self-Help, I would like to say the following: first, colleagues, it is very important for us to stop the rematch that the Attorney General is trying to carry out with the help of unwitting representatives of the government. It's very important for us to stop trying to prevent this monster from being turned into a "breather," the main "breather" of corruption, into a normal European prosecutor's office. We've adopted this legislation and let's not take any steps back. The other one. I thank all the Parliamentary colleagues who came to the Constitutional Court last week to stop the rematch. The Constitutional Court is now a place that is in dire need of cleansing and threatens the existence of our state. For those of you who don't know, I'm going to say, 12 of the 17 judges of the Constitutional Court are still the people of Victor Yanukovich. At any time they can recognize him as president, they can join Ukraine in Russia, they can come up with any decision that people who put them there will ask them. So the second important task for us is to continue the cleansing of power. The cleansing of the Constitutional Court should be one of the priorities. This is a very simple step. For a year now, the Attorney General’s Office has been unable to investigate the involvement of the judges of the Constitutional Court in the usurping of the power of Viktor Yanukovic. Let us organize parliamentary control over the completion of this investigation, expel Yanukovich’s people from the Constitutional Court, and open up to them good, normal cells in prison. And the third. Now under the walls of Parliament, citizens, the most active, the most educated, the most conscious citizens are asking us not to take the path of reforming law enforcement. Let's thank them and ask us to introduce the normal candidates to the High Council of Justice. So that we can delegate to the Supreme Council the justice of not our own people who work in related law firms or, God forbid, represent a deputy corps so that we can send in real lawyers who will go through public scrutiny and together clean up justice. Guys, let's go! Don't go back!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u13	Igor Jeremeyev, Igor Mironovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u14	Ukrainian people! Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In recent weeks, loud political events and the constant waves of populism have apparently constantly lost information about the economic situation in the country. We all remember how after receiving another tranche of the International Monetary Fund, the government stated that it would now be a way to pay off external debt, and all the budget revenues that would be surplus, we could spend, we could use it for social benefits. And this is literally the last week of the Deputy Minister of Finance said to the whole state that the budget for the first quarter of the year in the state is set at 3.6 billion dollars, that the income of the Ukrainian budget today has increased by 37 percent, that the average wage in comparison to last year's in the first quarter has increased by 15 percent. If this information is true and if it is not another kind of compassion, it is now time to raise the question of social pay indexation. The "will of the people" faction has registered several bills on the indexation of the minimum pension, the minimum wage. We have repeatedly insisted that this issue be addressed in the first quarter of this year. We are again addressing the government: we hope that a bill on minimum pension index and minimum wage index will be introduced in May this year. All the deputies elected in the districts are received by letters from voters as to how they should live from the first to the thirtieth of the month. And we hope that the government will hear us -- and this bill will be passed, and if it's not there, a bill will be considered, which was passed by the faction "The will of the people." We hope that as soon as possible, there will be the necessary events that will allow people to get that minimum amount of money to pay for utilities to buy food that has become more expensive today. I stress that inflation today in the first quarter of this year has accounted for nearly 120 percent. And this is essential today for the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u15	Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u16	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Indeed, today virtually everyone who stood on this rostrum mentioned that Ukraine throughout the democratic Western world is now holding back the aggression perpetrated by the Russian Federation. But we can be strong at this moment only on one condition: if we are all alone and if the people of Ukraine understand this fight clearly and that we are all fighting together. And only then will the people be with the politicians, along with the army, along with all of us, when they feel that there is fundamental justice in the country. If the people who are fighting on the fronts today know that their mothers, their parents, their families are in justice, protected and can live, unfortunately, today is not the case. We all realize that countries have to endure this stage. Reforms must be difficult. But today, our team is fighting excessive cruelty in the social and economic sphere, against the radical injustice that is. Today, people see two things. First. There is widespread corruption in the country, shadow money, dishonest money, and monopolies in the country. At this time, the last cents are taken from the Ukrainians ’ pockets. I now have two documents in my hands that Ukraine received today on tariffs. It's a declaration, a statement and an instruction on how to fill it out. It takes at least two higher educations to avoid making mistakes. Because our government officials have modestly attributed that if, God forbid, people have filled out this declaration or claim falsely, they must, I quote, "return the over-calculated amount of the subsidy in double size"! This means that people today are even afraid to fill out these documents. At the same time, however, our team makes it clear that the tariffs set today are not market-based and are not optimal and objective. They are another powerful tax collected from the country today. And so I want to tell the country right now that, by our common insistence, a special task force has been set up to investigate the objectivity of setting tariffs. And we as members of this group will not be able to falsify any numbers. We've sent requests to all state institutions at NAC Naftogaz. And starting tomorrow, we're going to take out every penny and force the government to set up objective market aggregates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u17	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u18	But not excessively harsh tariffs. And we're going to get a reduction in tariffs, I'm sure. And I want to call on everyone to be co-conspirators, to stop corruption, and to return to people real reasonable tariffs, as well as non-taxable pensions. I believe we can do this. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, speaking out of MPs and factions is over. According to the schedule that was published and the last meeting of the Conciliation Council, which took place today at 9 a.m., a number of drafts are brought to your attention for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We've decided not to vote separately on each bill, very many different laws, and allow the committees to consider them all, to make a joint decision now to put them into the agenda, namely. Please be prepared, Your Honor, to be considered. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session and for adoption of the legislative decisions, registration numbers 2665, 2666, 2667. Next, for inclusion in the order of sessions: 2464, 2461, 2285, 2493, 2089, 2089-1, 2527, 2655, 2181, 2292, 1888, 2500, 2553, 2667 (I said so), 2668, 2030, 2234, 2335, 2132, 2436, 2576, 2617, 2168, 2640, 2166, 2313, 2343, 2067, 2114, 2332, 1793, 2011, 2528, 1164, 21. We're finishing 2332. So according to the transcript 2114, this bill that. 2114 is the end of the agenda. Then all that has been reported on the Conciliation Council will be finalized by these bills and I will continue to make proposals for inclusion. And they don't need to be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u20	They don't need to be included. What is it? We'll talk about this in private, I'll put it again. Please, Matthew's National MP. Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u21	I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u22	Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u23	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, for giving the floor to the opposition. We would like, my fellow Members, to point out that this session hall is now making up such a bad practice, we're including a package, we're batch voting for a number of legislative initiatives. As representatives of the opposition, we have insisted, insist, and insist that you comply with the Ukrainian Law on the Rules. This is not part of Ukraine's Pro Rules Act to vote by batch vote. We are a number of legislative initiatives, of course we support, which are aimed at raising the social standard, increasing the investment attractiveness of our economy. But some legislative initiatives, we're going against them, and we want to make our arguments. Therefore, we call for each bill to be voted on separately and not to violate the Rules. We're begging you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u24	We should stress that this is a question of inclusion in the agenda. During the discussion, you will be determined. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We propose to include Bill 2676 in the agenda of our sittings, which is to automatically charge subsidies to the LHC, so that people do not form them, but to automatically form them on the basis of the Pension Fund, tax and social services. We also propose to include in the agenda Bill 2671, this is about amending the Fair Court Act in order to stop the authorization of Constitutional Court judges who raped the Constitution in 2010, helping Yanukovic to usurp power and continue to work now. We also propose to include 2497 in the agenda, this is about the nationalization of the property of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. We think it's a disgrace when Russia occupied our Crimea today, killing our people on Donbas. There's another explosion in Kharkiv tonight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u26	2497. Thank you. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues, please add the daily bill 2672. This bill refers to amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to improve government procurement. In view of the fact that the introductory company is about to begin, it is vital that we make these changes in time. So we ask him to put it in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, from the interfractional merger of "Equal Opportunities", which brings together women MPs, we ask that you be included in the agenda of the two bills 2254 and 2015, concerning the improvement of assistance to children who are in difficult circumstances in life. This is true of children, who, for example, were evacuated from occupied areas, who were in the ATO area, where their documents were lost, how much faster to help them form adoptions and things like that. I would like to point out that these bills have passed all the relevant hearings according to the Rules of Procedure on the Professional Committees, and they can be placed on the agenda of the day 2254, 2015, concerning the support of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u30	Please, Ivan Krulko. Prepare, please, for the vote, your honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u31	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! The Fatherland faction proposes to include in the order of the daily session 2 very important draft regulations under numbers 2570, 2571. They refer to the first draft of the Order, regarding the execution of the agreements and the obligations and exchange of all prisoners, and according to the release of Hope Savchenko from beyond Moscow. And the second draft of Decree 2571 is about the application of personal sanctions against those responsible for the kidnapping, smuggling illegally to Russia and the detention of Nadia Saucenko. These two draft regulations are requested to be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, what the colleagues announced: 2676, 2671, 2497, 2672, 2254, 2015, 2570 and 2571, is a question for inclusion in the agenda. And before that, under the transcript, I said about the proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making and the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and counting the numbers. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself and you will be given an offer to form a day order according to the suggestions I made under the transcript, including the results of the Conciliation Council, which took place today at 9 a.m. Please vote in general, Your Honor, for the bill. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:40:38]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First question, dear fellows! The draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement "On Countering Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation and Overcoming Its Consequences". The draft national deputy, Oksana Siroid, is the author's proposal to report on the reduced procedure. Fellows, I'd like you to concentrate carefully. Please have the author's proposal for a reduced voting procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. [[10:41:41]] For-200 Decision taken. Please, Oxana Ivanovna Siroid, 1793. 2332, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I have the honour to present to you the joint work of representatives of all factions of the coalition of the Order, which is called "Consistence of Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation and Overcoming Its Consequences." Unfortunately, war has become an everyday thing for Ukraine, but it does not relieve us of the responsibility to seek both ways to end war and the liberation of our captives, and to demand compensation for all the damage caused by Russia. The purpose of the draft decision is thus to create a legal basis for Ukraine’s consolidated claim to the Russian Federation in connection with the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. The ruling is in fact the first consolidated parliamentary document to preface the chronology of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, particularly the first legal document to mark the date of the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war on February 20, 2014. In addition, the decree contains a consolidated list of all international obligations that Russia has breached during this period. The decision then also contains the negative effects that Ukraine suffered as a result of the war, the occupation of Ukrainian territory, and the material damage caused by Russia, and human sacrifices, and human rights violations. Finally, the decree contains a list of requirements that Ukraine will consistently insist on in order to overcome the consequences of Russian aggression. In particular, the Supreme Council’s ruling expresses its gratitude to the people of Ukraine and to the entire volunteer community for the unselfish, sincere and effective support of the Armed Forces and the armed militias of Ukraine. I also want to point out that this document is particularly important in the future and for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u34	Please don't limit it, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u35	In order, inter alia, to decide in the future on a derogation from Ukraine’s obligations, both in occupied territories and in territories where an anti - terrorism operation is being carried out, as well as in other decisions, to pursue another policy, Ukraine’s foreign policy. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u36	Please invite John Klimpus-Cincadze, deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting considered the decision of the National Deputys of Ukraine, Siroid, Gopko, Boriszuk and others on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "On countering the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and overcoming its consequences" (registration No. 2332). The need to adopt this decree is due to the need for official recognition by the Ukrainian Parliament of the fact of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. And we need to determine the extent, consequences, and requirements associated with this aggression. This statement will provide a legal basis for Ukraine's consolidated claims to the Russian Federation as a result of these international legal acts. The application should become part of Ukraine’s pretentious work in the international arena. As a result of consideration at its meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the need to adopt such a statement. And taking into account the comments made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the above-mentioned draft Order be adopted on the basis and in general, and that it approve the statement "On countering the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and overcoming its consequences" with amendments and additions proposed by the Committee. I'd like to support you on behalf of the committee. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Please sign two for, two for, "against." Please, National Deputy Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u39	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. This morning, I killed my grandmother, so Franklin Delano Roosevelt often started his speeches to get everyone's attention and heard him. I would very much like for you to hear me and hear me. What Parliament is currently considering this Order is that every deputy who does not vote on the Order on the Supreme Council's draft declaration against Russia's armed aggression is a vat, it's an agent of the Kremlin, and it's a fifth column. Or it's a person who doesn't care, a person who doesn't care, because war goes on several fronts and one of the most important is international. Now our fellow patriots are defending the nation's honour during the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we in Parliament today must show more unity, solidarity and support than ever before. And whoever of you doesn't vote is either a Moscow agent or someone they spit on. And Dante Aligheri correctly wrote that the hottest places in hell were for those who maintained their neutrality at the time of opposition. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar. Self-help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u41	The problems of war, the fight against corruption and the implementation of real reforms have been and will be critical issues that need to be addressed urgently. After Lozov’s words, it is difficult to add and be relevant, and even more so to draw attention to this decision by the deputies of the Hall and the people of Ukraine. And so Self-Help will support this project and ask other MPs to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think everyone has expressed their position. The draft decision is made, you have heard the arguments of the reporter and the co-rapporteur, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, your honorary colleagues. I ask all colleagues to prepare themselves for the vote, to your consideration of voting on the basis, and a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the armed aggression of the Russian Federation has been tabled. As a whole, take into account the committee’s proposals. Please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[10:49:55]] For 259. Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. 259. To your consideration, honourable colleagues have introduced a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Services, which has created a real or potential threat to Ukraine's national security in the military sphere (registration number 1793). The author of the bill, Arthur Gerasimov, proposed that the bill be considered in a simplified manner. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to consider a reduced procedure. Please. Review of the simplified procedure. [[10:50:47.]] For-200 Decision taken. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich, report. Please listen very carefully to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! On January 22, after 242 days of defense, the last defenders left Donetsk Airport. Everyone knows that this was preceded by a failed attempt to unblock it, during which in one column most military equipment stopped due to technical failures. In the summer of 2014, at least 67 military personnel were killed or injured by the purchase of armoured vests that did not meet the necessary protection class. Hundreds of such cases! Anyone who has communicated with platoon commanders, mouths, battalions can tell a lot of sad stories about how people died in combat because of technology or equipment. Bill 1793 is designed to respond at the right time to the threats to Ukraine's national security in the military sphere, because we sincerely believe, we sincerely believe that providing inadequacy to the war zone today is not neglect or fraud, it's a threat to the national security of the country, it's a threat to our security. The adoption of the bill will enable the creation of a more effective, I stress, effective mechanism to stop violations of legislation in this area. During the drafting of this revised bill, we took into account the committee’s comments. Yes, this bill does not involve volunteers, a refined concept of severe consequences, a refined understandable apparatus with regard to standards or technical regulations, a clearly defined consequence. The bill aims to make it impossible for Ukraine’s Armed Forces to reduce their resilience due to inadequacy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a military commander should not think every day, but how many war machines are going to start today. Dear colleagues, please support this bill on the basis of a reduced deadline for preparing for the second reading. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u44	Don't limit it, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u45	And I'm also paying attention to you. Much to many in this room I approached. A lot of people talked to me about the importance of this bill. Please, let's protect our military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u47	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, have been considered by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Gerasimov, Stotnik, Logwine Draft Law on the Amendment to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Field of Conformity, Production, Production, Implementation, Production, Work and Services, which has created a real or potential threat to national security in the field of war. The project proposes to supplement the Criminal Code with article 114-2, which establishes responsibility for: firstly, causing harm to the service person to Ukraine’s national security in the military sphere by violating legislation, or, if such acts are committed under the previous conspiracy of a group of persons who, or have caused serious consequences, part two of article 114-2. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the bill needs substantial work. The meeting committee decided to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u48	Please sign in, two for, two against. Please, Slippery Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to say that there are many facilities in Ukraine that are subordinated to the Ministry of Defense, as well as civilian facilities that are being treated today by military personnel and officers and sergeants, a senior warehouse. And you who have met know what these people are talking about innocuous weapons, innocuous means of defense. And we believe that those who continue to do so must be severely punished. Therefore, we are convinced that today this bill must be adopted and voted in the first reading, further amendments and additions to it according to the comments. But he deserves to be taken seriously and supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Silantiev, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Oksana Korchinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u52	Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports this bill in its first reading. It's extremely necessary. We ask him, indeed, for a brief procedure to prepare him for consideration of the second reading. Because, as always, we have queues in the country to go to the solicitation committees of our power agencies for purchase, but no one is responsible for non-profit production. This is essential for all our ATO fighters. I ask all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u54	Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u55	Thank you. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I would like to focus on what will now be voted on in the hall, on the responsibility for purchasing inequitable products of defence. This is not about making non - quality products but about purchasing them. What is behind this legislative initiative today? These are the complaints of military personnel about some sort of weapon and equipment that kills people. For me, the question today is completely different. Throughout the period since the ATO, the ministries, and the tender committees are personally responsible for the profession of those who join the coalition today. Today, for a commission that will engage in corruption, this law is a reason to believe that there is a recognition of the corruption of the people who have purchased inequitable products today. And at the same time, it would be logical not only to make a law, but today, from day one, to set up personally all those who contributed to the purchase of innocuous weapons that led to the death of military personnel. Today it's, you know, a reaction to double standards, on the one hand, we're in a terrible state of crisis for the army and we're not going through the first month, but at the same time, someone is buying some kind of weapon consciously. Therefore, I think it would be logical today to give a personal commission to raise all those responsible for the acquisition of inequitable products first to carry out the activities of the ATO in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u57	The Self-Help faction voted in favour of supporting this bill as a basis, although I personally see it as non-systemic. Because the issue of impossibility of corruption itself in the process of purchasing, producing weapons, equipping, other things that are needed not only by the Armed Forces, but by other power forces that are not developed, not implemented. We're still working on old schemes, we're working on peacetime schemes, we still don't see the threat as real, we haven't changed any tendering procedures in power units, we haven't changed people in these tender commissions. I'm going to insist that we put in place systems to prevent corruption in such things. And on the contrary, there are things that no one is allowed to know, such as buying some high-precision weapon as an element of high-tech weapons. For example, when we have every prosecutor to ask for the Light and get information about the purchase, for example, of the ingredient that determines what quantity we actually have of that weapon. It's actually a state secret, and we're going to tell every prosecutor about it. Such things should also be made impossible. It's just to stop the D.A. from requiring that information. We have many nonsystemic things like this law. It needs to be read, processed, changed, and made with great care in purchasing for the use of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u58	Colleagues, please be careful. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front, then Arthur Gerasimov and Rosenblatt's National Deputy. Ah, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u59	People of Ukraine. Hello, listen. People of Ukraine, it's very strange to hear all the chatter going in the hall right now. I don't understand if we are the Parliament of the warring Ukraine or the ballet group of neutral Switzerland. Thousands of people died on the frontlines because of some freaks who made millions of dollars selling nonprofit products for war. And we think about how to punish them. Until this whole scoundrel under the laws of wartime is shot, until it's over, we have to. Our President announced twice, once in this room, the second time on Easter, that there is a national war going on. I demand that traitors be shot by the laws of wartime. If we don't do this, we'll never stop it. We're not stopping.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, a national MP. I think we'll give the author a word in the end. Please, National Deputy Rosenblatt, then Yuri Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u61	Dear friends, I want to remind you once again, we have allocated 90 billion dollars this year to support our defenses. We sent this money to Ucroborprom to improve the quality of our goods that go to the front today. You know, in Soviet times, there was an article called "For Harmfulness." And you know, when today comes the technique of inadequacy, they suffer, first of all, people. The people we took from our pensions to give up on the soldiers are suffering. And on the other hand, those who receive this technique suffer. What I'm paying very much attention to is the Ministry of Defense, the acceptance of this technique that comes from the defense factories, please pay attention to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u63	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. It's actually a very important bill, it would be good if we looked at more of these bills. There are only two moments in it that need to be corrected for the second reading in order to make it much better, in fact, to make it real and effective. First, the responsibility for these actions should extend only to the public officials who organized the purchases and suppliers of non-quality materials. This responsibility should not apply to volunteers and voluntary military equipment, since it is ruled out voluntarily, both by volunteers and by military personnel. So we need to get the volunteers out of this law first. And secondly, the problem here is that the bill proposes to understand, under the heavy consequences, only the deaths of military personnel. For example, disability, such as the detection of inadequacies by the time health effects occur, is not designed to narrow down its functions and significantly reduces the ability to detect such inadequacies. Therefore, these are things that need to be brought about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u64	Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm going to answer two questions. Volunteers are now out of this law. But if there's any possibility that they might be punished, of course we're working on it. Secondly, this law is established in such a way that no prosecutor can get it, so it's going to be the subject of the Security Service, there's a lot of issues that relate to military secrecy. But I would like to stress once again that we will consider it necessary to communicate with anyone who wants to make additions and clarifications to this bill. Why? Because it's very important to our country, it's very important to our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, Your Honor, an important bill, please prepare your colleagues. The draft (registration number 1793) is put to the vote, and according to the conclusion of the committee it is proposed to be accepted as a basis. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor's colleagues, please prepare for the vote in 1793 as a basis, please vote, Your Honor, an important bill on the basis. [[11:06:36]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of the Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization and Mobilization (for strengthening the protection of the rights of children with disabilities), (registration No. 2011), prepared by National Deputy Irina Lucenko. There is an offer by the author to consider this bill in a simplified manner, and I ask to be determined about the consideration of the bill as a simplified procedure, with regard to the consideration of the reduced procedure, by a colleague. [[11:07:20]] For 204 Decision taken. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill continues a number of exceptions to article 23 of the Mobilization and Mobilization Act and strengthens the protection of children with disabilities during the period of mobilization when our country is protected in the East from aggression by Russia. Of course, article 65 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that every citizen's duty to protect the country is to protect our civil choice. But also article 51 of the Ukrainian Constitution stipulates that parents are obliged to support their children until they reach adulthood, family, childhood, and motherhood are protected by the State. In July 2014, we made changes to this article. But from this list, the category of children with disabilities under the age of 18, who need special care, refers to children with disabilities in subgroup "A", such children are in Ukraine 17 000 650. Not such a large number to prevent their parents from rearing them in a full - time family. Imagine when a father goes to the front, a disabled child group I is under 18 years old, and that's, quote, what diseases are related to such children, these are the pitfalls of both upper limbs, this is blindness in both eyes, this is malignant neoplasm, this is mental disorder, this is not movement of arms or legs. Imagine if such a father left his mother and child with disabilities and went to the front. The protection of the country is extremely important, but the protection of the child is even more important today. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I propose to support my bill amending article 23 as a whole, not just in the first reading, but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u68	Thank you, Irina Stepanovna. Please report to the profile committee, the head of the profile committee, Sergey Pashinsky. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u69	Good afternoon, dear fellows, Mr. Chairman! The committee considered the bill, it regulates a fairly narrow group, but the least socially unprotected and the most socially vulnerable. The committee unanimously decided to support this bill, which is the conclusion of the Chief Executive on support and the basis. But I want to support the drafter of the bill and go to the hall, support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u70	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please sign two for, two against. People's MP Lensky, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, national deputies! Unfortunately, for some reason or other, perhaps because they have hardened souls, perhaps because someone is lacking in mind, but very rarely in this room are the laws that Ukrainian citizens really need. War, strife, political opposition, we are so engrossed in that we spend 90 percent of our time on what's interesting in this room alone. Instead of voting for the laws that people need, get out of this room and go to the common people and see how they live. How do they keep those children with disabilities who get social assistance from a cop? Look at the queues in the departments today to form those subsidies! Look at the fear with which the hands shake, people take the payments in their mailboxes, go to the pharmacy, and you see that there are no people in the pharmacy. Do you think there are any people out there because they've stopped getting sick? No, there are no people in the pharmacy because they have no money to go to that pharmacy. And the poor, sick person is lying at home, dying because she can't call "Quick," she can't pay for the pills. So I urge you to come back, face the people, let's adopt social laws, let's not be covered up by crisis and war, to hide your inability to solve people's social problems. The only way to solve our country's problems is to create jobs, that's to restore national production, that's not from credit to credit that eats and steals, but that's to say young people's livelihoods: wages, decent jobs, prospects, housing -- that's when the country will have a future. So a wager on a working man, a wager on his own economy on his own country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u74	Please, National Deputy Wesselov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u75	I give the word to Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u76	Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u77	The honourable parliamentarians! Your Honour, Mr. Head! I ask you to listen carefully, this law is very important and very necessary. But I want to tell you that this law does not include the disabled of children and groups I-B, group II. I want to tell you that we have a very common group in the country that gives a group II to those who actually have a group I. How will we deal with these people? How will we deal with people who have already been mobilized and who do not? Your Honor, we have some very important questions. Because group I-A needs undoubtedly, this law needs, in some way, lawyers have to come up with, to complement group I -- B, group II, and those children of disabled people and parents who are already mobilized in fact, doing so, we're happy with all those who really need our support. So I'm asking the lawyers and the Supreme Council to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Ah, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u79	People of Ukraine! Of course, I'm not against this law. But I want to know what I'm up against. I am against the fact that there is such a conditional division in the country in simple and refined; I am against the fact that only peasants, labourers and their children must fight on the front; I am against the fact that the children of the refined are not fighting but are learning abroad; I am against the fact that the President of Ukraine sent his son to the Supreme Council as a deputy, while thousands of foreign children sent to die on the front. I am for justice in the state! Julia Volodymyrna, I have infinite respect for you, and I have great respect for you. But, you know, when you say, "Stay on the front! Stand to the last one!" – I would like to mention that we have dozens of girls fighting heroically in the Kulčicki battalion, with the highest national awards. Send your daughter July to the front of the war, and I will bow to you first and applaud every word you say! I'm against the fact that there's no one to fight on the front. And we have to take our parents away from our disabled children. I'm in charge of comparing them all, honestly: both the parents of the millionaires, and the children of the millionaires, to make them all fight! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you know, I understand the emotion of the speech. But what I want to point out is that no one is sending anyone anywhere here, and even more so are the majority MPs elected by the electorate, and more so when majority MPs gain a high percentage of confidence and come to Parliament, like many here, to work. So, please, let's be more consistent with each other, and every national MP who came to this room, he came in exactly the same way because of people's trust, no matter what his name is. Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u81	Dear fellow citizens! The Opposition Block faction, of course, will support any legislative initiatives aimed at protecting the population from forced adjectives and targeting them in accordance with some incomprehensible military conflict. But in order not to have a discussion about the targeting of people, about politicians, about other citizens with disabilities, we urge once again to take effective steps towards the peaceful settlement of the conflict and the implementation of the Minsk agreements that have been reached before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we've said enough about this law. And he's still asking for a minute. Please, Irina Lucenko. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like us to address this issue with no emotion, no dust, and no foam left. You can't just fight on the front. And by the way, Alexy Prussianko was on the front. My son, disabled by Group II, was at Donetsk Airport for 45 days. No one was throwing their clothes around, no one was tearing their clothes off. Like Habakkuk’s son, so did the Turk’s son. Like Julius Volodymyrna, Timothy’s daughter is volunteering, helping and supporting those soldiers who can hold this weapon. And this is their primary responsibility. So let's not throw hats around here and not click, "stupid man," but let's still protect those 17,000 disabled kids! No matter what family they have, no pension, no pension, no help! Let us address these issues globally. To unite where one can unite. And we're going to fight, who's got a better law!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I think Irina Stepanovna has made it very clear. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization and Mobilization (for strengthening the protection of the rights of children with disabilities) (Registration No. 2011). During the author’s report, a position was expressed in the report of the head of the committee, the proposal to vote on the bill in accordance with the Committee’s conclusion on the basis and in general. I also want to emphasize that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is also positive. Therefore, there is a proposal to vote for the bill on the basis and in general. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote and please vote. [[11:20:49]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2528. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities (for the conservation of the scientific and pedagogical human potential of Ukraine). The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich. The focal point is the head of the profile committee, Lilia Greenevich. There is an offer by the author to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please specify for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:21:37]] For 204 Decision taken. Please report to Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today we are introducing bill 2528 on the preservation of the country's scientific and educational potential. Under the conditions of war and external aggression, the country’s defence complex must be restored in order to preserve its better minds. For years the Collaborants and the Fifth Column destroyed the Ukrainian army, industry, and scientific potential. We finally entered the war naked, barefoot, barefoot, and unarmed. The scientific potential, its preservation and replication is also a weapon, perhaps even more powerful than the tanks and the City of the Armed Forces. Scientific workers who continue their research work at the age of retirement deserve the care of the state. Taking away their pensions is a crime. The country loses billions of dollars in corrupt and misdemeanor schemes. Millions of dollars are sprayed by bribes, dozens of businesses stolen by oligarchs, and privatized at no cost. That's where you have to take the money, not take the money from the scientists. On March 2, 2015, the Supreme Council passed a shameful law that deprived scientists of their pensions. This led to scientific personnel being forced to leave their scientific posts. So our task to the Ukrainian Parliament is to save the country's science, to mention the words of the Nobel Prize laureate Maria Sklodowski-Kuri, who at one time said, "Science is the foundation of all progress that simplifies the lives of mankind and reduces its suffering." Colleagues, let's not make our scientists suffer. Please support the bill and return to the scientists the pensions they have earned. Praise the Ukrainian Science! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is Lilia Greenevich. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, all who watch this meeting, we must not forget during the war that the strategic resource is science and education. And now there's been a serious mistake, which has resulted in massive layoffs from science teachers. In science and education, the legacy of experience is of great importance. I want to emphasize that a lot of pensioners work not at the full rate, but their presence is decisive in specialized scientific councils, in the management of scientific robots, and today, for example, in Kiev, 124 science and teaching staff have been released. In order to prepare a doctor of technical science, the state has to invest a lot of resources. So now we need to correct our mistake and restore the status quo of working scientific pensioners that were before these laws were passed. In this regard, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Social Policy, considering the drafting of this law, proposes to put it into a slightly different version, given that we need to adopt this law as soon as possible, I propose that we read it now under the transcript so that we can vote on the basis as a whole. And I emphasize: this is an editorial that restores the status quo of science and teaching workers that was before these laws were passed in March. That is, those working scientists who retired by 2011. There's a part of them who retired after 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u88	Don't limit yourself. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u89	But they will continue to receive a pension on a general basis, as has been the case in recent years. Thus, we correct the injustice that has been done precisely by our changes to the law. So let me read it under the transcript. To supplement part 28 of the second sentence in the following wording: "pension assigned to a person after the entry into force of the Law on the Legislative Security of the Reform of the Pension System" in accordance with this article, except for persons with disabilities I and II groups, persons with disabilities of the War III group and participants in hostilities, persons subject to article 10, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, during periods of service who grant the right to a pension in order and under the conditions provided for in this Act shall be paid in the size calculated in accordance with the Law of Ukraine on the "General Compulsory State Pension Insurance". And the second sentence, which becomes the third sentence, is to put it in a valid form, in which after the words "in office," "in work," the words "in parentheses" should be completed with the words "in addition to the cases of sentences in the first and second parts of the sentence." Please support this as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign two for, two against. Perhaps it is better to take the basis for a reduced procedure to work out so that nothing is forgotten and the law is adopted correctly, so that it works properly than is now adopted by the vote. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Because it's a very important law and I obviously understand that it's going to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u91	There is no doubt supporting this law as a law that preserves the hierarchy and continuity of science, without this science, but we also want to point out that universities have a personal responsibility to protect those who benefit and to ask those who no longer benefit to make room for those who are young and gifted scientists. We only support this law because the greatest tragedy of continuity is now in technical science, because old people carry what young people have not yet received. During the war, scientific and technical thought is particularly important and it was the most destructive in Ukraine. So we call for the support of this law, and universities to take responsibility for the quality policy of balancing young gifted people and older generations, which is the wisdom of generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Oleg Romanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present Irina Lucenko. Ah, Igor Lucenko, Fatherland. Please, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u93	Please pass it on to your colleague. Colleague Ivchenko, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u94	Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm very surprised that we're from the rostrum today, and the author of the law, and the chairman of the committee, we're saying that we made a mistake. I want to point out that it was the Fatherland faction, the only faction of the coalition, that did not vote in favour of the introduction of a new pension. Dear colleagues, at the same time, we correct our mistakes. We communicate with people, we communicate with voters. Our faction was drafted by Bill 2554 on the renewal of pension guarantees for persons in election positions and academics. We have the next thing happening today in villages and villages, where older people work in general. And today they have to be released, there are villages, there are villages where secretaries are also freed, and the territorial community is without a leader. Special attention, colleagues, and a vulnerable category are usually scientific workers, and we suggest that the restrictions on the payment of pensions be lifted for scientists during their work in other jobs. We therefore propose, colleagues, all these bills to renew the pension provision to elective positions, to unite scientists and to adopt as a whole as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u96	Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! I just wanted to remind you, my colleague from Fatherland said that someone was correcting mistakes. We are now correcting the mistakes of the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, which have not yet been realized that they have made a mistake. I was in Chercas and there was a minister, and he was asked what to do with people who created science schools and especially in the technological, political, and natural direction. And he says, "Nothing, a few thousand will free the professors, they won't die." I have a question: what, the mind was taken out of the government by the ministers who were sitting in these positions? Let them go to the Kyiv Institute, let them go to schools where there are no other professionals in the narrow technical or natural fields, there is no one to enter this direction, or this center. And this young team says it's no big deal, we're gonna throw them out and then the universities will continue to work. So we voted in favour of the Education Act, where we gave autonomy to universities, and if we gave autonomy to universities, they themselves knew who could no longer pass on knowledge and who should remain. At first, the Ministry came up with a brilliant idea, maybe you don't know, but now we don't have to study the history of Ukraine and Ukrainian language and literature in technical and natural universities, they think it's a European trend. Why, for example, in Kharkiv or Odessa colleges, in technical studies of our history, or in Ukrainian? And no matter what we demanded, we thought, "We strongly recommend that we include these objects, although they are not mandatory." But if they are not required, who will include them? So my requirement is not just to correct the error of the government in part of our profession, which makes Ukrainian science, but to return to a series of other systemic errors, such as the mandatory teaching of humanitarian subjects. Because today the Ukrainian world has to be strengthened. My proposal is to vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, look, there are several suggestions. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u99	Oleg Lazko. As co-author of the bill, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all who have joined the authorship of this important bill. I suggest, Vladimir Borisovich, in view of Mrs. Grinevich's amendment, that the law be put to the vote on the basis and in general. And to some of my young colleagues, who have a weak girl’s memory, I would like to remind them that when these pension laws were being reviewed on March 2, 2015, I had to leave my pension here in Parliament. And I'm surprised that in the final drafting of the law, which was signed by the President, this rule fell out as well as many other norms that were discussed in this room. It's got to be a subject for a separate investigation, by the way. The Radical Party faction believes that only the stake on science, on industrial potential, gives the country a future, not a raw material, but industry, science, and high technology is our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, let's consult. There is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis. One minute. Who has a hearing problem? I can hear everything, but listen, please. There is a proposal to vote on the basis, there is a proposal by Lilia Greenevich, who is supported by the author, to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account what was announced by Lilia Greenevich. Dear colleagues! Lilia Greenevich, if you please. Are you sure we won't have any amendments to this law? Perhaps it is better to accept it today as a basis for further work, such as Thursday and nothing to lose, for something can happen again? Please, a minute later, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! I'll explain the principle of difference. This bill, which was originally submitted with us, which we want to accept on the basis of, applies to all pensioners and those who, since 2011, after the pension reform, if they are working, receive pensions on a general basis. If we take it as a basis, this is how we are now restoring a scientific pension for those who have not received it in the last four years. Can we afford such additional expenses? Please decide, because this is where the government would have to say its word about the resources we need to pay and return all the absolutely scientific pensions. This is the amendment that restores the situation with the scientific workers and their pension benefits that were.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u102	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u103	So we're facing a choice right now, please appreciate the resources that are needed to do this and then, or we're voting on the basis and in general with the amendment, returning the status quo to the adoption of our laws. Or we go on and we take it as a basis, but then we have to calculate correctly, can we afford to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u104	Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina, for explaining. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u105	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Like all the national MPs from all the factions, I also met with educators who insist on supporting the amendment of the committee bill. And I think we're going to do the right thing now if we vote on the basis and in general, given Mrs. Greenevich's amendment. As soon as we put scientists' pensions in place before the budget is adopted, we will work with the government to improve the ability of teachers, educators as a whole. Thus, on the basis and in general, including the correction of Greenewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u106	Please give me a minute, Nestor Schufrich. And then, a minute, Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! There's a lot we're talking about with a perfectly clear question. Our faction asks for this law as a whole as a law, and to end these debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u108	Please, Victor Bondar. Then Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Our faction also supports this issue and puts it to a general vote. I think it's important for scientific pensioners. But look at our work, the organization, Volodymyr Borisovich. Today's issue is just as a result of the constant violation of the Rules, the constant shift from one topic to another, the frenzied pace, the movement and consideration of pension legislation, the issue of defence, the question of economics, something else. Let's say la. We set a day, for example, pension insurance, let the government come up with reports on what are specific pension proposals. The second day is defense issues. Day three is budget changes, budget issues and so on. The fourth day is tax reform, real change, and let the government report here every day. And then there will be no such scars, we will not look at the same question ten times. And then to make the mistakes that were made, because someone couldn't read and someone didn't think about what he wrote. And so we're going to keep going until there's a system of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u110	Victor Vasilovich, you don't hesitate, but you do your best to complete the legislative reform plan in a country that is now being created on the basis of all committees. I think by the end of May, he'll be finished by the end of April. This will give us an opportunity to systematize our work. But what I want to stress is that the agenda is shaped according to the committee's proposals. So we're going to have to synchronize this work with the committees that we're working on today with the committee heads. Dear colleagues, Ludmila Denisov, from the spot of the moment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the Committee on Social Policy and Pension Insurance has considered this issue, this bill, and I have prepared, along with the authors, an editorial that has also been read by the chairman of the committee, Lilia Greenevich. What are we doing? We're restoring the pension assigned to scientists by October 1, 2011. We're leaving the amount of pension assigned to scientists after 1 October. And we leave a temporary order for the payment of scientific pensions to the working pensioners 85 percent by 31 December 2015. The People's Front faction will support this draft of the bill. I would like everyone to vote on the basis as a whole. For this status quo, which was on March 2, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u112	Thank you, dear colleagues. Please ask all national deputies to prepare for the vote. Convinced that it is wrong to ask questions about age. I think we need to be combined and experience, and school, and youth, we have a lot of young scientists. And everything you do to make them work together, on the team. And the autonomy of the colleges that are today and that can allow you to choose the best of the best will complement this system and make it effective. Sometimes the laws that are passed are adopted, not to create our powerful science and economy, but to weaken Ukraine. But when we talk about science, I think it's totally unacceptable to do that. And our task with you is really, as colleagues of all factions have said, to make a decision. And in order for us not to lose the essence of this law between first and second reading, it's obvious that we need to put it on the ground now and in general, taking into account the proposals that Lilia Greenevich said. And so this question is going to be settled right now and signed. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues, on the basis of a total of 2528: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities (as regards the preservation of the scientific and educational potential of the country). There is a proposal to adopt this bill, draft legislation on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposal of the head of the profile committee, Lilia Greenevich. I ask you to vote on the basis and, in general, the honourable colleagues. [[11:43:20]] For 308. The constitutional majority is 308. Thank you, colleagues! I think that, I don't think I'm convinced, colleagues, that at least in this session we have with you discussed yet the question of decentralization of power by amending the Constitution of Ukraine. And I believe that more than 300 votes will be found in this room in order to eventually ensure the irreversibility of the course for strengthening local self-government and decentralization of power. And as the countries of Europe have done, they have succeeded. Next question, dear colleagues. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care (to ensure fair pay for the work of the emergency crews). This bill was drafted by Sergey Sobolev, who is not here today, he is in Paris. Who will report this law? The author? The author sent a letter saying that the bill could be considered, and he agreed, without his presence. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Health Committee. Please. Oksana Korchinska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! The Health Committee, at its meeting on 11 February 2015, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Health Care (to ensure fair pay for the work of the Emergency Medical Brigades), registered by the National MP, our colleague Sergei Soboljev. The problem raised by the author of the bill is indeed extremely relevant. The Law on Extreme Medical Care is in force, and only medical personnel in the emergency care system have the right to receive allowances and pay for basic wages, especially on special terms and conditions of work. Regrettably, other workers do not receive emergency medical care, namely, drivers, even though they work under the same difficult conditions. Noting that we are now extremely self-sustaining, we are simply fantastically good at showing our services in the Donetsk region, which is the Ukrainian subordination, Dnipropetrovska, Zaporzikka, we are very much asking the committee to support this bill in the first reading, since it is still directed at fair pay for the emergency workers. In support of the overall idea of a bill on the need to ensure fair pay for the work of the emergency care brigades, the Committee believes that the establishment of equal pay conditions for all workers in the emergency care system, without taking into account the level of responsibility and complexity, can be further developed. Such payments should be made to medical workers, as provided by law, and usually the exception cannot be to drivers of emergency medical care. Thus, when the bill is being drafted, we will have to consider the comments of all our colleagues. They also need clarification and a term.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u114	Please don't limit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u115	In addition, clarifications and deadlines are needed if the law is to be adopted, which are to be in line with the requirements of article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. To the well-known national deputies, the law will have an impact on the expenditure of the state budget, so it has not been introduced since the beginning of the budget period due on January 1, 2016. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill should send for further work. But our Committee on Health Care asks him to support it in the first reading. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee points out that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Please accept the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u116	Thank you. Please sign two for two, two against. Please. Two for, two for, please. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, our political power will support this bill because, obviously, today, doctors working in emergency medical teams are carrying out extra workload and pay for their work, it's completely inadequate to do the work they're doing. That is why we thank the drafters and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u119	Rebirth Group, distinguished national MPs. The Rebirth Group will support this bill, because it's a really fair attitude for all who work in such a very busy area as emergency medical care and health care in general. Emergency medical care is a service that helps people in any way and, in the first place, comes and fights in the first moments of life. Therefore, a just attitude toward all in this ministry will be maintained by our group. But I would like to point out to you, your Honourable Head, Vladimir Borisovich, that there are very few health - care bills in the hall at all. I'm asking you very much to look at and ask this question on the committee, please, in the hall, people are waiting for a re-imbursation system, people are waiting for the drugs to go cheap. The Rebirth Group has been making and initiating a lot of drafts, and this is a bill on medicine, on compensation for the cost of drugs. I'm asking you to put these bills into the hall. The Rebirth Group will support this bill and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u121	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that today all the positive assessments regarding the activities of emergency medical care are only because in the last chamber the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Law on Emergency Medical Care in Ukraine. Today, emergency medical care works by law, which according to World Health Organization experts is recognized as one of the best in the world. But there is a moral and legal basis on each side. As far as the moral side is concerned. I don't think there will be people in the room today who will oppose raising the social standards of all people working for emergency medical care. There's one little nuance. Today, we have mentioned emergency medical care only from the point of view of its work in the ATO area. But today, emergency medical care is working all over Ukraine. And I can tell you, unfortunately, it's only in Kharkiv and Kharkiv today that the standards laid down in the law are met. Traveling up to 10 minutes in the city and up to 20 minutes in the area independently of the road and independently of the state of the car. I'd like to remind you that in Kharkiv County, this is the only area that has today ensured the implementation of this law and that all services are synchronized there. And 112 phones have been running for over a year. So it's strange that today the initiatives of every private entity to initiate these processes in Ukraine. Go to Kharkivsk and learn the experience. I vote, I press the "against" button, why? I will vote in favour, but I object to the fact that we are witnessing the total inactivity of the Ministry of Health in implementing this law. In Ukraine, in other regions, except in part Lviv and Dnipropetrov areas, cars do not arrive at the right time. And today we're talking about the safety of activity. The Ministry of Security doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, colleagues, are willing to speak. Please, People's Deputy Ribak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Ivan Rybak, 202 constituency. The fact is that during the Dignity Revolution last year and all the rest of the last year, we see the real expertise of emergency medical workers in Ukraine. These people really deserve to have a decent salary and to be provided with what is necessary to save lives. So I'm going to vote for this bill myself and call on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Demczak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u125	This issue can be addressed by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and does not necessarily have to be regulated by law around the matter. We understand the state of medicine in Ukraine and all doctors need social protection, but only separate categories. It's not enough that setting the same conditions for the lot for all emergency health care workers without taking responsibility and considering the complexity of the work, we can't do this right now. There's mass unemployment in the country, and now we're dismembering drivers to raise their standards. We need to increase the level of health care in general and for all categories of workers. Therefore, I propose that the law be sent for further work and that it be settled by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, namely the decisions of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, please. Bilechenko? Kirichenko, please, from the Radical Party faction. And all we're going to do is go to the polls, your esteemed colleagues. We'll give the Ministry a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u127	Pavelenko Alexandre, Ministry of Health I want to go to every MP and ask them to join the vote and support the bill in the first reading. It's absolutely right that the comments were made by the profile committee, we were working with the profile committee, and the two main things that need to be corrected. It's quite a broad proposal for us to look at categories of workers who need allowances, completely lose the notion of "medical worker." And this needs to be worked out. And the next main question, because everyone else, these are little things and they can be worked out by text, is that the bill does not define the moment from which the rule will enter into force. Once again, I would like to stress that the resolution of the committee also agrees with the fact that it is necessary to mark the entry into force of the standard and determine. Because now the budget year is going on, and we need to be clear about what allocations are going to be needed and from which budgets. So please support the bill in the first reading, and that's a perfectly good idea, and that's a good idea: 20% of the allowances are offered for health workers, and yet you still have to return the category, the term "medical workers." Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u128	People's MP Kirichenko a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u129	Kirichenko Alexei, Radical faction. I am asking you to support this bill on first reading, because what they say about amendments is absolutely right. But I have personally worked in the city of Kiev, and I can certainly argue that, apart from health workers, such as paramedics, paramedics and doctors, drivers carry no less burden than they do. This is a very difficult case, and we must take care of these people, and they must be entitled to 20 per cent of the basic salary. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote. In my own experience, I would like to emphasize that it is extremely difficult to work today in emergency care, extremely for both doctors and drivers, as well as for dispatchers, all who are involved in the rapid response process, they all have extremely difficult working conditions. Including the safety issue, you imagine that the challenges come to people who do not fully understand the situation, and here the doctor has an appropriate obligation to come in on time and help save a person’s life, and so on. That's why they need an ambulance team, starting with the driver, and ending up with all the technical staff, they're entitled to an appropriate salary. It's going to be fair and it's going to be absolutely true, in these conditions all day long and winter, and anything. So what I'm proposing is that we actually accept it as a basis, this bill, we've worked out and we've done an ambulance, powerful enough, from the point of view of financial security, it's of principle. Because these few moments save lives and minimize the consequences, including serious illness, of how fast and quality quick help works. Colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Please, on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1164). Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care (to ensure fair pay for the work of the emergency crews). There is a proposal to vote on this bill as a basis. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote and vote on the basis. Please be supportive. [[11:59:11]] For 251 The decision is made as a basis. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, there is still an offer to speak to the National MP Timoshenko for a minute. Please, Yuri Timoshenko on the rostrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u131	Guys, I'm sorry about the terrible mistake. I apologized to Peter Alexiovich, and especially before his son Alexi, I did not know that he was also fighting. Sorry for the emotion, it's just that tomorrow my platoon, my brothers are going to the front, and I'm staying here, I'm feeling deserted, I'm hearing myself as a traitor. In my previous rotation, two of my brothers have already died and my heart is sore that this time someone might die again. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u132	You know, I'd like to thank National Deputy Timoshenko for the expression that was now in the rostrum when he came out and admitted his emotional voice. So I think that such things, in fact, should unite us, not separate us. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, MP. Dear colleagues! 12 hours, recess. At 12.30 Pursuant to the Rules, we continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, break time is over. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. With the vote, we will hold back until the hall is filled with Ukrainian national deputies. And so I ask the factions to call on the deputies, the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to call on the deputies, and ask everyone to come to the hall. Dear colleagues, I urge the national deputies to enter the hall. We don't have enough deputies yet for a successful and productive vote. So I call on the factions and urge the deputies to enter the hall and prepare for work. In two minutes we'll start our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Before continuing our work, I would like to invite you, 30 seconds, please, Timoshenko U.V. As far as Timoshenko is concerned, U.V.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u135	Forgot to apologize to Julia Volodymyrically, in front of her Genius. Sincerely, accept sincere apologies. Really, me. It's just emotions, I'm sorry. I love and respect you very much, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u136	Yuri Volodymyrovich, you're up today. Thank you again for your courage. Colleagues, we're working on it. We're going to go effectively enough, and I'm going to suggest that we have a number of drafts that we have on Thursday or Wednesday and we're going to be looking at by the end of the day. But now we have a bill amending Ukraine's Children's Protection Act and on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, on State support for anti-terrorists and their children for education. Prepared by national deputy Lilia Grinevich. Please begin consideration of the matter. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u137	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Today, the most important category of Ukrainian citizens is these people who are in favor of defending Ukraine's independence -- they are participants in hostilities. And we need to look at different ways of supporting them, and supporting their families, one of the most important aspects of support is education. Because the fish was to be given, and we had to give a widow to catch the fish. And in this situation of today's participants in combat, some of them have been crippled, have become disabled, some of them have lost their lives, standing on Ukraine's borders, and defending our peace and peace with you, they need to create special conditions for further or other education so that they can get a proper job. The same applies to their families. We understand the low material security of their families. That's why this bill, which I submitted in co-authorship with my colleagues: Sergey Firemark, John Kirilenko and Mikola Kadikal, is aimed at providing the participants and their families with national targeted support for professional and higher education. This support is expected to take place within the target program. What are the guarantees? First of all, it's full or partial tuition fees, free textbooks, scholarships, free housing in hostels, and so forth. A full list and conditions are proposed to determine the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Education. As part of the fighting, they carry out their civic duty by protecting Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Now it is our duty to repay them and their families. Please support this bill, number 2105: on State support for anti-terrorists and their children for education, on the basis of this. During the discussions at the Committee on Education and Science and other committees, we received suggestions on how to look at the various possibilities of this support, how to expand the list of opportunities, and how to do so. Maybe an extension of the categories that should be able to do so. So we're going to take it as a base and then we're going to work on the second reading, taking into account the proposals of committees and national MPs. If possible, consider also the possibility of a shorter procedure for preparing for second reading. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u138	Thank you, Reverend Lilia Mikhailny, for the report. Please invite the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport, John Sporish, to report. Please, Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! I think Lilia Greenevich has made such an emotional statement, so I think we should all come into the hall and support the proposal. On the committee, we discussed the issue of the status of war veterans on April 8th, guaranteeing their social protection with regard to the State support of anti-terrorists, submitted by the National Deputies: Lilia Greenevich, Bill No. 2105. The bill proposes to introduce state-level targeted support for the acquisition of vocational and higher education for military and military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, law enforcement agencies that protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and participated directly in anti-terrorist operations. It is provided in areas of antiterrorist operations, where it is located directly in the area. As well as the children of the persons mentioned. The bill, as said by Lilia Greenevich, does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, as a result of the first reading, concluded that the bill had been adopted on the basis. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine support the bill. During the discussion of the bill, our committee supported the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of which the bill extends the possibilities for education to participants in anti-terrorist operations and their children. At the same time, a number of proposals were made to improve the bill: this is an increase in the number of persons eligible for State support for higher education, an increase in the age of children eligible for responsible support up to 23 years. I think the details have support and can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee therefore decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a first reading review of the bill. So we ask you to support the decision of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, sign up for factions. Please sign up for this bill from the factions. Sign up for the factions, please, so everyone can get a chance, then from the Ministry. Please, Romanova, National Deputy, Self-Help. Hanna Romanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u141	"The Self-Help Union will undoubtedly support this important bill. We must repay those families who protect our nation. But we're very impressed with this bill that state-level support is being implemented just when it comes to higher vocational education and higher education, not during the introductory company. We believe that this concept of State aid stimulates talented children to learn and prepare well for the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u142	Thank you. People's Deputy Linko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u143	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to put off their non-term affairs, come to the hall and unanimously support this bill, because today our participants in combat actually have very little real benefits. And so this help from the state in teaching it's going to take a lot of help and for those soldiers who haven't yet received a higher education, and they're going to go to the front and they're going to have a chance to get higher education, get a normal job, and it's also going to be a stage of rehabilitation for those who have children at home, and they're on the front, they don't have the normal ability to help them get an education. And that's why it's very necessary and very good that we're doing this in front of the introductory company, so that the kids understand, the kids in the fights understood that they have a real opportunity to get higher education. And this is going to be real help for these kids. So please, all of us will unanimously support the necessary amendments to the second reading, which also need to take place a short procedure of second reading, so that this law can take effect as soon as possible. Therefore, the Radical Party unanimously supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Levus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u145	Please give it to Big Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u146	The People's Front will unanimously support this bill, because we believe that the state should care about its soldiers not only on the front but also allow them to gain quality education, because the soldiers who are now on the front line, who are defending with arms in the hands of Ukraine's independence, must have the right after the end of the war in the east to have the opportunity to serve Ukraine with their intelligence and education. That's why the People's Front votes unanimously in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u148	Please give the word to Bondar Victor Vasilevich, the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u149	Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u150	The MP's Rebirth Group, of course, supports this important bill. We all know with you how important it is to allow all children to participate in the ATO and the participants themselves in the ATO to receive higher education of appropriate quality under state support in conditions where, in fact, people give their lives for democracy, freedom and harmony in the future. And so these people need to create all the conditions for them to be able to learn their children, to provide adequate education, to provide free education at the expense of the state. And that's why we support this bill, and we will unanimously vote in favour of its adoption as a basis and as a whole by all the MPs. Thank you. We support and ask the Hall to support this extremely important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the idea of the bill is extremely important. But what I'd like to say is that we need to think about how to operate in the system of state programs in the active involvement of those people who have demonstrated courage and heroism. And today, when they return to civilian everyday life, they are largely unable to engage in normal active work in their homes. In fact, today it's about 13,000 people. Now, our experience in Afghanistan shows that if the state and local authorities don't do this category, it means that there's a variety of unsimilar stories about both life and, let's say, the use of this active contingent means, in different interests. That's why I think we need to understand today that in district and district administrations there have to be appropriate departments or units that care about employment, the problem of education if necessary, the problem of involving these people in active work at the local level. So only a clear analysis of every person who has been through war and the involvement of this person will enable them to make the most of their experience and potential in a peaceful life. Instead, what I would like to say is that today, without waiting for decisions by the government and this bill, very many VUZs are actively involved in engaging, if possible, in free form of education and at the level of vocational education, at the level of higher education institutions or children, or participants in the ATO. And in view of that, Vladimir Borisovich, a great request from me and a group of authors, who for several months, probably more than a month, convinced the session hall and voted in the first reading for another bill that removes the land tax from higher education institutions, that our tax committee does not stop and that week does not stop. Since this means that many higher education institutions today, if they start paying this land tax, no program, and especially this program that we're talking about, will be implemented. Some local authorities have proved to be adequate, some inadequate. I know VUZs that have to pay between 2 million and 6 million dollars a year. Well, my friends, it's easier this U.S. will dissolve everyone. So if there is no sense in some local councils or there is no sense in the government that introduced land tax into public education institutions, we should correct it. I would ask that on Thursday, on the day we consider the second reading, we vote in favour of this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u154	Please pass it on to Kirilenko's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u155	Please, national MPs, who have a wish, I will now allow you to sign up and speak, national deputies. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u156	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Let me remind you once again of the substance of the bill that is being considered. It is proposed to provide military personnel, law enforcement personnel, other military actors who have participated and are directly involved in the ATO, and their children with the State's targeted support for vocational and higher education, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. When I was one of the authors of this bill at the commission of our faction, we came from the fact that there is no price that we would not pay for the feat of fellow countrymen defending sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine. And the adoption of such drafts as today, it's just a little bit of so much, it's just an element of our gratitude for their war work, which is equal to a feat. Dear friends! I support those colleagues who have spoken and proposed: such laws do not need to wait for the second reading, do not need populism, must be accepted immediately both first and second reading, and generally. If there are any suggestions, let it be the norm of the next law, because such laws that protect the rights of our heroes should not be alone. I support Mikola Tomenka, we should not repeat the bitter experience of Afghan soldiers who are in militias, who come to authorities in wheelchairs to defend their interests, and in response, they hear, "And I didn't send you to Afghanistan." Save us from such bitter lessons that we repeat them. I offer as well as colleagues in the first reading, in the second and in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u157	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch! Please, National MPs, prepare for the recording, please sign the national MPs for this address, please log in. National Deputy Kodola People's Front, please. For 15 minutes, we're giving the floor to the deputies, please take the time of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u158	Alexander Kodol's People's Front. Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u159	Gennady the Clumsy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! A very important bill, today we have education and generally social classes in a rather difficult situation, and we need to support all the socially protected versions of such bills and others, to help socially protected groups. So there's a proposal taking into account the position of the committee, I want to thank the committee, Lilia Mikhailni Greenevich, and also to invite all the deputies to consider voting on the bill as a basis and as a whole. Let's think about our future, let's think about our Ukraine. It's a very nice bill. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u162	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, the right and absolutely necessary bill, and really, if we take the experience, including those developed countries, there are people who have defended their state with weapons in their hands, not just have the right to then and the benefits of education, then they become real, not only military, but also political, elite states. In fact, they have absolutely clear preferences, and it is from such people that a real national elite is to be formed. But, dear colleagues, it should also be noted that in this law it would be preferable to have a clearer and more specific regulation of all these specific benefits, and specific things that will apply to State guarantees regarding the education of war veterans and their children, so that there are no moments for speculation. Because there are certain moments that are very vaguely prescribed, it would be desirable to write them in more detail so that indeed everyone who defended Ukraine with weapons in hand would be guaranteed to receive these benefits and also to members of his family. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Zlata Ognievich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u164	Radical Party, I give the word to Lozo Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u165	Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we need to understand clearly that when it comes to children of the military, in the struggle for independence a true nation is born, in the struggle for independence we all become, we must become, humane, bolder, bolder, understanding what responsibility we all have. So our faction of the Radical Party of Lalashka asks you all to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u168	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. My colleague, Andrew Illenko, has spoken to us, we will vote in favour of the bill. The only thing we are very much asking for is specific, specific mechanisms for granting appropriate benefits and specific benefits to the persons concerned, so that the general statement that the benefits have not been so treated that no one really needs to be given anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u169	Please, National Deputy Stasuk Vitaly, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u170	Vitaly Stasuk, People's Front, Darnica, city of Kiev. I'd like to join my colleagues' speeches, and I'd like to suggest that we all vote, obviously, that this bill is supported by all the halls, that we take into account those comments that relate to the need for a clearer formulation of the benefits. And, again, I see that obviously the hall will be the only one we should definitely support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u171	Thank you. Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u172	Deputies! The People's Front faction will support this bill, and for what reasons? Because, first of all, we have to pay tribute and respect to our soldiers who are protecting our future and ours today. Secondly, we need to create conditions when this future is smart and promising. And thirdly, we're all here supporting our Cabinet of Ministers, which should ensure the quality implementation of this law. So I'm asking both the People's Front and all the other factions to unanimously support this bill and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Igor Lucenko, Fatherland, please. Fatherland, Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u174	Dear friends! Indeed, this law is extremely important and this is confirmed by a song, a prayer for Ukraine, "God's Great One." There are these words: "Give him liberty, give him fate, give him a good education." The law that is proposed, which enables our soldiers who are fighting for his will, for his destiny, to give them a good education, which is, in fact, the same order of things. This is what we need to understand that those people who display the highest moral qualities on the front line have to bring all these highest moral standards into our society. What does he miss? It's an integration mechanism that he has in order for people with high moral background to be able to participate in the governance of our society, of course, they need the highest level of education. So, as we have already said, our "Paternity" faction will vote in favour of this law and will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Olena Masorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u176	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u177	Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will clearly write out ways of supporting this state. It is very important that the law correctly lists the categories. We were trying to cover all the categories of people who are now in defense of Ukraine. Please check the categories. If the categories are all right, the very means of targeted support will be to write out the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Deputies can submit their proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers for specific measures of State support. So in this case, we can vote in favour of this bill, and on the basis of it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u179	Please, National Deputy Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Who am I talking about? This is about those patriots who have not hidden themselves, not redeemed themselves, but are now fighting in the East of Ukraine, protecting us with you, protecting those who today want to live a peaceful, normal life. And it's also about their children, the children of these patriots. And the state is obliged, it is its right, and it is our duty with you to support this bill, which is to ensure that our country continues to have the kind and skills of these people -- the Ukrainian patriots, those who are fighting, and their children, and their families. So, of course, this bill needs to be supported. Of course, the People's Front faction unanimously voted in favour of the bill. And all that matters is that this is one of the commitments we make to our boys in the ATO, to their families. We give them the right and the opportunity to get higher education. And we have a number of tasks ahead: we have to ensure proper work, we have to ensure that we have a proper legal system, we have to ensure that there is no corruption. Let's start making all these promises that we made to these guys and to the Ukrainian people. Let us now ensure the adoption of the Education Act for ATO participants and their families. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill and call on all MPs, regardless of factions, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Yuri Bublik, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u182	Yuri Bublik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 145 constituency. I share the position of freedom brothers, all of us will vote in favour of this bill. But I would like to point out to the colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies about manual regulation by the Cabinet of Ministers of excellent bills in part of financial security. Because we know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed great laws on the social protection of neighborhoods, children of war and other socially vulnerable groups. As a result, when it came into the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, they all ran out of money. So I'm afraid if this didn't happen here, it would be in the law to write this rule, where the military, with the weapons in hand, protect our territorial integrity and independence, were really secured under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u184	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. I think we've discussed the bill quite extensively. I think everyone's supporting him, there's no questions. But I'll say one thing. Which is what we did when we discussed on the committee this question, and we're still asking you to accept on the first reading. Why? Because there is something to complement. First of all, I'd like to tell you what I'd like to say to you is that some random people would like to get here. And I think that this extended list of people who have the right to state support for higher education should be honest. So I ask you very much to support us in our first reading. There's nothing to rush, I think there's time and more before entering higher institutions. And in our second reading, we're going to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u185	I think it's a good idea to propose to the head of the subcommittee so that we can make a quality bill and not make any mistakes. And what's important is that there's time for the campaign when we can do it. Well, we can, in short procedure, prepare for the second reading and accordingly. But then I ask you to take your seats, your distinguished fellow national MPs. 2105 Draft Law, 2105. People's deputies, please take your places to vote. I'm going to put the vote first on the basis of the decision of the profile committee. And then the proposal to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Registration No. 2105 of the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Protection of Childhood and on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, on State support for participants in the anti-terror operation and their children in order to obtain education. Please vote for base, registration number 2105, as a basis. [[13:10:32]] For 248 A proposal is made after a reduced procedure, and a second reading. Please follow the reduced procedure and the second reading. This will be much better prepared. Everyone will be able to put it right. Please, colleagues, there is a proposal to prepare this bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. Please be supportive. [[13:11:00]] For 234 Yes, the decision is made. Please work to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of the Law, registration number 1639: draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (for the test of admission to work). Please report to National Deputy Shinkovic, "Peter Prashenko's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, in labour law, the issue of introducing a test at work is regulated by articles 26 to 28 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. In modern times, the issue of testing, its methods, and its contents have taken on new meaning. This is due to some factors, such as the introduction of new science and technology, manufacturing technologies, the transition to a computer manufacturing system, the emergence of new jobs, specialties, jobs, jobs. In accordance with article 26 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Testing, only an agreement between the parties to a contract of employment may be made. By Law 1639, we propose that additional social protection be provided for the realization of the constitutional right to work, especially for those who have been interned in primary employment, pregnant women, employees with family responsibilities who have children under the age of 3. The current legislation does not directly refer to dismissal for unsatisfactory test results either to the general grounds for termination of the employment contract or to the grounds for termination of the employer’s contract of employment. The project proposes that the dismissal of an employee in connection with the unsatisfying result of the test be attributed to the grounds for the termination of the employer’s employment contract, since the employer appreciates the worker’s work. What does this give a person who has not passed the test term? This allows this person to go to the stock market, to get other social guarantees that, unfortunately, he doesn't have in today's conditions. And it's not at the expense of the employer, it's at the expense of the social protection that the state gives to the person. Thus, honourable colleagues, the adoption of the bill is an improvement in labour legislation to ensure the implementation of a category of citizens of the constitutional right to work and to prevent abuse by the employer while setting a probationary term for employment. Thank you and I'd like to support you as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, Alexander Drozdik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u188	Thank you. At its meeting on 18 March 2015, the Committee of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed the draft Law amending the Code of Laws on Employment Testing (Registration No. 1639) submitted by the national deputies of Barvinenko and others. The project proposes to amend the Labour Code, including by expanding the list of persons for whom there is no test at the time of admission to work, it is proposed not to impose tests on those selected to serve, the winners of competitive selection, the persons who have been interned at the time of admission to work with separation from basic work, and so on. It is also suggested that the day’s trial be included when the employee was not actually working independently of the reasons. The project also refers to the reasons for the employer’s initiative to release a worker in connection with the unsatisfying result of the test. In the Committee’s view, the authors’ proposal to set aside the grounds for the dismissal of an employee in connection with the unsatisfying result of the test of the termination of the employer’s employment contract is positive. In addition, the committee supports the employer’s commitment in writing in three days to warn the employee that the employment agreement with him will be terminated due to his failure to pass the test. At the same time, it should be noted that there are separate observations before the bill, particularly by the Ministry of Justice, concerning certain disagreements with the State Service Act. The committee therefore believes that these differences can be further worked out by the committee in preparing the bill for second reading. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Supreme Council Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption notes that the draft act does not reveal corruptive factors and meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine did not comment on the project. In addition, the joint representative body of representative U.S. trade unions at national level supports the bill. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Please sign up from factions and groups, respected colleagues. From factions and groups, please write it down. And then from everyone, from the deputies. Then I'll take 15 minutes from the deputies under the Rules. Article 33, part two. We read, article 33, part two. Read, read, quote. Cite the classics, the Rules. Please, Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u190	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "They don't let slaves into paradise," said Taras' father. Unfortunately, it hurts to talk about it, but it's only fair. We have hundreds of thousands of people in this country, if not millions, working as slaves without any rights. And certainly, the state must protect the employer. The state should make it possible for employers to create as many jobs as possible. Because one of our biggest national tragedies is total unemployment. People, especially in small towns, villages, can't find a job, they don't know how to survive. At the same time, we, as the Supreme Council as the legislative body and executive, should always put the interests of a person’s work ahead of the employer’s interests so that people can work as humans, not as slaves. And that's why our faction of the Radical Party of Lalashka is asking you to protect the people of work, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u192	Arthur Gerasimov's Block of Petra Dustenka. The Peter Prashenko faction supports this bill as a basis. And I would like to draw your attention to a rather serious point in this bill, which helps to accelerate the appointment of people in state-owned enterprises, so that if we make a competitive selection, we will be able to assign these people to positions without a trial term. But I would only call for a vote on the basis, because a lot of things, I think personally, have been agreed with professional associations so that we don't get a bill that will hit private businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Romanova Anna, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u194	There are many inaccuracies in this bill for the self-help union. And in particular, we're violating the market relationship system itself. So today we are not ready to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u195	Thank you. Please sign up for 15 minutes from the National MPs. Please sign up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u196	Please turn on the microphone, Evakhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u197	Anatoly Evlakhov, Block of Petra Prashenka, strike group. Yes, laws are meant to protect the interests of workers, but this law does not solve this issue; this law interferes with the market relationship between the employer and the hired worker. So I think that this law can't be passed in this way and our faction, I think it will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u198	Thank you! Please, spores Ivan Dmitrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u199	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. I think it's honorable that we would not agree there, but we should still accept it as a basis, accept it as a basis, and we'll have time to work on it. And today I think even Self-Help said that we're not ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's what we're going to do: we're going to take this as a basis, we're going to have time to work out, we're going to work on this bill. Because there's a lot going on today in both the private business and the state business that people have to work, and they have a lot of people in line with some kind of law. If we don't have this law and we reject it now, I think we shouldn't do it, but we should take it as a basis, then we should work out the bill and we should take it really, because it's positive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u200	Suprunenko Alexander Ivanovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u201	Please give the floor to Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! I think that the bill should be explicitly accepted as a basis, because this way we will protect the rights of the people who, in our difficult time, will thus be able to be protected in accordance with current legislation. We're modeling the situation: a person comes to work and his firm isn't ready to take a job, but he lets him work for two months on a probationary term, then continues this probationary term for another two months and then for another two months, and then he lets him go free, he goes with nothing, and he's not completely protected from the legislation and the Labour Code. There are usually nuances, and the drafter and I talked about how people can use this standard, let's say, with low moral qualities. We model the situation, the person comes to work and says to the employer, take me to work, I work for two months, then you fire me, but I'm going to work on the job market. Thus, the employer loses nothing, and all negatives are borne by the state. This is what we need to settle when we prepare for the vote as a whole. But in this situation, I think it's definitely a positive bill that will protect many of the socio-invulnerable types of populations that today, due to the disadvantages of the Yatsenuk government, suffer many problems, including at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u203	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u204	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u205	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, this bill, which we are considering, of course, is very important and labour relations must be regulated precisely to protect a person's work, to protect a hired worker, first of all, to protect the most vulnerable citizens of society. But I would like to say that here, too today, one item in order of the day is planned, which is going to help Ukrainians lose their jobs, and promote the interests of the oligarchs. This is Bill 1567 government, which foresees the actual possibility of privatizing about a thousand state-owned enterprises under incomprehensible absolutely rules during war, at no cost, including strategic enterprises, and that is absolutely unacceptable. We, the Freemasons, have already opposed this bill here in Parliament, and it has been removed from consideration. And today we're going to urge MPs not to vote in favour of this bill. Because of the promise made at Maidan, the fight against the oligarchy and, in particular, the return of the oligarchus to the property of the Ukrainians. Here we see the opposite: an attempt at war, a priceless sale to the oligarchs of the remaining acquisitions of state property. Yes, if there's any other non-profit, non-profitable thing, obviously you can sell it, but you can't sell profit businesses, you can't sell strategic businesses. Moreover, today we see what social justice is not in the country, to whom will they fall? The same oligarchic clans, no foreign investors will come to Ukraine today. We see that, in fact, the mistakes of the 1990s are repeated, total acceptance, after which this oligarchy system was formed in Ukraine, after which there is today a prank of private monopolies, after which today in Ukraine the lowest wage in Europe is paid and totally unfair social system. And instead of correcting this situation, instead of getting out of this situation, it only gets worse -- it's absolutely wrong politics. Today, on the contrary, if we are told about Europe, there is a strong state sector in Europe long ago, there are different forms of ownership in Europe, and there is no oligarchy in Europe. And what's happening right now is a completely wrong, ultra-liberal and completely criminal policy. Therefore, we urge not to vote in favour of Law 1567, but for this law that is currently under consideration, we must vote in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u206	Please, Julius Mamchure, Peter Dusty's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u207	Peter Dustenka's Block, Mamchure Julius. I support Bill (1639) because it is necessary to regulate the relationship between the employer and the worker. Many abuses on this ground are taking place, so I urge the National Deputies to support in the first reading, the second reading to work on quality so that our employers and employees have a good European relationship. Thank you for your attention. I won't be using all three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u209	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. The bill really regulates the relationship between the employer and the employee. Just as there are so many today there are abuses in the use of such standards as acceptance to work with a previous probationary term. Indeed, it is the moral attitude of young people, especially young workers, who want to find their first job. Instead, they are used as free labor, as slaves in businesses, institutions, and organizations for two months, and then thrown into the streets for a while. The bill will provide an opportunity to be confident of young people who will gain experience even on probationary terms and then go to the labor market and find a decent job. I call on everyone to vote in the first reading, and to prepare this bill qualitatively for the second reading of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Humil, People's Front. People's deputies have been written down, we can stop the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u211	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. I would like to call for this bill to be voted on only in the first reading. Because there are inaccuracies in it, and we need to work on it, but what areas does it touch? It's just a matter of probation and internship when you take young professionals to work. Yes, there are individual abuses by the dishonest employers who, on account of those young people who come to work for two or three months virtually freeing them, taking their place as new young people on probation, in this way form their permanent roster. I want to draw attention to another point that Ukraine is now living under the Labour Code, and we are now introducing only two articles, which were adopted in 1971. It has not been 24 years old, nor has the USSR or the USSR, but the Labour Code is still old and we use it. I would also like to pay attention to the Ministry of Social Policy and Work, as well as to the relevant committee of profile, in order to unite efforts and propose a new code of labour laws, to bring it into the session room and to adopt it for implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u212	Colleagues — Does Everyone Continue? I see that there is a proposal to vote. Please, Matvienkov. Then there's Yuri Lewchenko. In a minute, please. The minute is Matthew, and the minute is Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u213	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the subject is indeed very exciting and exciting. Will the bill solve the problem of unemployment? I think everyone understands that they don't. We've only had 300,000 unemployed in recent months. Millions of people are looking for work. Does the Employment Centre, as it exists today, solve the problem of unemployment? Of course not. Does it coordinate the work system? Nope. Today, any employer can hire a person by passing employment centres. This is once, one moment. Second moment. The money, the budget money for assistance, we distribute through employment centres. Thus, the question arises: Until we establish focal points for employment through employment centres and the allocation of budget for loss of work assistance, we will not be able to find the root of the problem. Therefore, it is necessary to address the issue in a comprehensive manner, not in a moment, that the bill will not resolve, let us say, in a large way, these problems. That's why I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u214	Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u215	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I'm very glad that for the first time in the history of the new convening of the Supreme Council, we are looking at laws in full scope, not in the short term. This enables them to be properly worked out. And we're making some adjustments. But, in fact, I would like to emphasize: Why did this happen today? And that seems to be happening today, because there's no vote in the voting room for the criminal project on "acquisition" of state property -- what's left of the state. And now Mr. Ivanchuk is running around the hall trying to gather these voices. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished journalists, who are scheduled for the second hour in cabinet number four at Gruszewski, the 5th meeting of the Economic Policy Committee, where this bill will be reviewed. Why are you doing this again? And because the results of the first vote were falsified. Where did Mr. Ivanchuk draw that the committee seemed to support this bill, and in fact there were 7 pros and 7 against. And now the falsified results are posted on the Supreme Council website. So I invite the journalists to take a look at this action. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u216	Oleg Lazko, please. Let's finish. Please invite members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! The issue of unemployment is a key problem in today’s country at a price level, with tariffs, and so forth. Now I returned to the Supreme Council Hall from the third miners ’ retreat. For the past 20 years, miners have failed to assemble. For the past 11 years, Ukrainian miners have not been able to buy. Today, the Ministry of Energy policy has led them to lose their jobs without the means to exist! They have nothing to feed their families and support their children! Because the Ukrainian authorities are buying coal in Russia, buying energy in Russia, somewhere else abroad, taking away jobs, earning their own Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the meeting of miners to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council for the release of the Minister of Energy of Demchikin from office for destroying his own coal industry and energy! For taking people's jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. We have before the end of the morning session to consider draft Law 1165. So please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, your esteemed colleagues, for the vote. Obviously, this bill can be adopted, considered as a basis for accepting it. As the committee concluded, different opinions were made by national deputies. So, please, for your consideration, registration number 1639 is for voting as a basis. Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (for the Testing of Admission to Work). Please vote on the basis. Based on the base. [[13:36:04]] For 234 The decision is made as a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft law: draft Law registration number 1165. The reporter is Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 1165. Andrew Kozemyakin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! Your point is to consider a draft of the Ukraine Act (No. 1165) to amend some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption crimes, which has been prepared and represented by deputies from all factions. The main author of this bill is a group of experts who are directly involved in the fight against corruption. And this bill has long been waiting for its turn. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences of Ukraine, which introduces a new institution of criminal criminal law in Ukraine, a criminal offence in the form of public accusation. The Institute of Public Prosecutions is characterized by the involvement of a special subject who initiates its beginning, a public prosecutor as a single participant and a party to criminal conduct. The other one. A special order of initiation and termination of criminal conduct. Third. A special way of proving the circumstances that indicate signs of criminal offences against which criminal charges are permitted is by public accusation. Four. The openness of criminal conduct and the public disclosure of circumstances and evidence that have given rise to criminal conduct and social interest. And the fifth. Speciality of compensation to the public prosecutor is the harm done to the person for whom he or she has initiated the initiation of criminal conduct. A public prosecutor, a public prosecutor may be any natural person or a legal person who is directly a victim of a criminal offence, or who has become aware of the commission of other persons of a criminal offence provided for in article 368, this acceptance of an offer, a promise or an improper benefit by a service person. The 370 is a provocation of the bribery of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and has filed a complaint with the investigating prosecutor, a report of the commission of the relevant criminal offence and an application for criminal conduct in the form of a public indictment, part one of article 59-1 of the draft law. The establishment of such an institution will enable directly and, very importantly, your colleagues, to engage the public in, in the end, to fight corruption in the higher echelons of power. Never does the patient diagnose himself; you have to involve a third party that can express an independent opinion. That's why all international instruments require the involvement of public society as a consumer of services that is being evaluated, because the State does provide services and the public does. And the consumer himself has to appreciate, that is, every citizen of Ukraine, how well these services are provided by the state. The public’s participation in coping with corruption is clearly defined in article 13 of the UN Convention against Corruption. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that without public participation, public control over the activities of the authorities and, above all, the law enforcement agencies in our country, corruption cannot be overcome. The reason for this is that it's been corrupt for years in terms of "solidarity" of employees of different branches of government. Unfortunately, first of all, these are the courts, these are prosecutors, these are internal affairs agencies and the Security Service. So the policy of the State should be aimed at removing the premeditations of such unwanted solidarity, or at minimizing its impact on anticorruption initiatives. The project is also proposed to decriminalize. And this is very important, my fellow Members, and I would like to draw attention to such activities as smuggling of special technical means of non-voting information, amending article 201 of the Criminal Code and illegal acquisition, sale or use of special technical means of receiving information. So we're proposing to exclude Article 359 of the Criminal Code. And delete article 195-5 of the Criminal Code on Administrative Offences. What administrative responsibility for the illegal storage of special technical means of receiving information is now envisaged. Criminal law has repeatedly expressed the view that establishing criminal responsibility for the illegal treatment of special technical means of receiving information less favours the protection of social relations from criminal offenses. And most of them contribute to the security of corrupters and to curb the technological development of the state. The social danger of the illegal use of special technical means of receiving information is not primarily a violation of their use but rather a violation of the rights, freedoms and interests of individuals and legal persons, as well as the interests of the State. In Ukraine, such rights and freedoms and interests are the subject of criminal law protection, which is provided by other articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. These are Articles 111, 114, 163 and others. From this point of view, it is not necessary to regulate criminal responsibility for the illegal use of special technical means of receiving information in public. For a valid criminal responsibility, please pay attention to your esteemed colleagues. Criminal responsibility for illegal circulation and the production, acquisition, sale, and other technical means of obtaining information is provided for only, attention, in the criminal codes of some SND countries. The Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Tajikistan In all other countries, there is no criminal responsibility for the illegal circulation of special technical means of receiving information. So, dear colleagues, today's your attention. I repeat, in the end, because for a very long time this Bill 1165, which is in place today, I would like to say this is a reformist and revolutionary proposal to involve the public in the fight against corruption, and at the end of the day it's in the room and you have the opportunity to support it in the first reading on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the committee, we heard information from the author. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up, let's take 20 minutes to discuss, from factions and MPs, yes, immediately. Both the factions and the MPs, please write down who has the wish. 20 minutes of discussion, 15 minutes of discussion, and we'll make a decision. Please, 15 minutes. Please come out of the room. Please, Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u221	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "Ceterum censeo Cartaginem delendam esse" – Carthage must be destroyed. Corruption in our country is Carthage, with which we have all those who can fight with all our might, and there is no explanation. And in fact, this law, this change in the Criminal Procedure Code is our chance to substantially change the system, this is our chance to involve the public in reforming the real situation in the state. When I was on the Maidan stage about a year and a half ago, and I said that they're judging us now by public activists by selling regional courts, one day we're going to judge all these bastards by the People's Tribunal. And in fact, in this law, the introduction of a new subject of public prosecution is the first step towards the People's Tribunal, the real justice and the destruction of total corruption, total political motivation in law enforcement, the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. Therefore, dear fellows, we must understand that each one of you who does not vote in favour of this law does not want to change his own country, does not want to protect people from the aggression of the villains in pursuits, the villains in the judicial manteries. Each one of you who does not vote in favor of this law deprives his people of the right to justice. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u222	Thank you! Eutushka National Deputy Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u223	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Volodymyr Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u224	Glory to Ukraine! I want to say that a large number of national MPs always talk about Maidan and justice. Laws like this, 1165 is a revolutionary law that will help Ukrainian citizens to protect themselves from corruption. They will be able to resist this exercise of authority that is now in the country. We must not be afraid to give instruments of influence to those who choose us. I'm asking everyone to support this bill, because it's very important, it's going to take the first step in the real fight against corruption. Under this law, there have been a lot of people's deputies, and I very much ask you all to go back to the hall and vote on it as a basis, and we'll make all the amendments to the second reading, all the wishes. But let's look at our citizens right, let's give them the opportunity to have an influence on power so they can control it so they can influence all the processes that are in the country. You see how many journalists are investigating in Ukraine right now, where journalists are detecting crimes where they expose corruption and they can't reach the truth. I very much ask you all if we are talking about Maidan, if we speak the vowel slogans, "Glory to Ukraine!"let's not just sit here and do, as you all say, populism, but do real things in the fight against corruption. I am convinced that this law will help us to overcome the evil that the Ukrainian people have brought to our knees. I thank you all very much, all the authors who were not afraid to take responsibility and write it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u225	Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u226	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Duralex, sed lex, the law is strict, but it's the law. Unfortunately, this traditional Roman norm does it work today in Ukraine as it should be. I have, as a majority deputy, a dozen citizens every month who claim that police officials, prosecutors' offices, BSS authorities are inactive. Moreover, these citizens provide a comprehensive list of evidence bases, which I believe is sufficient for a criminal case to be discovered and investigated. That's why, realizing that our country is at a transitional stage from the manual, run, totalitarian state of Yanukovic to the standards of democracy. We're giving the community, the public activists, the indifferent citizens and the people of our country the opportunity to join in the process of clearing our state from corrupters and criminals. By placing the evidence in court, citizens have the right directly, direct attention to the court to the fact that a crime has been committed, and that a police officer or prosecutor’s office commits criminal activity. That is why I think the bill today is extremely relevant and important to our state, because the process of purification is impossible without the status of self-cleaning. We see it in the courts, we see it in the prosecutor's office, and we understand that such a powerful lever that the community will give in the fight against corruption, it is one of the active mechanisms that the Ukrainian state needs today. Therefore, Bill 1165: The involvement of civil society representatives in the fight against corruption, or the establishment of a public prosecutor's institution, is extremely important today for the Ukrainian State. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u227	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u228	Please give the floor to my colleague, Yatzenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u229	Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u230	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, this law is duplicating the law, in the last Supreme Council, the last summons did not go through the hall once eight times. Why didn't he go through? Because this law, you have to think about it, you have to think about it, any responsibility for illegal wiretapping, for trespassing, for any human being, or even for the commercial structure of industrial, so-called espionage, I'm sure that the good intentions are paved, as they say, the way to hell. In principle, I do not deny that a person can defend himself against bribery. But these norms, which completely remove the responsibility of listening to illegal listening, will allow, first, to listen to both opposition and any national MP, a political actor, because there is no sanction for this and even administrative sanctions are removed. Second, you remember that there were a lot of criminal cases recently when the Security Service removed an unsanctioned device that listened to everyone. And people get criminal punishment, and that's the right thing to do, because who benefits from it? According to former defense attorneys who went to work in private commercial structures, the security guards are called. And that's why I think this law needs to be re-readed or rejected. Because it, apart from the standards that apply to corruption, contains standards that have been trying for many years to go through the Supreme Council and have not been able to provide any different criminal groups that will then be able to sell this technology, and even hire and provide their services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u231	I don't know what this is about. But the Constitution of Ukraine prohibits such interference as you said. So if I didn't have that in mind. This law cannot violate the Constitution. Please, Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u232	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! Obviously any legislative innovation that makes fighting corruption more effective is vital. And accordingly, involving the public, including in trials and gathering evidence against corrupters, is a clear and huge plus. Because frankly, if it wasn't for the public if it wasn't for the public's investigation of the public and journalists, we wouldn't know if we had any anti-corruption issues in Ukraine. Because those bodies that are legally required to fight corruption usually do not do so, more than that, themselves are essentially the personification of this corruption. So it's absolutely right. But we also have the same honesty to admit to ourselves that not a mirrored, totally corrupt judicial system can destroy any, even completely correct and healthy anti-corruption initiatives. If they continue to sit in these positions unexplained judges and if the judges do not choose directly the citizens - what we propose - we will accordingly have a collapse of the fight against corruption again. At the level of the courts, it's all going to be explained, and it's not going to have any effect. So in fact, if we're talking about the same corruption, we have to be honest that in the European countries that we're taking the example and we want to join, there, if the government official or any other official is accused of being involved in plagiarism in scientific work, or if he's taken credit for a suspiciously low percentage of the bank, he's resigning immediately and he's starting an investigation against it. And we, in Ukraine, have a corruption charge of billions of dollars, hundreds of millions, and absolutely no response, absolutely no real attempt to figure this out. And that's very bad, because it's from this very, absolutely intolerant of all forms of corruption that a real fight against it begins. We have to admit that today, in the government, today in the big oligarchic business, corruption is not an anomaly, unfortunately, it's a norm. And in fact, from the beginning of the absolute non-acceptance of any corruption, we can talk about the fight against corruption. If the official cannot explain the property he has, then he must immediately be called to account. He cannot explain how his standard of living and lifestyle are related to his real salary, which he declares, so he must be called to account immediately. And in this respect, journalistic investigations, the work of the public -- it's actually the best anti-corruption activity there is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. I suggest we stop this discussion now. And there's three minutes left before the morning meeting. Oleg Beresuk. Then there's Alexander Kugel. Colleagues, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u234	Short. Continued tradition, in Latin, today's vitae is the way of life. We have to go through this road. And this law begins a new way. The course of responsibility of both officials and ordinary people who will have a right that they never had. And that is, we need to learn this right. There'll be a lot of abuse, there'll be a lot of mistrust. But this road has to start, to go through it. Once again, the proverb is Chinese: A thousand - mile [1,000 km] journey begins with the first step. The law is new, the law needs to be studied. But today we're starting this road together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m0.u235	Thank you. I think it would probably be appropriate for us to vote on it as a basis, this bill. I'm asking all national deputies to take their seats. Colleagues, I think I'm going to put it to a vote. Signal. Let's make a signal and immediately vote, language is based, colleagues. 1165 based. Please take your seats. Signal voting on the ground. Signal, please, on the ground. Based on the base. Signal on the base. [[13:59:40]] For 176 We didn't make it, colleagues. We didn't make it. Friends, once again, please concentrate, national MPs. This is the last bill in the morning session. Please take your seats. I'm asking you to support my colleague. I'm asking you to support my colleague. Please, this is the last warning. If we don't, in the second session we're going to adopt, we're going to consider this law on adoption. Is it accepted? Please alert 1165. Let's support the base and then work it out. There have been many fitting suggestions that can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. But I've been inviting them for 10 minutes. Please, on the ground. Signal. 281 cards. On the basis of that, please let's support it. Based on the base. [[14:00:40]] For-188. Okay, colleagues, then we'll be looking at this bill in the afternoon. Dear colleagues, draft law. More precisely, the agenda for the morning session is exhausted. I declare the morning session closed. Let's continue our work at 4:00. Thank you all for your work.
