ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Thank you for unlocking the rostrum, the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to begin work. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, invite the national deputies to the session hall. Heads of factions, invite deputies to work. In a few minutes, we'll start our work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. We're starting our work. Please prepare for registration and start registration, please. [[10:07:28]] We have 245 national deputies in the room. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before that, on your behalf and personally, I would like to welcome our fellow national deputies with their birthday, namely, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko. Let's welcome Irina to her birthday and wish her the very best. [[Applause]] And our colleague, Andrija Anatoliovich Teteruk. Congratulations, my dear fellow. Success and well - being. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and let's say hello to Dnipro with yesterday's winner, a lot of cowards. Bravo! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today we have an hour of questions to the government. I would like to inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers are present in the cabinet of the government, and the Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk is present in our work. Let's welcome Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues, May 15, 1990, 25 years ago, began the work of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic of the 12th Assembly, which was later renamed the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The First Council of Ukraine became the foundation of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and carried out a great history, a historic mission, and started the process of approving the independent state of Ukraine. On July 16, 1990, the Supreme Council approved the Declaration on Ukraine’s Sovereignty. On August 24, 1991, the Supreme Council of the First Council proclaimed the Ukrainian Act of Independence. Now we have participants in these remarkable events, our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Igor Alexiyovich Green, Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski, Julius Yakovitch Ioffe, Sergey Volodymyrovich Kunicin, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matvienko, Viktor Mihajlovich Pinzenik and Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. I would like to invite you, on behalf of our colleagues who are in the midst of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, Igor Alexiyovich Greeniv. Please, Igor Alexiyovich. Let's say hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Today is really a holiday, because as Ukrainian poet Alexander Oleses said, "What beauty is the rebirth of the country." Today is the birthday and the birthday of all of us, all of us parliamentarians, because on this day, 25 years ago, the Ukrainian Parliament was born. The first free elections took place and created the first representative body, the Supreme Council, the first democratic call, on that day its first meeting took place. It was the Parliament that changed the fate of Ukraine. From it began the historical process of national self - determination. Despite the fact that the Republic continued to remain part of the Soviet Union, despite attempts to prolong the empire through the signing of the so-called New Alliance Treaty, Ukraine, an independent country, set out its historic course 25 years ago when the first parliamentary session was opened in this room. Then the Declaration of State Sovereignty was signed, then the blue and yellow flag was raised, the act of independence was proclaimed, and the institutions of the sovereign state were built. But today's date is not just a reason for nostalgic memories of the late dawn of independence -- it's a good opportunity to sum up the first sums, a quarter-century experience of government creation. These conclusions are particularly important today when Ukraine is fighting for its independence, overcoming external aggression, economic crisis, and political turbulence. Today, we are experiencing a moment of truth -- this is a moment of tension by all the forces of the nation and at the same time a moment of patriotic exaltation, of European expectations and of the renewal of the very principles of the interaction of power and of the people. So a few conclusions from the path. The first conclusion is that Ukrainian independence has become a perfect fact. Someone likes it or doesn't like it. He no longer raises doubts about the discussions. The Ukrainian state took place as an independent state, held as a constituency, and took place as a democratic state. Last year’s events showed that our independence can protect itself. She learned to distinguish truth from lies, friends from enemies. The Ukrainians have shown that dignity and freedom are values that unite us and make the Ukrainian nation consummate. The empires have always longed for a rematch, but Ukraine has not been able to do so. And this is despite the fact that we have already established the puppet regime of Yanukovic, and in order to return Ukraine to the new Soviet Union, powerful economic, military and political, ideological and propaganda values were involved. Moreover, Ukraine’s stability, its choice in favour of European values, may be a decisive obstacle to Russian rematch and save the vast region of Eurasia from new conflicts and destabilisation. The second conclusion is the damage to multi-sector maniacs and honesty in front of them. Operation Russian Spring opened its eyes to anyone who had doubts about our true allies and opponents in today's world. All that Ukrainian patriots said about the threats from Ukraine was well confirmed by the leadership of the Russian Federation. For the Ukrainians and the entire civilized world, we have nothing more to add to these characteristics. But the way to realizing reality was very long and difficult. Many of them were lost and mistaken. We came to the crisis in 2014 with Ukraine's ruined defence, a balanced national security system, a distorted system of patriotic education, ideological advances in people's heads and official state documents. The absence of its own long - term strategy stopped the country. But now everything needs to be fixed and perhaps corrected. We can compare the results of the political, economic transformations that have taken place in Central Europe with our current state. Countries that have immediately embarked on European development and European integration have been given a clear perspective and security assurances. And we've had today's crisis as a result of beating on the spot and endless compromises with the past. So that's the third conclusion. The need for a clear plan for reform. It must be clear to everyone that if we do not break the corrupt oligarchic system today, it will break us. But this is not the only condition for our national success. We need to understand that the Ukrainian State cannot be built according to the recipes and canons of the Hmělničina and Heidamachina Age. The 19th - century ideological designs and the 20th - century development model do not work. We must build our common Ukrainian home in the realities of the 21st century. Ukraine needs to develop on modern values, become a country of constant development, and the Ukrainian nation is a modern world nation. And the most important lesson from the 25-year experience is that changes in Ukraine are not made by politicians, they are not the result of national decisions or individual will. The change in Ukraine is made by the people themselves, it forces politicians, officials, and even oligarchs to work for independence, to declare independence, to overthrow dictators, and to resist the enemy. That's why we're going to have to live a new life, because it's not up to you. Changes in Ukraine will take place under the pressure of citizens who have already made decisions about which country they need. These changes can happen because of us, or they can happen in spite of us and without us. And this is a choice for the Ukrainian Parliament of the Eighth Congress, for the government and for the President. Thank you. I welcome everyone back to the feast. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u4	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Alexiyovich. Welcome! Dear fellow national MPs! On May 14, 2015, the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian national deputies elected for the election of Ukraine's national deputies on October 26th, 14th, namely: Chubarova Refat Abdurahmanović, who was included in the election list of the party "Peter Prashenko" and Nemirov's Andrija Valentinović, who was included in the election list of the political party "The Self-Help Union". In this connection, according to article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chubarov, Rephat Abdurahmanović, is invited. Please, I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u5	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u6	Congratulations, dear fellow, welcome, Rephat Abdurahmanovich! Please, one minute, please. National deputy of Ukraine, Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u7	Dear Head, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. I have often had to speak out of this rostrum, but even in a terrible dream I could not imagine taking an oath of allegiance to Ukraine at a time when Crimea was occupied and war against Ukraine was waged by Russia. Hundreds, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens living in Crimea today have not had to declare the oath of allegiance to Ukraine, but they remain faithful to Ukraine. The state couldn't, the state couldn't protect them. I couldn't because in our most difficult time, the enemy attacked our nation. But we must conclude that all these Ukrainian citizens are awaiting deliverance. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you for the decisions taken as steps towards the liberation of the Crimea, for yesterday's decision. But at the same time, I want to urge all of us to work to improve our work, which will lead to the liberation of the Crimea. I just want to say that our basic principles should be: the war against Ukraine began with the occupation of Crimea, the war must end with the liberation of the Crimea. The second slogan, which should be the principle of our work -- let's stand back for Ukraine -- let's return Crimea. Dear others, we have a lot to change. There can be no such thing as that the occupying power would daily increase repression against the Crimean Tatars, against people of other nationalities, and at the same time the relationship between the mainland Ukraine and the occupied Crimea would continue as they are today. I'm sure we'll get our relationship in order. And all our ties to the occupied part will serve the same purpose — the protection of human rights, the citizens of Ukraine in the occupied territory. I want to finish my speech by making such a statement. [[Crimean Tatar Words]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Please invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nemirowski Andriy Valentinovich, to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u9	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u10	Welcome, my dear fellow! We wish for success. Dear colleagues, a few announcements and we're moving on to "the hour of questions to the government." According to the application. Announcement. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Balický Evgen Vitaliyovich and Shenchev Dmitry Alexiyyovich, into the opposition bloc. I'm reporting on the creation of the 8th Interfractional Deputy Union for the Development of Local Self-Government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ivan Ivanovich, a national deputy of the Ukraine, was elected head of the Interfractional Association for the Development of Local Self-Government. Congratulations, Ivan Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day leading up to the tragic date of May 18, when 71 years ago, the Crimean Tatar people were deported from Crimea, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to commemorate the memory of the victims of this genocide, an exhibition of photo reproduction of paintings by Crimean artist Rustam Iminov from the series Deportation. I invite you to this exhibition on the third floor of Parliament. I am confident that the impression of the work displayed will help you to grasp the depth of this national tragedy of the Crimean Tatars. Dear colleagues, we move on to other matters of the order of the day, according to written questions. For information, please welcome Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vitaly Volodymyrovich Muschinin. Then he's head of state. He's the deputy minister of social policy. And then he's head of the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation of Ukraine, Sergey Saucuk. Please, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. 15 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u11	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In response to the questions that came about in terms of the "hours of questions to the government" there are questions related to the program, the new housing grant program, the ability of the program today to expand in the scope and direction as we planned. So with your permission, I'd like to briefly briefly report on what's being done today and what we're planning to do in this direction. So today we have one of the most important and relevant activities of our ministry and our entire system of social protection, this is the introduction of a housing grant program. We have made a commitment today to compensate families for the cost of housing services in excess of the amount required. Since May 1, the mandatory share of housing and utility payments has been determined for all categories of households by a single formula and depends solely on the income of the family. That is, the more income, the more it is necessary to pay for utilities. From 4 percent to 25 percent, such compulsory fees may even come. The main innovation of our simplified programme today is the introduction of a grant mechanism based on information on citizens’ incomes. So when we make decisions about grant allocations, we put in place a principle of confidence in the data that citizens provide. In addition, we have introduced such tools for a simplified mechanism. This is a grant assignment based on only two documents -- statements and declarations. Grants for 12 months, not 6 months, as before. Implementation of the automatic principle of granting grants for a new period of time. The simplified forms of statements and declarations that are now contained on one sheet instead of the 5-6 sheets that they were before. Eliminating all restrictions on the property status of persons. And in addition, we've been able to form a grant today for people who aren't registered in the living room but who are renting housing. So what I'm saying is that today we have almost 1.3 million citizens who receive housing subsidies. They do not need to seek housing subsidies again, and housing subsidies will be granted automatically without further requests and additional documents. In particular, I would like to point out that the government's decisions explicitly prohibit citizens from requiring additional help or data that may affect the process of granting housing subsidies. So these changes took effect from May 1st of this year, and according to our calculations, the number of housing subsidies recipients is expected to be from 3.5 million to 4 million families. So this is almost 25 percent of the families in Ukraine who have to join the housing grant program. It's a very significant percentage of population coverage by social programs. At the same time, I want to say that by the beginning of 2000, about 3 million people, families, were already in the housing grant program. So we have confidence that social protection agencies will deal with the challenge. In order to ensure that citizens are informed of the Housing Grants Program of the Cabinet of Ministers in the Decree, paragraph 3, by a new Order 106, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Energy and the Minifrastructural Ministry commissioned each consumer to produce and deliver simplified forms of application and declaration. According to the information we have today, the work is completed in time and in full. So almost each of the 16.2 million households received their address to the application form and declarations for a grant, together with the identification of the body to which they are to be addressed in writing. In doing so, citizens may not come to the offices to receive subsidies, but they may go to the offices via mail. We realized that given the unprecedented magnitude of the work done, there might also be some misunderstandings. Someone could've gotten two packets of documents, someone could've never gotten one. Therefore, in order to resolve the issue, the World Bank and the World Bank were able to produce more than two million copies of applications and declarations transmitted to the Social Protection Authority in advance. This will allow us to take advantage of the possibility of obtaining appropriate forms for citizens who are willing to come to social protection management on their own and to form subsidies directly on the spot with the help of experts who are currently working on grants. So with a view to implementing a simplified housing grant arrangement for the time being, Minnesota has been developed and sent to the region on April 21st. There is a subsidy calculator on the website, which allows you to navigate about the size of housing subsidies on the condition that you apply for them. In addition, appropriate work has been done with the State Fiscal Service and the Pension Fund to organise the exchange of information on the income of the grant recipient, with those bodies with which we will exchange information on the verification of the reliability of information. We have approved a joint order with the Ministry of Finance, approved by the Ministry of Justice, which now approves protocols for the exchange of relevant information. So all the technical measures needed to make the program work are already in place. In addition, once again, with the support of the World Bank, with the funding of the World Bank for one month, our ministry organized training seminars for specialists from all social protection agencies and executive authorities on the provision of simplified housing subsidies. Every district and every city is covered. With the aim of informing the population about the simplified order of housing subsidies by the Ministry and the local welfare authorities, information and clarification work is being carried out constantly. At present, organizational issues are very important that we follow up on the local authorities. It's about ensuring the continuity of social protection agencies, and there's a combination of the work of administrations, our administrations and other bodies, businesses, organizations for information on the stock of registered housing and housing services. I also want to say that we keep doing this. We continue to update our data daily and continue to increase our information campaign on the clarification of housing subsidies. So since May 1, I can tell you that our order has been working. So far we can't give operational data, we've got weekly monitoring, but the first data will only start coming today. At the same time, local authorities, social services, and service providers have already been contacted by citizens. I want to say that every reference to this question is dealt with and dealt with quickly. We realize that without it, such a large program could not work, but we have the resources to correct the situation. We also have weekly answers to the more typical questions that today come from the subject of subsidies. I would also like to thank the people’s deputies, who, because of their requests, inform us about the problem of granting subsidies for the results of their work with the electorate. I would like to express my thanks to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions for the April 27th comments and proposals on the order in which housing subsidies are allocated. Most of the issues raised are legally settled, the rest of the issues need detailed study and analysis, and will be settled as soon as possible on the basis of the first results of the work of the new order of housing subsidies. I want to point out the following in this respect. The increase in tariffs took place in April of this year at the same time as the heating season ended. Appropriately, payments for utility services that come to citizens in May no longer include the cost of heating services, which consists of more than half of the total payment. In view of this, the main burden on the management of the social worker on the allocation of subsidies is expected at the beginning of the heating period, that is, in October 2015. In view of what we have noted, we have foreseen a renewed campaign to inform the population about the current housing subsidies programmes, as well as the re-deployment of simplified applications and declarations to households before the start of the heating period. By this time, we will be taking into account all the issues that will necessarily be revealed when we introduce the May 1 operational order, as well as those that we now see need to be settled. In summary, I want to say that the new subsidy system works. There are no doubt problems with its implementation, but these are not the problems that today can be said to block work. They can be decided and decided by organizational arrangements. Much more is involved in conducting an explanatory company, in raising awareness of the housing subsidy mechanism, but these questions only make us keep our attention to the problem. And one more question I'd like to ask. Today, there is much talk about the fact that the assignment of housing subsidies can carry on in some cases alienation of property, or the confiscation of housing for debts, or other matters. I mean, that's not a housing program. On the contrary, today citizens who are in debt for housing services have the right to apply for housing subsidies. And housing subsidies in this regard do not take into account this debt, i.e. housing subsidies. However, the only condition for ending housing subsidies is that citizens do not pay their mandatory share. In this case, the housing subsidy will be suspended. But if citizens don't pay their dues due to the fact that there is a mortgage on residential services, in this case we don't take into account this norm, and housing subsidies continue to be paid, and citizens or families have to pay the municipal part after receiving the corresponding debt of salaries and social benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Please take your place. Please, Saucuk Sergey Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished national deputies! On behalf of the Prime Minister, with your permission, I will tell you about the government's actions that are being implemented today to reduce the financial burden on households in order to make their payments for housing and utilities much smaller. We remember last year. Next slide, please. We remember the following year when, starting in the middle of last year, the price of gas was no longer as high as the question of gas availability. And so a number of administrative and incentive measures were introduced by the government to reduce the consumption of imported Russian gas and replace it with any other kind of fuel. In particular, we were sent state subsidies for the modernization of weeds last year. We also reduced the social standards for the use of gas in heat and in comfort. In addition, the administrative route was reduced by 30 percent of the limit on gas consumption. We've introduced a so-called "pollution tariff." Please turn the slide back. We've introduced the so-called "pollution tariff," which is today. a duty rate for the introduction in heat-generating plants, which will be used by other than gas, of a type of fuel. And a number of other measures. We've given the population the opportunity to get loans to install non-gas boilers where the government takes on part of the financial burden of 20 percent of the compensation. And what do we have today? During the heating season of 2014-2015, we managed to reduce gas consumption by 20 percent by three important categories of gas consumers, such as budget organizations, heat-generating enterprises, the population. It's almost 5 billion cubic meters of gas. And I'm pretty sure that's a shortcut that we've been able to do on account of the government's actions that I just mentioned. Next slide, please. More specifically, I want to stop at a population support mechanism in order to allow them to reduce their costs of housing services. For the first time, the government has offered a program that is of a leading European character. We started lending 20 percent of the body credit for savings loans. And please note that this program has gone very well with us. Literally in the first. The first two weeks of this program have been issued with loans of 2 million 250,000. Then 12 million, 28 million. Today, people have taken credit for 50 million dollars for gas boilers. At the same time, the State invests only 20 percent on its part — one to five of them. In addition, the results of this program gave us reason to introduce a new compensation mechanism for the population. So today, we've already decided (in April) to extend the warming compensation mechanism to the population, where for individual households, the government will allocate 30 percent of compensation for materials and heating equipment and up to 40 percent of housing cooperatives to OSBB. Next slide, please. I would like to point out separately that the Supreme Council has adopted a very important bill of 1313 and 1409 for the conclusion of energy service contracts and some thanks for this to the honourable people's deputies, the speaker and the President for signing it. These important bills allow private investors to be employed in the budget area to warm up and reduce energy consumption. The return on investment will not be made at the expense of the State budget but rather at the expense of the difference resulting from the reduction in energy consumption by the budgetary institutions. This part of the economy will remain for the budget. This mechanism makes it possible to create a new market for energy service contracts, up to 200 billion dollars. This is the potential of the economy in the budget area up to 1 billion cubic meters. It also increases comfort in social institutions — schools, kindergartens, hospitals. And this is also an extension of the economic life of these buildings – not less than 15 to 25 years. And so today, the government is working on developing an example energy service contract, and then these energy service contracts will be put in place. Next slide, please. Also, a draft decision No. 1565 on the features of the exercise of property in a multi - apartment building was adopted literally yesterday by the Supreme Council. The proposed bill, as you know, will allow you to promote the creation of OSBB, namely to compensate for the warming of OSBB, those programs that have been adopted by the government so far. And this is also a very important step, for which I thank both the speaker and the distinguished national MPs. And at the same time, I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, to support Government Bill No. 1581 on Housing and Utilities, which is already on the committee today, which includes the introduction of mandatory commercial water and heat accounting, which is a fundamental prerequisite for the implementation of energy-efficient measures. Next slide, please. We know that there are huge commitments in Ukraine to the Energy Community, to the European Commission and to the European Union for the implementation of their energy conservation standards. And we have a number of directives that were still adopted in 2006, in 2010, other directives that were adopted in those years, which were to be implemented by Ukraine and previous governments. Unfortunately, thanks to the inactivity of previous governments, we have failed to implement these directives. And that's why this year, last year, we had to start all this work from scratch in order to catch up with the pace that energy co-operation has set before us, the European Commission. And the results are already there. In particular, according to the 32 EU directives on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, two bills I mentioned have already been passed on energy service contracts. The government has also developed a draft Regulation approving the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan by 2020. Today, this decree is already in agreement with the MINREGION and is being worked out in the central organs. And according to the same directive, we are working today to create a state institution -- the Energy Efficiency Fund. I'll stop in more detail. In addition, we are working today with energy co-operation and with the UniDO project on the Energy Use of Fuel-Energy Resources Act. In accordance with Directive 31, we have also developed a draft Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings. Today, we have sent him to Minnesota. A rather important bill, which we hope will be passed in the near future. And by the way, we worked out this bill with representatives of the MPs. In addition, in accordance with EU directives, we are already developing a number of technical regulations to be applied in Ukraine as well with regard to energy consumption. Next slide, please. In particular, I would like to focus on an important document, the draft National Energy Efficiency Action Plan by 2020, within the framework of the 32 EU Directive since 2006. Please note that the main load on reducing energy resources will take place in this plan, primarily at the expense of the household sector, is a 50 percent reduction, and these are our households. So today we have already approved it in the Ministry of Regional Policy and have received support from the Secretariat of Energy Cooperation. Next slide, please. In addition, when we talk about energy conservation, energy efficiency is always around the development of renewable energy sources. And within the framework of the EU Directive, a new government has already taken a decision on the adoption of the National Renewable Energy Action Plan by 2020. By implementing this plan with the participation of foreign institutional investors, as well as our Ukrainian investors, we will be able to increase the use by 2020, the end-use of renewable energy sources in total to 11 percent. On the one hand, this is a very ambitious goal, because it requires investment up to 16 billion euros. On the other hand, all EU countries today already have higher indicators. Next slide, please. We're talking about the government making partial compensation for the warming households, but this market, it's very large. When it comes to the Ukrainian housing fund, 85 percent of it needs thermomodernization. In terms of the budget area, it's another 200 billion dollars. The potential of this market alone is 40 billion euros, these are our calculations with the Academy of Sciences. And these funds, of course, have to be involved in a market way that all of our foreign partners have gone. And today we are talking, again, about the implementation of the European directive on the creation of the Energy Efficiency Investment Fund. We suggest that this fund will work closely with the donor support fund. And this fund of donor support, which will be filled by international financial institutions, is being worked out by us today. Moreover, we are conducting close negotiations with the European Development Bank's management of this fund. What is the main purpose of this fund? Its essence is that investments that will go into energy efficiency will lead to a reduction in energy consumption. As a result of the reduction in energy consumption, the size of housing and utility bills will be reduced. Of course, this will result in a reduction in payments to the population. And this is our proposal on the sources of the filling of the Ukrainian Energy Efficiency Fund. So the reduction in subsidies is going to be in some proportion to the filling of the energy efficiency fund, and the difference is going to go to the state budget. And it's not our know-how, it's, again, the practice of Europe. And what's more, these are their directives. Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you, again, with thanks for your support in the hall for those key bills that have been adopted so far in terms of energy efficiency, energy conservation. On behalf of the government, I commit myself to continue to work on all legal instruments, both governmental and legislative, which we will soon bring to the Supreme Council and ask for their support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u14	Thank you, Sergey Dmitrovich. Please take your place. We have 30 minutes to ask the government. Please, please. Please, colleagues, sign up, prepare first. Stop the recording, stop it. Because, please, if everyone can participate in the recording, we need to be warned. Please, colleagues, concentrate. Now there's going to be an enrollment of questions to the government. Please sign in. First question, Lyushko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I know that it is difficult to negotiate with external creditors to write off debts through the structure of the transfer of payments. I want you to know this figure, I want to tell the citizens of Ukraine, in this year's budget almost 100 billion dollars for interest payments, and if you take the sum of Ukraine's expenditure this year, 344 billion dollars for service and payment of external debt. I'm asking you, how does the Prime Minister, what does the government do to restructure these debts, to write off some of these debts, or do you work convincingly with foreign partners, so that, by example, Poland will cancel our debts and so that we can channel these funds towards restoring the national economy? And the second. What the government is doing to break the 2009 gas contract, which today is a heavy burden on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u16	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u17	Which is a heavy burden on the Ukrainian economy, housing and utilities, services, etc. Break the gas contract with Russia immediately! Immediately write off external debts, savings on the economy, on the jobs, on the GDP, on the army!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u18	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u19	First of all, I would like to welcome the people's deputies of Ukraine and point out that the Ukrainian government always comes with great pleasure for an hour of questions to the government in order to provide comprehensive answers to all of them, not political but purely professional questions asked by the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Coalition. The extremely professional two questions from the distinguished Oleg Valeriovich Ljaska, who demonstrates a very stately position in relation to Ukraine's future not only in his questions but also in the activities of the Radical Party. The first question involved debts and their cancellation. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, this is now the main subject of discussion both by the international press and by the Ministry of Finance and Government as a whole. I'd like to give you an overview of what's been going on with the country's external government debt over the last 20 years. As Victor Janukovic became president of the country, the country’s external debt amounted to $31 billion. When Janukovic fled the country, Ukraine’s external debt amounted to $72 billion. In three years, Janukovic's regime and those that represent Yanukovic today at the Opposition Block, the former head of President Yanukovic's administration, who is here in this room, has received $40 billion in loans from his former textbooks. I have to be honest with you that we can't pay these loans to collect social benefits, pensions, wages, nothing to take anymore. That's why in the restructuring programme, in our International Monetary Fund work programme, we got $9 billion last year, that's total loans from the International Monetary Fund, from the Great Seven countries, from all our external partners. We got nine, and we only gave out 14 to external creditors, that kind of business. The only thing we've been able to do in the last year is reduce the country's external debt from $71 billion to 68. So no amount that we took as loans last year was spent on anything other than paying off external debts that we didn't take. Now, we signed a new program with the International Monetary Fund. Let me remind you of the terms of this program. It's a three-year program. The total amount of funding is $25 billion, of which $17.5 billion is IMF, $7.5 billion is Americans, the European Union and other contributors. At the same time, the International Monetary Fund made it clear that the total amount needed by Ukraine was not 25 billion, but at least 40 billion for three years. And it is these 15 billion dollars, which are missing as direct investment in the Ukrainian economy, that we are obliged to restructure. So from this high rostrum, I refer to our creditors. Dear creditors, the government is very firm in its position on the need to conclude negotiations on restructuring Ukraine's external debt. The country is in a state of war, we've lost 20 percent of the economy. We have asked our creditors with a clear proposal for order and terms of restructuring. And we ask, and we ask, and we insist that external creditors understand the current situation and accept the offer of Ukraine, which is the right and which is the step of creditors with the help of Ukraine, the time has come to help Ukraine and the creditors. As for your second question, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriyovich. Just now, the head of the State Energy Efficiency Agency has shown a complex program that's not just on paper, it's a complex program that's being implemented on energy efficiency issues. I know very well that there is now a political and false discussion about the size of tariffs. In order to remove this debate, and immediately prejudiced by the questions of our political friends from the coalition, because the opposition doesn't have to do anything right now, they're out on the palm tree waiting for the corpse of a democratic coalition to flow. And the authors of this wonderful story sitting in this room, they did it, and in 2004 and 2005, it was all in Ukrainian history. Only this time it won't work. And I'm sure that every responsible coalition member is aware that the scenario that they've been working on in Moscow, and they're implementing individual political forces in Kiev, about the parliamentary elections for the term, about the collapse of the parliamentary coalition and the destruction of both the Western government and the Western coalition, will fail and will never be realized because of our unity. We took a very hard position on the gas last year. And I'm going to be honest with you, and I even had a phone conversation in June with a very highly respected European leader who suggested signing a new deal with Gazprom, which I said, you know, we've already signed a deal with them once, that's enough. We went to the Stockholm Arbitral Court, we filed several lawsuits against Russia, and we're demanding in Russia's Gazprom compensation for the benefit of Ukraine $16 billion. Similarly, we require the Russian Gazprom to review a transit gas contract that is harmful to Ukraine. And this is part of our trial with Gazprom. We were able to sign a tripartite agreement with the European Commission last year. As part of this tripartite agreement, we were able to survive the winter without paying $500, as stipulated by the gas contract, to the Russians. And then we pay, and they buy tanks, missiles, planes, and they fight Ukraine for our money. We also diversified sources of natural gas last year. And here, in particular, I want to celebrate, first of all, the role of Slovakia and the role of our partners: the United States of America and the European Union. In spite of the pressure that our European partners experienced, if we had previously taken 95 percent of the gas in the Russian Federation, last year we ended up with 70 percent of the gas coming from the European Union and only 30 percent of the gas coming from Russia. And finally. Now we've actually managed to achieve that the price of Russian gas is already below 250 dollars for Ukraine. It's not the 500 that were a few years ago. I understand that Russia wants us to lay down "traps" so that we can give up the European gas, which can sometimes be a few percent higher at price, so that we can move exclusively to the Russian resource, and then at the most difficult moment for Ukraine to say, buy 100 percent of the gas at the price that we're going to dictate to you. We're not going to repeat a mistake that was made a few years ago. That's why the government made the following decision: the minimum gas balance is 50 by 50, the minimum we're going to buy in the European Union is 50 percent gas. After the last battles in France, I can't divulge the details of these negotiations, we're now buying gas from five European companies: this is Gaz de Franz, this is AON, this is RWE, this is Royal Dutch Shell, and this is Statoil. We hope that the volume of gas and the price of European gas will be even more competitive than it is today. And this year we're going to be holding some investment forums. What does it matter to us? It is important for us to have European investors in the Ukrainian gas transport system. The law that was passed in Parliament provided that only European and American companies could share with Ukraine, which should own 51 percent of the company, the state-owned gas transport company, could be co-investors. And I'm going to turn to you from this rostrum: Dear European friends, we're not asking you for money, we're telling you, come on in here, invest in the Ukrainian gas transport system, let's do a profitable Ukrainian-European business together. And this will be the best response to Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Paul Rizanenko, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u21	Please give the Jurinac the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u22	Mr. Secretary, as there are no two ministers here -- the economy and the minister of finance -- I would like to ask you these questions. Committee hearings on strengthening the role of the euro in cross - border cooperation took place on Wednesday. Unfortunately, these two ministries have ignored such important meetings because they are attended by almost all regions of Ukraine. That is, when the heads of the district councils find time, and representatives of the ministries don't find time for that. So what I want to say is that the programme, for example, in 2014-2020, is the cross-border cooperation of the neighbourhood's European policy and today, in international meetings, the representatives of this ministry are unfortunately ignoring it. So I'd like you to take control of this. And as a convinced Eurooptimist, I'd like to ask you about the management of Scrooge. When will all these changes take place? And about organization, planning, control, regulation, because that's really important -- change of management in this particular company. And in the framework of the Association of Ukraine today in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. First. By the Euroregions. This is a very important programme of cross-border cooperation between Ukrainian regions and European regions. And this program is on special government control. If any of the officials did not come, he was either on a mission or. You're like members of the coalition. I can remind you how we formed a government. We have from the People's Front, which I represent, of the 20 ministers only four ministers, all the other ministers, dear friends, this is our joint decision with you. These are ministers from Peter Prashenko's Block, and they're ministers from Fatherland, from Self-Help, and this is Vice Prime Minister from Oleg Lachka. Absolutely correct, if there is a question to any minister from the Peter Dusty Block to the Prime Minister, including the Prime Minister, ask or come to the government meeting, we will always be happy to see you. And you will help discipline including the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is a coalition and is responsible for all five parliamentary factions. It's about Skroenft. I wanted to answer myself, but I know you're very fond of asking the Energy Minister, Mr. Demchikin. He'll give it to you as a professional, and I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u24	Arsenius Petrovich, thank you so much for this passport. Indeed, it was in line with the law that was adopted two months ago, beginning on April 26. On May 26th of this year, Naftogazu, together with the Ministry, appears the possibility of a legal, to a full extent, in accordance with the current legislation to hold supervisory council meetings, and then we can hold general shareholders' meetings. These congregations are planned according to this 26-27 number schedule, and in these congregations we can and are planning to change the masters of the Crocnafts accordingly. As the management changes, operating decisions can be made both with regard to the management of this company and the payment of dividends and any other issues related to the operation of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u25	In addition, I'll just say, Your Honor, a national MP. So the law is passed. I want to remind you that this law, thank you for your support, is the government's return of control over the company Ukranafta. Thank you very much. The other one. Shareholders’ congregations are being convened. Third. We have a shareholder there, where the state is 51 percent, and another shareholder owns 49 percent. And because this shareholder should respect the state, the state should respect this shareholder, but we have a control pack. This means that the management of the company will be changed, and that means a new stock deal will be signed. And that means that the budget should receive 1 billion 780 million dollars to the state budget as dividends from the company Ukrnafta.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u26	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Gus, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u27	Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u28	Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u29	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I am a member of the Working Group to Investigate the allegations of corruption by former Chief of Financial Inspector Gordienko. At the meetings of the working group, we learned of the many facts of corruption that had taken place during the Government of Azarov. Some concerned the work of public enterprises in the first half of 2014. Please indicate your attitude towards the need to extend the work of the working group. And what have you done to punish those directors of state enterprises who have proven to be ineffective in managing these enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u30	Thank you very much for that too. And I would like to comment on both the legal and the political parts. I'd like to start with the legal part of the matter. So the former head of the Derjfininspection, after being removed from the Cabinet of Ministers for official investigation, came up with political accusations of a kind of break-up in the government of 7 and a half billion. I was the first one to be interested in the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office violating criminal conduct from this fact, in order to understand whether it was true or not. Similarly, you are now asking whether it is necessary for Parliament to continue the working group on this investigation. And my answer is, go on, more than that, you have questions for me, I'm ready to come and talk publicly. And now the political part of this story. The political part was as follows. Clearly, he would never have come out with empty accusations if he had not received a guarantee of his immunity. You've dealt with every so-called accusation in the task force. All of these charges apply, not to the government, not to the prime minister, but to the activities of state - owned enterprises during the time of the work of Mikola Azarov. And even some refer to the previous government, before Mikola Azarov, since 2006. None of the facts that this person has said have been confirmed. And that completely led me to think about it: that's the way it used to be. Remember, when the former, heavenly kingdom, the head of the President’s Administration, accused President Dustenk of corruption in 2005, there was no evidence of that, there was no truth to it. But then came political conflict and political scandal, which led to the collapse of the coalition and the early elections. It was also part of the plan. Could not and could not. I'm willing to testify as Prime Minister on any fact, on any charge, and on any case that concerns me personally or the government. And I'm going to fight against the political provokers who are charging the country with facts of corruption that have not been reported on Russian television alone all these statements by the so-called remote and now liberated head of the State Financial Inspectorate. And I also appeal to the prosecutor's office to investigate all of the allegations of abuse by the head of the State Financial Inspectorate, which were set out in this brief act of official investigation, to determine who the corrupter is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u32	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, on the anniversary of the tragedy of the Chernobyl disaster, another extraordinary event and situation burned the forest, as you know, you yourself were there when this fire was put out. Why did this happen? The question is, it's double enough. To this day, Mr. Kushchenenko, the head of Azarov's apparatus, is running the Blackbill Special Unit. Can you influence it, because I have already personally raised this question from this rostrum during parliamentary hearings about the relevance of a person's being in this position far away from this fire, and is it precisely the kind of people who are contributing to this, the non-expert people who have already shown their work in this office, who have shown the results of this work, and we have what we have. And the second question. The State Budget for 2015 has set up the cost of repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u33	Finish up, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u34	To repair roads in Western Ukraine, especially in the Chernivecki region, Ivano-Frankivsky region, Kosivsky, Snitinski region, Visniecki district. Please don't lose these roads. People are blocking the roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u36	Yesterday, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appointed a new Head of the State Service in emergency situations. And so yesterday, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appointed the head of the alienation zone. You've just raised a question that I don't know about a person who runs a state enterprise. There is a minister of ecology and natural resources. Is it, Minister? Yes. I'd like the minister to give us some information on this. And if you have an appropriate proposal, I am convinced that the minister will be pleased to meet you and, accordingly, in accordance with the Ukrainian law, will decide on the issue of personnel change and reinforcement. I'll be honest with you. This is objectively the result of various types of assignment. And I'm going to thank you for your publicity and for your public support in personnel change and reinforcements, both for the government and for the heads of state enterprises. Minister, how do you comment on this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u37	I would like to thank the Cabinet of Ministers for actually appointing a new head of the State Agency for the Aliens Zone yesterday. I very much hope that he will quickly take up his responsibilities and solve this human resources problem. Human resources problems are both there and in other central executive bodies. So please come to me after the end of the "government hour," and we'll deal with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u38	Now your second question is very important on the road. I would then ask that the Minister of Infrastructure, the distinguished Andrew Pivovarsky, briefly comment. We met several times with fellow Ukrainian national deputies to build the road. And I am very grateful that you and I have come to a common understanding of which road to build and not to allow, and both the divisiveness of the budget and the shearing of these budget funds to build, a thousand pits, and as a result, no real road. So in the budget, we've budgeted 700 million dollars with you to build roads in the Western region. The decision is to build one normal human road from Lviv to Frankivsk via Bibirka. It was a joint decision. Now. There's a mass there for that. Well, experts say they need 700 million, but knowing how we have roads in Ukraine, I think they'll have 550. We want to save the cost of building this road and the minister will tell you how we're going to do it because we're already hiring servers, that is, foreign inspectors, who are able to verify the quality of jobs, the number of jobs and the cost of jobs, because we usually have all become millionaires on the roads, if not billionaires. Next. About 200 million dollars we're going to send to repair roads in other parts of Western Ukraine as we made deals with distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies. I'm telling you straight away, we can't solve all the questions right now. Part of the cost, there's about 60 million euros left of the European Development Bank loan and reconstruction as an economy due to the exchange rate difference. The EBRD and I will negotiate and the minister will negotiate these negotiations to send these funds to build the road, as we spoke to you, to Rakhov. I mean, in principle, there's a complex plan and I would like the Minister of Infrastructure to say very briefly that we're doing the first with the Krauttodor because we went after the reform of the Krauttodor. And two, very quickly. How are we doing with the road repairs now? Because we've already spent 1 billion dollars repairing roads all over the country. And when do we finish repairing roads in Western Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u39	Arsenius Petrovich, thank you so much for the word. With regard to the reform of the Kravutodore. About a month ago, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to start the reform of "The Stork." What does that mean? That means decentralization of Autodora. This means that raiders and villains move to places with government authorities. This means that not only did the government issue money for fiscal decentralization in places, but it does provide opportunities for the operation of roads to local authorities, but it also hopes that you, honourable deputies, will support in the second reading a bill on the decentralization of the road economy in Ukraine alone. And we're going to put a lot of cars on the ground. So the government has transferred money to the places, the government is transferring the decentralization and reform of the U.S. U.S.U. operation, and the government, along with us, will transfer the roads of local importance to the places. And in the process of reforming "Kravtododu" also, what's left of "Kravtodor" is a reformed organization that will be significantly reduced in number. The reformed Autodora will be solely responsible for the roads of state importance, and will be solely the customer of services. Stealthodore won't be a performer, he won't be an exploiter, he won't be a road designer, he'll be a private company. So this is going to be the object of competition. Also, quality technologies are used to ensure that every bracelet that is removed from a budget that does not have thefts is being used. The government invites foreign servers, foreign experts, to monitor the work and use of money. Such negotiations are under way. By now, about a quarter of all the pitwork that had been planned, even a little more than 30 percent of the work had already been done. Today used for the beginning, approximately Arsenius Petrovich, 720 million dollars, was used on May 1, 2015. At present, the rhythm of the treasury payments is not bad. And most regions say that this rhythm was not historical. And for today, with the Kravutodora, with the district highways, with the governors, with the senior MPs, we're working to make sure that the money that goes into the pits is also controlled and used effectively. Thank you very much to all the major MPs, and to the governors for their help in this kind of control, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I, like all Self-Help, am very concerned that you will not remain forever promising and implement all your brilliant ideas in practice. We suggest that you think about transferring customs into the administration of an international normal company to make the customs office a public authority and not a corrupt component of our lives, but a real approach to the budget. To the representative of the Ministry of Defense, the question of the completion of the fortifications. And the personnel issues, and the position on Sasha Borovic, the appointment of the nephew of Chobotar, please comment. Do we have such, more specifically, a strong human potential that we can freely disperse with such frames? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u42	I also sincerely wish the Self-Help faction success, prospects and your leader, the honorary mayor, Andrey Sadov. And the government is always at your service to help make your perspective as factions come true. In the State Fiscal Service. A new management of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service has been appointed. The state’s fiscal service has been given three months to regulate the tax system. First. It's to close the tax pits. The other one. Order the customs office. By the way, there's a man on duty with an international diploma and a very good record. And the third. This is to solve the problem of the tax police. Let me remind you that the past government and this government, we offered to eliminate the tax police and transfer the tax police to a civilian crime investigation body. I therefore insist once again that this reform should be carried out. As to the role and location of the State Fiscal Service. This is the role and place of our tax reform program as a whole. I believe that the State Fiscal Service should become part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. We are currently working on the final version of the reform, and we are discussing this with international creditors. It's about your staff assignment. Mr. MP, you asked. Don’t be nervous, I beg you, for the nerves eat up health and the years of life. We are very actively working on the staffing reserve and the staffing complement. You mentioned your last name, you asked a question by name, and I saw it on the Internet yesterday. Objectively, of course, the Prime Minister is to blame. The minister argued with his counselor, the counselor argued with the secretary. Okay, I'm ready to take responsibility for everything. It's only the minister's jurisdiction. And the minister made that decision, and I respect the Minister's decision. But I'm talking to anyone, including this person. If you want to work for Ukraine, our doors are open, even though you have some kind of misunderstanding with the minister. I've got a lot of other work to do. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u43	Thank you. One last question. Please, Gregory Squirrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I want to ask you a very tolerant question that, believe me, cannot give us the opportunity to spend our days in the regions. It's a question of order. What every connection to the power lines is paid by the army for 2,000 kilowatts. If there's no gas perspective there, it's even 10 kilowatts or 15 that burns the house, 30,000 bucks. They don't go to the budget, they go to the clouds, people go to them. But that's how many people there are. Well, they can't stand it. I'm just asking you very much to give me an order to get a government bill to settle this issue. And one more, please. 3.5 thousand households have no heat counters. Today, these houses, farms, and people pay 30 percent more for tariffs that are unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u45	Please finish, Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u46	We ask you very much for these households, where there are no counters, to be commissioned to set up. Heat suppliers in the house. In houses with heat control. It's very important to people today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Baggins, yes, first you had a question about the connection. Let me be very honest and honest with you, I'm being hit by the "paths" from the fact that I've been giving a mandate for six months, unfortunately, to an organ that I'm not subject to. Because the body that sets up the connecting mechanism, the authority that sets the tariffs and the body that defines the rules of energy work, it's not the Cabinet of Ministers. It's an independent body called the National Energy and Utilities Commission, and they're often, I'm just a little thick on "dules to spin." I'm giving you six months, and that's not done. It's not done, and it's carrying a few things behind it. First of all, people just pay stupid money, including private money for wiretaps. Secondly, we're one of the worst in the world with standards of connectivity, and it just kills our business rating. I was promised exactly last week by NCRE, and I asked the minister to get together and finally give birth to new rules. These rules have only one goal: a monopoly on the market of archergics, this monopoly is pushing money out of business and out of people, and this monopoly is destroying Ukrainian perspectives. So I will ask you very much: Help me. And from the parliamentary rostrum it is very helpful. If you step out of the Parliamentary Chamber and hit the table with your fist like that and say, "How long is this going to take?" So, now the Doing Business is going to be doing an evaluation of Ukrainian business, in May-month, and we haven't done that again, which is to make it easier to connect to the network. Now the counters and the tariffs. To end this false tariff hysteria, when graphs show that they don't match reality, two plus two is four, not three or five. Two plus two is always four. I had a meeting with the NCREKP yesterday (this is the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation), Naftogaz, Crushing. By the way, the self-help faction initiative. And we have the next offer. All tariffs set by an independent body (i underline that this is not a government, but an independent body) should be audited by the largest four international companies in the world. And then we'll close this political bench about who's fighting for the fate of the Ukrainians. It was five years ago when the price of gas was signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] About the counters. According to the counters, this is a direct commitment of every energy company. Direct Commitment! Set the counters at the expense of the appropriate energy company. And I'm asking you, as members of Parliament next week, to adopt the National Energy and Utilities Commission Act. Create, honourable deputies, independent of politicians, independent of the government, from presidents and from parliament, a body that will be transparent, honest, professional and effective in setting tariffs and taking responsibility for their establishment. Vote for this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, there is another important question about health. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Oksan Korchinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u49	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished Cabinet of Ministers, colleagues! The information I'm about to give you, I hope, will shock you. Two months ago, our faction of the Radical Party of Ukraine and our Parliament made additional progress in the 152 million-dollar Cabinet of Ministers to fund the treatment of severely ill children and ATO participants. I inform you as the first deputy to the High Council Committee on Health that in two months no child has been able to deliver a serious illness, no terminally injured ATO abroad, because the Ministry of Health is deliberately sabotaging. Yegor, now we're talking about the death of our boys! Sobolev, I am addressing the Prime Minister! There are boys in our hospital who cannot be rescued in Ukraine. From your decision to remove the Ministry of Health from your office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u50	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u51	Now the lives of our terminally ill children and our deadly wounded boys depend on them. For two months, no Ukrainian citizen went abroad for treatment. The process is being sabotaged, the commission is not meeting. Mrs. Pavlenko promises me a personal solution every day. Yesterday the families of our ATO fighters, who in fact had no hope of living in hospitals, went to file documents for medical treatment abroad. MOH does not even sell the document delivery mechanism by accepting documents from ATO participants. For two months, this money, such as the Ministry of Finance, will be confirmed by Mr. What does our work of national deputies do? Why the Ministry of Health is involved in crime rather than in crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, colleagues. The answer. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u53	I'd like to ask the Minister of Health first to answer that question, and then I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u54	Please, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u55	Thank you. At this point, I can answer that 40 Ukrainian citizens with ATO are now being treated abroad. We have a commission that receives documents and immediately sends them to clinics abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u57	You can come to me and talk to me in a human way. I'm telling you, every time a request comes to us, we send everyone. Do you think I'm sabotaging the treatment of the people who fought for this country? Is that what you're telling me? And the kids. You don't have the right information, you can't do that. Nobody's sabotaging anything. 40 ATO fighters are already being treated. They'll go there even more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u58	All right, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u59	I thank the Radical Party faction for asking. What I can tell you exactly is that low-level officials' callousness and irresponsibility does not just exist, but thrives. They don't care, most of them. And here I am asking for your support. We've made some money. All the money that had to be allocated was spent by all the government. Now what needs to be done. Before we make any personnel decisions, I invite you to a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, where we will invite all those wonderful and irresponsible people who are unable to implement the medical aid program. And you and I will make organizational and personnel decisions. Thank you for asking. And I thank the Parliamentary Coalition and Parliament for the opportunity to speak. And thank you personally to Speaker Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman for the invitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u60	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we've completed "the hour of questions to the government." Thank you to the government. Thank you, Prime Minister. Good luck with your job. Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, we have three questions that need to be voted on, and after that. Attention, attention! I ask all national deputies to return to their seats. Colleagues, we'll continue to go to the report of the task force on the audit, the publication of the Sustainable Financial Inspectorate on financial irregularities. So, please, three questions, Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we have many Fridays in a row that we cannot vote for requests to the President of Ukraine. I am very much asking for the vote of all the people's deputies to come into the room so that we can vote effectively. There are three questions from Kishkar, from Sukhevich, from Tetjana Czaroval. I very much ask the National Deputies to return to work months so that we can pass the voting procedure for these requests. Please, factions heads, honourable colleagues, take up jobs so that we can vote on three parliamentary motions. Colleagues, so first question: Paul Kiskar to the President of Ukraine for receiving State awards for the Second Battalion military special assignment "Donbas" military part 3027 of the First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. First of all, I ask you to support this request and I ask you to vote. Please vote. The first vote was 150 votes. [[11:39:04]] For-161 Thank you, the request has increased. But now we have 226 votes addressed to the President. The President's address is 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u62	Colleagues, take your seats, please identify yourself, identify yourself for this request. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u63	Please support the referral of this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:39:54]] For 168 Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. We're in the same place. Tetjana Crnovol's next request to the President of Ukraine for the exclusion of Peter Prashenko's Block from the faction – Nedaly Oleg Anatoliyovich. Please vote in favour of this request. Please. Tetjana Crnoval to the President of Ukraine on the expulsion from the faction of Peter Prashenko – Nedavi Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u64	Colleagues, please, no, no, wait a minute! You're all here now. Be determined by voting, fellow Members. Why are we indignant? The MP's put you in a position to identify yourself. Well, what are you talking about? Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u65	Please vote. Anyone who supports this request, please vote. [[11:41:08]] For-19 Thank you, thank you. Next. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the President of Ukraine on the removal of the fine "is not subject to publication" and on the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the U.S.R. and the USSR, former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company, and members of their families, who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Ministry of Ukraine, and the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. I ask for the support of this request to vote. Please vote. [[11:41:58]] For-161 Thank you. And we now vote in favour of sending this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of referral to the President. Please. [[11:42:21]] For-173 Thank you. Unfortunately, the proposal did not get the required number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda. And I'd like to ask you to be very careful, because this is going to be the definition of the future work of this commission, which was approved by a city head and approved by Parliament's decision, you remember that. That's why we're about to hear the report. There will be suggestions from the commission, and we need to determine them accordingly. Please invite the head of the Borislav Berezu working group. Please perform in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The working group was formed on a parity basis with representatives of the Committee on Law Enforcement and the Committee on Prevention of Corruption. The working group included 14 national deputies, 7 of each committee, respectively. The Head of the Supreme Council was appointed to generalize the results of the joint meeting of the Committee on the results of the inspections carried out by the Committee, other facts of abuse in the internal sector of the economy and to assess the legal qualification of these matters to the law enforcement authorities. The above-mentioned companies, institutions and organizations of the public sector of the economy, which were audited by the State Financial Inspectorate, have entered the list. Public financial inspection was carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Dear colleagues from Self-Help, from Self-Help, I would be very grateful if you would listen or go out and listen. Thank you! I understand you don't understand English. Okay, I'm moving to Russian. Listen, either sit down or go out there and listen. [[B in m in s a l in]] A public stock company called The Ripper. I don't understand. It's just something's going on. Maybe you'll sit down or something. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand this is very interesting to Ukraine, but it's interesting, perhaps you too. Because you, you were chosen by the Ukrainian voters. If you don't understand it, you look like you're smiling right now. Ukratransgaz public stock company from 01.10.2012 to 31.05. This Decision The public stock company "The Ripper" for the period from 1.01.2012 to 31.05. This Decision Ukrainian state-owned post office company "Krošta" for the period from 01.08.20123 to 10.11.2014. Ukrainian State Administration of Rail Transport "Urzaliznica" from 01.01.2014 to 30.09. This Decision State-owned company Ukrzalníszpástích from 01.01.2014 to 13.10.2014. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance from 01/01/11 to 01.04. This Decision Public stock company Rodowod Bank 01.01.2008 after 26.09.2014. State Enterprise Ukrainian National Radio Centre from 01.09.2013 to 10.08.2014. State Enterprise Antonov between 01.01.2006 and 30.09.2014. Public Shareholders Association State Food Grain Corporation of Ukraine from 01.01.2013 to the first half of 2014. Agrarian Association public from 01.01.2013 to the first half of 2014. State-specialized institution "Agrarian Fund" from 01.01.2013 to the first half of 2014. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 11 / 06 2010 by 09.05. This Decision State-owned air traffic service firm Ukraine Aerolouch of 01.09. 13 times 01.05. 14. State Enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. National Bank of Ukraine 17.06 11 to 29.07.14 and Naftogaz National Stock Company in Ukraine from 01.01.12 to 09.07. 14. In total, eight meetings were held, and more than 100 were sent. Including the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Financial Inspectorate. Members of the working group were heard by almost all of the companies, institutions and organizations listed above, except for the public stock company Ukranafta. According to the results of the DFI tests, about 1,000,500 criminal cases and conducts have been initiated, and 570 separate acts of the audit have been added to the materials of the crime. The State Financial Inspectorate has repeatedly requested the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to allow for the disclosure of the evidence of a pretrial investigation, including the provision of materials to members of the working group. The relevant persons, investigators, and prosecutors are not allowed to disclose the information of the pretrial investigation. In addition, according to some audit materials, the law enforcement authorities have received letters about a direct ban on publishing any of the results of our group's audits. The ban was also confirmed by a letter dated 04.04.2015 from the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine signed by Rector Lithuania. In addition, the working group has established and documented numerous non-derogables of the employees of the Democratic People's Republic of Ukraine by counterparties of the PAT "Krkrgasgaz", the Pat "Ukrtransgaz", the DP "Ukrainian National Radio Centre", the Pat "National Food Grain Corporation of Ukraine", the Pat "Agrarian Fund", the DSBU "Agrarian Fund", the DP "Air Traffic Services of Ukraine", the Ukraine "Ukraine", the Naek "Energoatom" and the PAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". In the work of the working group, these will usually be conclusions and recommendations, and in the work of the working group we have the sabotage of the Attorney General's Office. Its representatives did not provide questionable information regarding the number of criminal conducts registered under the DFI audit, the systematic lack of representation of GSPs, to a working group that in turn makes it impossible to monitor and assess the effectiveness of the law enforcement investigation. In addition, it is worth noting that, according to the transcript of the meeting of the V.I.A. on 10 April 2015, Speaker Vladimir Borisovich Groysman commissioned the Ukrainian Attorney General, and we also discussed this issue with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and this is our joint position that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, should report to the Supreme Council on the state of the investigation of the public facts and other facts of the abuse in the public sector by 7 May. As of today, no national MPs have heard such a report in the Parliament Hall. The other one. Members of the working group insist that the Law on Interim Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council, Bill 1098, signed by all coalition leaders, be adopted in the next plenary week from 10 to 22 May. In view of the sudden response to the call from the working group, it was not possible to obtain information from the Cabinet and the PSC regarding the reasons and legality of Mr. Gordonck’s release from office. And give a proper assessment of that fact. So we can stress that he was released illegally. In response to the call from the working group, it was not possible to obtain information from the Cabinet and the minister of finance that the procedure for drafting and passing the relevant bill, which was designed to remove 70 percent of the funding from the State Financial Inspectorate and to assess the fact accordingly. The members of the working group noted that the decline in funding of the DFI was not a single case; the government had reduced the spending of the budget on almost government services to save funds for additional financing of the defence sector. It is clear from the scope of the responsibilities imposed on the DFI that the funding of the warning body is to be financed at an adequate and high level. It is the DFI that has experienced the greatest cuts from the government, and this can be direct pressure. In the work of the working group, it can be concluded that the state of affairs today is the vested influence of national deputies on the appointment and work of state enterprises. There is a need to develop rules and procedures for the appointment of directors of state - owned enterprises. At the legislative level, to introduce a mandatory act of taking action from the old head of the state enterprise to the new, to create a permanent parliamentary commission of control over the activities of state enterprises and to give them the functions and legal status of the interim commission of inquiry. Members of the working group, coming from available research materials, note that there is no direct criminal activity of the Prime Minister. But they conclude that he is responsible for the illegal acts committed by the Cabinet members, his ministers, and the heads of state enterprises. And now I want to tell you the facts of what's going on in the state sector of the economy. Ukraine's state-owned grain corporation, damages of $162.3 million due to overpayment of insurance payments by the UK "Guarant Prestige". Judgement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u68	I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u69	That's impossible. Five more minutes. That's impossible. That's a name! It's a name. The MPs who are in this room right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u70	Look, five minutes, but you're done, okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u71	If they don't let us name those names, we'll think it's pressure on our group. Please! On the last day of his tenure, the leaders of the PAT "FPA" count 521,9 million dollars without any obligation to the latter before the "FPA". As we know, Tetjana Koptenko, a former accountant of the State Crop Company, paid almost 68 million dollars in tax debt and fines in her own pocket to close the criminal case of tax evasion of the state corporation. Prosecutors ’ materials show that not only 52 million dollars and income taxes were paid on March 31 and April 1, but 13 million dollars of financial sanctions and 2 million pennies. All of this was done by the former head accountant of the State Corporation. Once again, the head accountant of the State Corporation, the civil servant, in his own pocket. It was later that the prosecutor of the Pecher district of Kiev announced on April 24 that he had committed a crime. But Koptenko gave the investigators a receipt to pay all the necessary amounts and asked her to release her from criminal liability. The following agreed and appealed with due concern to the Cave Court of Kiev, which satisfied him. Coptico paid off the tax debt. A few days after the announced DFS chief contest, the case against her was closed the next day after Mr. Nasirov’s victory. The sole culprit of the tax infringements in the PDA was the chief accountant, and no charges were brought against the top managers of the corporation and Mr. Nasirov himself who worked there. The revision was carried out. The Agrarian Association of Public Shareholders. The audit was carried out from 01.01.2013 to 01.01.2014. It is worth noting that in September 2014 Minfin formed the statutory capital of PAT "Agrarian Fund" by recalculating an internal government loan bond company with a nominal value of 5 billion dollars. When the Battles were fought in Maidan during the Dignity Revolution of Pat Brokbiznesbank and Pat "Agrarian Fund" on behalf of and for which the TV "Investment Capital" (actual manager of the Gontareva Valerija) was acting on the basis of a contract and brokering services, they entered into a contract for the purchase and sale of domestic government bonds under the terms of the repurchase of the REPO operation, under which the respective "Agrarian Fund" bonds of the domestic state were confiscated at the price of 2 billion dollars, and that money was lost for Ukraine. Public stockholder. Now, wait, please. Ladies and gentlemen, will you give me time to read it all or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Then all the names.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u72	Colleagues, there's been a call to the deputies. I'll give you 15 minutes. After the deadline, I will put your proposal to the vote, in accordance with article 214 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sorry, 240s.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u73	A public stock company called Crushing. In total, the audit has set the cost of $350 million to $376 thousand. This act of "The Crushing" was signed with objection, which is now being brought to trial in the district court in Kiev. There is no information in the PAT about the challenge of law enforcement officials, and no one is interested in them. This is not interesting, perhaps, for the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine. The question of the conduct of the service inspection and the involvement of employees in the responsibility will be decided upon after the decision of the case is essentially in court. The audit act was attached to the criminal conduct materials investigated by the GPU on 07.05. This Decision The result of the DFI's cross-check was that only two counter-operators were able to check out the 9th: TV "Favorite System" and TV "Diom". The rest did not allow the DFI to perform a cross-check. There was no takeover of cases from old leader Yuri Borisov to the new and current Sergey Kosyuk, and there was no draft of such an act. At the time of adoption of the management’s words, internal inventory was checked and acts were filed. No internal inventory of members of the working group has yet been received. National company Naftogaz Ukraine. The audit materials were received up to four tours. Criminal conduct, which investigates the Ministry of Internal Affairs in part five of article 195, part two of article 364: "Illicit possession of property of a particularly large size and abuse of official status."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u74	Look, don't let anyone say you're not allowed to speak. I'll give you two more minutes. Finish up, please. And if you don't finish, I'll put a motion to the vote. Just so you don't speculate on the subject. Yesterday you came to me and you say, Vladimir Borisovich, I need 10 minutes to perform. You have 10 minutes. If I was told yesterday 15 you'd be 15. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u75	I'm asking everyone for another 10 minutes because we have very interesting names. Mr. Mikola Martinenko, Mr. Jeremeyev and others. If you want, you're interested in what question, you'll hear me out. A public stock company called Crucresnaft. No audit was carried out in 2014. According to Gordijenko, in the 12-13s, Ukratransnafta did not release auditors for inspection, motivated by the fact that it was a non-state enterprise. The arrival and distribution of gas. Under the order of the CMU, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, from 26.11.2014, issue 1211-R on the approval of the projected balance of arrival and distribution of natural gas for 2014, signed by Prime Minister Yatsenuk, we note the following. The Crushing Pat is going to extract 15 billion 111 million cubic metres of Ukrainian cheap gas and give it to the population. Instead, only 13 billion $350 million were given. So there's 1 billion 754 million cubes somewhere. We don't know where. It's not a technical gas. The Ukranafta Pat was to extract 1 billion 756 million cubes and give it to the population. Instead, I gave you 0. As a result of the 3 billion - billion - billion - million - cubic - cubic - million - of - gas, (which) consumers were given expensive imported gas. The total loss is 2 billion 100 million dollars. State Enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoate. Planned revision of the period 01.9.13 to 30.01.15 "Energot" signed the audit with objection. The revisions cover 15 billion dollars. The revision began.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, at the end of time, there is an offer, Oleg Lazko. No, 15 minutes, colleagues. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I think all the Ukrainians and everyone here in the Chamber of Deputies see how interesting and exciting our colleague Borislav Bereza is. Let's give this talented man the opportunity to continue his speech. Let him speak for three hours, you know, for everyone to hear. But I have one big request for you, Borislav, at least, half of the 15 minutes you're talking about, you've wasted on yourself. And you spend it on the report, don't look beautiful, report it. And without pauses, don't delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u78	Oleg Valeriyovich, if you'll excuse me, I understand you can speak for five hours, but I'm sorry, there's a rule. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u79	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u80	It's your right, it's your right. Let it go, I don't mind. I gave you 15 minutes. In 15 minutes it's possible to say anything. Colleagues, please, we still have information from the Attorney General. And I'm interested in having the deputies vote today to continue the work of this committee, because that was your commission. Please, please, there's an offer to add another 10 minutes to the speaker. Ten minutes to complete the report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Let's vote, let's make it! Let him speak out, who's against it? [[12:03:21]] For-157. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm adding five more minutes, I'm adding five more minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you five minutes and please finish. And there's information from the Attorney General's Office. Please. Now, let's figure out, look, you're going to define the exact same thing right now and say that in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u81	Names! Now, please start with your last names. Please start with your names. Please start with your names, do not delay, speak immediately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u82	Can I talk? The revision is covered. Yes, the basic nuance. Conducting cross-checks, animals by. The DFI's Energoatom operations were denied the ability to carry out the commissioned check on the absence of counterparties. So there's no way to test the beasts we meet for a total of 4 billion dollars. According to these facts, the DFI has turned to the IMF, the GPU, the DFS, the registration service, the law enforcement agencies. They didn't help anything. All they did was confirm the information that was still in the register. In addition, the Department of Internal Audit of Minernergogil carried out a pre-planned review of specific issues of financial and economic activity, I read, of Energoatum activities since 01.04. 13 times 01.03. 2014 A series of overexpenditures and other expenses have been set up. Under the transcript, the co-workers stated that it has been widely known that for many years the affiliate influence on this enterprise has had a valid nardep from the People's Front, the head of the fuel and energy committee of the VRU Mikola Martinenko. Audit services have been ordered for 1 billion 422 million dollars. Expenditure on legal and other audit services in the form of other expenses is over 2 million dollars. The service of 46 light cars, spent 18 million dollars in 2014. On average, almost 394,000 dollars per car. An old car service course cost $50,000 a budget! According to information from Energoatom, in 2013 they spent 2.4 million dollars on 19 Toyota Camri cars. On average, 126,000 dollars per car. And in 2014, 20 cars, the same Toyota, spent 2 million 264,000. On average, 113,000 dollars per car. One unit of transport, this is a Toyota Camri car, 770,000 dollars a year. That's $100,000! Which is more than three times the cost of the car itself. In his written response, Energoatoma did not confirm the amount of 770,000 per car. He noted that the head of the Department of Car Management, Mr. Bugayov, had been drawn to disciplinary responsibility. On the other hand, 26, 11 and 14, with the consent of the parties, information was not transmitted to the law enforcement authorities and their abuses. For some 300 million dollars, purchases and outsourcing were made, and 165 million were immediately sent to fictitious firms. I repeat, 165 million, Mr. Lazko. The DFI concluded that more government purchases were made with companies that the DFS would define as fictitious. Ukrainian State Administration of Rail Transport Cruise. A pre-planned audit. Wait, I, did you want names? Please. It's a state-owned cruise company. Yes, at the time of the hearing of the DP "Urzlnízníszpástích" and the deputy minister of infrastructure, it was established that the decision of the economic court of Kiev dated 03.06.2014 had been lost. The ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal and the confirmation of the Supreme Court's ruling changed the terms of the contract concluded between the Railways and the First Fuel Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u83	Mr. Jeremeyev! Mr. Jeremeyev, I tell you! So I want to tell you who. In addition, this company, Air Jet, which has caused damage to Ukraine in the amount of 300 million, 006 thousand, 619 dollars. Oh, 6 grand, I'm sorry. He's part of the Continium Group of National Deputy Igor Jeremeyev. The company was founded in May 2014. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you have a minute? Anton State Enterprise. The leaders of Dmitri Kiva. Fact. Damage due to the impossibility of returning $345.7 million from the Broc business bank. On their application, they put that money on deposit, but they couldn't pay it back. I still have a lot of facts. But understand, if you don't continue with the work of our group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u84	Come on, 30 seconds, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u85	I can't complete this in 30 seconds because we have 17 companies that we've checked. It's impossible physically in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u86	But not the work of the commission in 30 seconds, but finish the speech in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u87	I am grateful to all of you, and I would appreciate it if we voted on Tuesday to extend the work of our working group or turn it into a TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u88	Thank you, colleagues. Look, dear colleagues, I'd like you all to come into the hall, please. You will recall that it was my commission to start the work of this group. I think there's a need to continue her work. The speaker did not say how long to continue the work of the commission. Please, Bereza. Wait a minute. One minute is Yuri Lucenko, then Andrew Teteruk, one minute. And we still have information from the Henprocurator, colleagues. Yuri Lucenko, please. I ask everyone to return to the hall and ask everyone to vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and distinguished reporter, Borislav, I am addressing you. Borislav, I'm talking to you. I have in my hands a report from your task force from our faction as a member of this group. And I'm looking at what you've been doing, at least two businesses are not here. There's no grain company here, no Nazbank. I'm not going to cover anyone, but I have a question at the time, whether you were speaking with your own mind or with a paper voted on by the working group. So this is a document, and what I'm hearing probably doesn't match it. In this regard, I insist that the work of the working group be quality rather than pianist. Because actually, three quarters of the sound was heard from Mr. Gordijenko's report. Then I have a question, and the task force has reached something new? If not, then form a mandate, and we will create a second working group. If you are unable to give a result, say so. But stop reading other people’s documents by making them look sensational. In this sense, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u90	Please finish, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u91	I don't see any conclusions, and so I don't believe that a working group in this composition can produce results. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u92	Andrew Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u93	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Borislav Bereza, thank you very much for the interesting and meaningful report on the deep work that has been done by your group. The People's Front faction will support your group's extension for another 10 days. But I want you to notice, I say, don't interrupt me, please. The work group should focus on the accusations it was made of, not on all the other points where it can be called meaningless facts, meaningless names, and all that. So I ask you to focus on what the group was going to do and to be objective, not just another pianist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. There's information. Please, a minute, Sergey Sobolev, then Yegor Sobolev and then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you what this working group was for, although you know, the first proposal was the TSC. She had to confirm the facts presented by Mr. Gordienko. As I understand it, I am addressing Mr. Lucenka, the task force has done its job, every fact, and you yourself have confirmed that every fact presented by Mr. Gordienko has been confirmed by the working group. Unfortunately, during this time the working group was unable to do all the work and make a thorough report, which is why it is necessary or to create a temporary special commission that will allow it to be completely objectively called for questioning, to call witnesses of those who conceal these facts, or to continue the work of the group in order to have all the other facts clarified. This is the task of the task force, and this is our proposal. The vote has to be made on Tuesday. Everyone understands.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u97	If it's a temporary commission -- 150 votes, if it's a continuation of the working group, and you don't have to vote, it was created by your orders. You just keep on doing your job and it's still working. Is that why I don't understand that we should vote now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u98	Thank you. We have to vote on what we did last time, and I said it would be, and I'm going to say it now. I then said that it would be created by any means of my command, but I asked the MPs to confirm it by most MPs. This was confirmed by their vote. Now we've heard the information, and I'm going to ask the deputies to continue. If it doesn't continue, I'll continue with my orders anyway. But I would like the entire Parliament to bear responsibility for this. And I agree with that, you said the facts were confirmed. Okay, I agree. And in what way did you confirm them, in words? Here's a question. Please, Anton Gerashchenko, a minute and then Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u99	Deputies! As a member of the working group to investigate the application, I can speak with responsibility and ask Mr. Borislav Berezu to hear the head of the working group. The work of such a working group should be extended. By order of the Head, please vote in favour of the People's Front faction, will vote in full for the extension of the working group. Why? Because any allegations of corruption against any government: Azarova, Timoshenko, Yatzenyuk, they must be investigated and each fact must be evaluated. That's it. That's why we're going to vote. We need to vote. But there must be investigations and answers in all cases of corruption, but no one must make a loud accusation. I therefore support any extension of the work of such a working group, and the facts of such corruption must be assessed, and thieves must sit in prison. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Egor Sobolev, then I'll give you three minutes to inform the Attorney General's Deputy General, he's in the hall today, and then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u101	First of all, let's face it, we need to continue to learn parliamentary control, let's thank our colleagues who worked in the working group, and at the same time, let's ask for even better work in this working group. The other one. The Self-Help Group proposes to publish this report, officially voted by members of the working group, on the Internet, so that not only parliamentarians, but all voters have access to this information. Third. The Self-Help faction invites us to focus on control: what will the Attorney General do with these facts? Because our task is not only to expose those facts but also to imprison all who are guilty of abuse. And the fourth. From this working group, from the other problems that we face, we all see that we need to create a special law on TSCs -- temporary investigation committees that will officially call and officially collect testimony from criminals and those who expose them. Let's focus on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u102	Thank you. I think it's a great idea to publish reports. That's very true. Please, Oleg Easy, then three minutes General. First Deputy Attorney General, and then we vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I think I'm expressing the opinion of most of this room. According to the report, it's a disappointment. We've been waiting for more. We've been waiting for specific facts, not to recount what the whole country knows, we've been waiting for specific names, and in 20 minutes, we could call it "Yvanov" a clear telegraph style. Petrov. Sidorov." Stole a billion, stole two, fled abroad, didn't escape, continued in office, continued to steal or plant. So that's what society's waiting for. Not a pharaoh, because in fact, corruption is the most evil of our country. And if instead of actually fighting corruption and taking on the responsibility of corrupters, that's what we're up against, then there's no less corruption in the country. I therefore urge Parliament to continue the work of the working group, but to significantly strengthen its staffing structure, which would be professionally involved in these investigations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Pavlovich Guzir, First Deputy Attorney General. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u105	Can I get out of here?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u106	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the verification of Ukraine’s public financial inspection of possible financial violations and other abuses in the public sector, the Ukrainian Attorney General, in accordance with your mandate, sent relevant information to the Supreme Council on May 7. In order not to deviate from this official information, with your permission, I will tell you exactly what it refers to, and then on behalf of the statements made by the distinguished national deputy of Bereza prior to the meeting of the Supreme Council. By your permission. Since March 23, 2015, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has initiated a judicial investigation into the facts that have been published by the national deputy Lewchenko in this Chamber on behalf of the statement and under the circumstances that have become known to him from Mr. Gordijenko's statement. Criminal conduct is investigated by the authorities for the purpose of conducting investigations in a comprehensive and objective manner. Investigators in particularly important matters, administrations of corruption, created. or made by ministerial servants who hold a particularly responsible position. For this reason, Mr. Gordienko was questioned as a witness who fully confirmed the circumstances that had been made public. With your permission, I won't stop at this, they're pretty detailed right now. In fact, the circumstances that Gordijenko claimed. I'd like to be absolutely clear, and the Attorney General says in his letter that before Gordienko and his subordinates of the State Financial Inspectorate recorded in the relevant documents the lack of money and came out, I'm sorry, and they amounted to more than 7.5 billion, of which more than once were discussed. According to all these facts, only 12 of them have already been investigated by the prosecution’s investigators, internal affairs departments, and the Security Service. As part of the pretrial investigation of these 12 conducts, I'd like to draw attention to that, it's a special order of examination, you know, it's defined by law. Thus, in the context of criminal proceedings before investigating judges, the issue of obtaining permission and the obligation of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to carry out checks on the economic and financial activities of those operators who were speaking in the speech of the distinguished Mr. Bereza. Thus, the task of investigating bodies and these acts have been carried out, and they are being tested for today as part of criminal, 12 criminal conducts. I emphasize that these 12 criminal conducts have nothing to do with the criminal conduct that was initiated at the commission of the Supreme Council, first of all. The head of the 23th Supreme Council sent Mr. Levchenk’s statement to the Attorney General’s office, which led to the investigation. These are separate objects of investigation. So, with your permission, in the section of today's question, I've informed you. That the prosecution of the Attorney General's Office is not a valid statement from the task force that the prosecution general is boycotting. I think it will be confirmed, as a minimum, by the two committees of the Supreme Council, that I personally took part in a joint meeting of committees headed by the national deputies of Soboljev, Cosemyakin. I informed the honourable committee about the circumstances of this criminal investigation. The questions to me, at first glance, did not arise. After that, a working group was set up to demand that the worker be even more improperly placed there, so that the Attorney General of Ukraine personally participates in the work of the group and at the stated time from 10 o’clock in the morning to 16 o’clock in the evening. The Attorney General and the prosecutors, believe me, have great respect for the people's defenses. But no less respect, honourable national MPs, and the law. Indeed, the Rules, namely the Law of Ukraine, define the mandate of the legitimate body to which the Interim Commission of Inquiry, the Committee of the Supreme Council, appears, indeed, a meeting of the Supreme Council. And of course, we're informing. And the Attorney General, according to the law, appears and informs national MPs and national defenders. But work, if you'll excuse me. But the job, if you'll excuse me, is an amateur working group of national MPs, and I'm pushing away from the letter of the law, we really respect it, but it's illegal from the point of view of the law. And the last. The amateur expressions of the National Deputy of Bereza, who were before the beginning of this meeting, are so unacceptable, in my view, the humiliation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who was appointed in this Hall, I think they could be realized at the expense of the Lord, the National Deputy, your right given to you by the Constitution, the Law. Legislative initiatives, please, as the legislator in this room, draft legislation on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure Act, legitimately make this working group. And then what will be the decision. Any information will be given to this working group. And by the way, what Yuri Vitaliovich said. All the materials you're going to collect are in terms of permissibility and legality, they can be used in the course of pretrial investigation as evidence in criminal conduct. And the last. I understand that today I am expected to receive information on how Mr. Gordijenko's statements have been confirmed. Let me tell you that these figures -- almost 8 billion today -- I'll tell you what, they haven't found their confirmation. Why? Because under these circumstances, by all means, these are huge sums. The assignment is subject to court-accounting expertise. Thus, experts do not fully agree today with the amount shown by the auditors. And based on court practice, my experience, that's what happens. To speak about the nature of this money, I announced at a joint committee meeting a figure of 685 million, which our auditors identified as having been discovered during the period of operation of what our government did. It's the nature of all this money, it doesn't apply to the state budget. This is the subject’s money. the host entities that are in force by those.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u108	I say it's the money of the host entities. It's not the government budget money, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u109	Let me finish now, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u110	I get it, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u111	Please do not hesitate to represent the Attorney General’s first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u112	I understand everything you want to hear from me. Yes, the issues raised by the national MPs, including the working group, which are related to allegations of government corruption and, in particular, the heads of government, Prime Minister of Ukraine Yatsenuk, have not been confirmed today in the context of the pretrial investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u113	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Pavlovich. I have an offer, colleagues, please take your seats, please. Let's vote for the sequel. About the sequel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u114	About the sequel. You'll be yelling in front of the mirror at yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u115	You go out into the towers now, there's a mirror, and you stand up and yell at yourself. You don't have to yell at me. Look, fellow officers of honor. In front of the mirror. Dear colleagues, I stress that we must now vote on the decision to proceed. If it's not voted out, if it's not voted out, I'll just sign the commission's extension. But I'm asking you to take a direct part in this. To give this power as the Ukrainian Parliament, please, dear friends, I ask you very much. Would you please be ready to vote? Please support everyone. 254 people's deputies are now in the room. I'm asking every national MP to vote each, please. To continue the work of the Working Group for another two weeks. Then we'll have the information, we'll figure it out. Let's not make this a bland process. Please support all your colleagues. I'm asking everyone to support the two-week extension. And for next week's plenary report again. We'll set it in the afternoon. Keep it up, fellas! Please let's vote. If you'll excuse me, please vote, my friends. Please support. Please, everyone, please. [[12:29:59]] For-189 189. 257 cards! Guys, let's do it again, please. Please vote in person, please vote in person! Please, let's vote. Vote. Please vote everyone, my friends. Please vote. [[12:30:26.]] For 190 Thank you. Dear friends, 190, the decision is not made. But as Head of the Supreme Council today, since the report took place according to a previous decision, today I will continue my two - week work on this commission. In two weeks, we'll be waiting for your public report. Thank you to the attorney general's first deputy. Vladimir Pavlovich, thank you very much for participating in the work. I wish all of us success in this. And in the next speech, please better name the names, and the facts are confirmed so that we don't waste time. Because we've just announced, we need to get everyone in jail right now, at least one. Then everything will be fine. Thank you, Your Honor. We're continuing our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Since we work with you all the time, this is how I propose. So we can finish our work early. Now we're not going to read the questions. We'll read the questions next week. Now, if you'd like to sign up for the Miscellaneous. We won't have time for "Virgin" then. Please. It's a recording. Yes, please National Deputy Alexei Kirichenko, Radical Party. Oleg Valeriovich Lyszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable national MPs, as I have repeatedly warned, have made fundamental concessions to the Russian aggressor, whom President Poroshenko of Minsk has legally led to the legalization of the fighters of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and the LNR as direct partners in the negotiations. This is what happened recently at the next meeting of the international triangular contact group. For the first time, negotiations in Minsk took place in the form of working groups in meetings, which were already held by leaders of Lugani and Doña terrorists and separatists. As the fighters boldly said, a full dialogue was launched between Ukraine and Donetsk and Lugansk, who was practically on equal footing. The same is true of Putin’s long - standing desire to move from an international form of victory to an internal Ukrainian. That is, the negotiations of the Kiev authorities with the so-called Donbas militia. This should indicate to the world community the internal nature of the conflict in Ukraine and prove that there is no military aggression in Russia and civil war in Ukraine. As an additional bonus, Putin received legalization in the negotiating process of Victor Medvedchuk, his best man and chief agent in Ukraine. The inclusion of this 100 percent man Putin as a representative of Ukraine in one of the working groups was reported by Leonid Kuchma. It's called survival. This development is seen as another step in the path of national betrayal and surrender to the enemy. The radical party's position is consistent. We strongly disagree with the shameful policy of apprehension of an aggressor aimed at trying to satisfy his appetite with political compromises, our sovereignty, including the constitutional and administrative structure of our state. Such a policy only demonstrates weakness and encourages the aggressor to pursue further military action. In this way war cannot be avoided. Putin will move on. Because he really doesn't need a peace process in Minsk, but the division of the world in the new Yalta, when Putin, as the new Stalin, along with Obama and Merkel instead of Roosevelt and Churchill, arranged for a new division of zones of influence in Europe and the world. You can't let that happen. I believe that Ukraine's mission, along with the entire civilized world -- secured by Putin's trial at the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Putin is to sit on the new Nuremberg tribunal. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u118	Thank you. National deputy Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u119	Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we have just heard a report from the working group on the investigation of government corruption. Although the speaker was constantly interrupted, he was not allowed to finish the speech, I believe that the presentation was meaningful enough, filled with facts and was largely in line with the goal that was set for the working group when it was created, namely, the examination of the facts set out by the former Head of the State Fiscal Service, Mr. Gordijenko. And the Commission's conclusion is clear, all the facts are confirmed. There were new names, unfortunately, of our colleagues from the hall, who, according to the working group, according to what they have, are involved in the manipulation of government money. In doing so, a number of questions were raised by the Deputy Attorney-General, although I first stopped not on questions, but on the facts that the Prosecutor-General’s First Deputy. He said that, first, due to Gordienko’s allegations, 12 criminal cases have been committed, second, the conduct of these criminal cases has not been completed today. And that's why the attorney general's first deputy has no legal basis for making any conclusions, and it's only fair that the conduct is not completed. And there's a process check of the data that Mr. Gordienko gave the prosecution. And by the way, the attorney general's first Deputy Attorney General has made it clear that at this point some of these charges have been confirmed and documented in the materials of these 12, I emphasize, criminal cases. The same situation applies to the charges against Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. The situation for today is ongoing. Let us look forward to the conclusions that will come after the end of the tours, which will be at the end of the working group, which will be given to society to objectively assess what is happening not only in the field of the Cabinet of Ministers, but primarily in the sphere of state monopolies, in the sphere of state-owned enterprises whose direct responsibility lies with the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u120	Thank you very much. Yegor Sobolev now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u121	Militia, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is a huge white and a problem that we propose to solve immediately. All of you and I have observed a scandal surrounding the resignation of the minister of the interior affairs of Chobotar, with meat, with blood, after our committee has announced that we will initiate the resignation of Habakkuk himself, the Chobotar has left. But who is appointed to take his place? His human being, entirely, is 100 percent dependent on him to continue that policy of bribery, that policy of circulation, that policy of ignoring the rights of society and journalists conducted by Chobotar. What's more, let's mention that two weeks ago we were talking about another deputy minister of the interior of Sakala, who had the same key direction: this is an investigation. Maybe it's not the vice minister anymore. If every week, every month Parliament is fighting corruption at the IMF? The Midan case, all the lawyers of the Heavenly 100 say, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the least progress, the least desire to investigate who was the people who were killing, who were the people who tortured, who were the people who were throwing away without any law? Visa mode. The whole government says that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is the main one that slows down the conclusion of a treaty with the European Union. Most criticism from the European Union also applies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The main thing is not who's criticizing from the West. In every city, every village, every town, we're in Kiev, we don't feel like we've got a new real law enforcement agency, a police force. Zacharychenk’s militia, at large, continues to live with a hook a year after the victory of Eromaydan. A great request from all of us: let us, as the parliament that has taken responsibility for the country's fate, clean up the police and allow the new interior minister to make a new real Ukrainian European police.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u122	Thank you very much. National MP Andriy Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u123	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Please consider my statement a request to the U.S. Attorney Anatoly Mathios. We now have everyone who isn't lazy, they say, and it's true that 20 years ago the army was demolished, and it's only now being reborn. And I'd like to inform you, my dear colleagues, that -- very sorry that the Prime Minister is gone -- we have the only factory in Ukraine that manufactures secret communications technology, the Impulse Science and Technology complex, the only unique enterprise in Ukraine. And the war has shown how important these objects are for the state, in fact, they're being pillaged in a hurry, right, I'm a market thief, you know? He steals a purse and runs away, and if he imagines that someone recorded it on the camera, then he proves that nothing has happened. Just like a market thief, the general manager of the state firm Impulse is the Funeral of Oleg Leontijovich. Listen, they buy constantly flat computers, batteries, laptops, keyboards, other techniques, everything that the state-owned Impulse company buys, high prices. I'm asking the U.S. Attorney Mathios, where I'm ordering 19 million dollars. That may not be all. And what do we see? That during a period of war, when every person who cares every day knows that there is a lack of funds for an army, particularly for a secret relationship, the only enterprise in the country that manufactures the means of such a relationship instead of developing is stupidly looted by the director of the Funeral. It's stealing during the war. More to steal where it applies to the army. So the undertaker should be in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u124	Thank you. National MP Leo Podlisecki. Please. Please pass the word to Semenchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! At the end of August last year, it happened. Calm down! I think my speech in Russian will be wonderful to show the world that all the insinuations of Russian propaganda about the oppression of poor miners are just propaganda. I think in order to show this to the world, the people's deputy Teteruk will listen to me in Russian. Thank you. At the end of August last year, 459 soldiers of the Ukrainian army were killed in the Russian army in Kiev, 478 were wounded and captured by a large number of our boys who were subjected to bullying and torture and have not yet returned. A great deal of work has been done by the High Council of Inquiry to investigate the outcome of this tragedy. Interim conclusions were drawn that this was based on systemic errors and miscalculations by the leadership of the State and the leadership of the army in the country's defence organization. The case of Iloways is investigated for 8 months. The IL-76 case has been investigated for almost a year, which has broken down. He was shot down at Lugani Airport when 40 airmen and nine crew members were killed. More and more information is now being received about the fact that the facts are beginning to move, the cases are getting longer. The Anti-Corruption Committee and the Military Committee are requested to inform experts and witnesses in this case that the staff of the General Staff, in particular General Nazarov, the former ATO headquarters deputy, are under systematic pressure. There is a high probability that the case will be prolonged, that it will not be brought to justice, and that we will never know the perpetrators of the tragedy. If we do not know it, not only will we not be able to draw the line in that tragic history, but all of them will continue to commit their crimes. Il-76, Ilowaysk, Post Block, Donetsk Airport, Debalcevo – before we begin to win, we must undergo internal cleansing. An action team of members of the Supreme Council, together with veteran organizations, is establishing a public committee to monitor war crimes investigations. Our first two tasks are to obtain a public court and to bring cases to trial in Ilowaysk. We ask all indifferent members of the Supreme Council to support our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u126	Thank you very much. People's deputy Gusak. Please. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I was moved to speak from this rostrum by the Prime Minister, who answered questions. You know, I've been in this rostrum on many occasions about the city of Mariupol. And I understand that there are issues that are difficult to solve. Problems such as the problem of the same "Azumasha" with the loading of its orders, the re-establishment of the railway. But there are issues that can and must be resolved. On 25 January, there was a terrible tragedy in Mariupola. As a result of the terrorist attack, 31 people were killed, 118 were injured, many homes were destroyed, and people were practically homeless. At that time, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to provide 10 million bracelets of material aid. The city’s inhabitants accepted the matter with gratitude. Sadly, though, after that, certain qualities begin. First order. District Administration, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Policy “Determin the amount of payment and allocate funds for material assistance and funds to be recovered. On 16 March, the Regional Administration implemented the decision and transferred the documents to the Department in the city of Kiev. After consideration, the department drops the new form with separation: let's separate the victims, separate the technical problems. And let's have a look. They did, they gave it up on April 10th. In mid-April, they are reshaping the form: provide material assistance in one line, and list technical problems by act. May 7th. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance are now being agreed upon. Try to guess twice how long these paddies will last and when they are finished. People got hurt. Imagine the mood of the 15th commission and say, "We need to examine your home, where there is virtually no outer wall, and we need to make another act." There's not a penny of money in it. I am sincerely grateful to all the public organizations; the Metinvest factories that carried out enormous work there; the volunteers who carried out tremendous practical assistance. But where is the State? I have a strong request for a presiding officer. Let us give a specific mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers, set specific deadlines for us to understand when the people of the city will receive these 10 million, which must have been or should have been spent almost long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u128	Thank you very much. National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u129	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the deputies, brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. As ex-head of the working group investigating the millions of corruption in the government of Yatsenyuk and Azarov, I want to confirm that all the facts that the ex-head of the Financespectorate of Gordienko has declared are confirmed as the current financial inspection itself, as well as the Attorney General's Office. Because there's a lot of criminal behavior. But I also confirm that there is a constant sabotage of the working group, going to plot all those facts. In particular, the same Attorney General’s Office, who does not attend a meeting of a working group that prevents the State from providing specific figures in the last two sessions. And today, the Deputy Attorney General comes to the Supreme Council session and starts teaching MPs how to work! Arrests are necessary for those corrupts! They should show the actual facts of the arrest of corrupters, not tell and instruct national MPs! Also, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, we've asked for April 21st to continue the work of our group until June 2. Because there really are a lot of documents that need to be worked out in order to come out with a real report, today report to the Supreme Council in front of Ukrainian society. Today the Prime Minister of Ukraine has gone rogue. Because he said that this was only true of the government of Azar. That's not true! This is true of these figures, which have been echoed especially today, and of the government of Yatsenuk, especially as an example of the Ministry of Infrastructure, that is, transport and communications! When there are 780 million and a period, this is from January to September 2014! It is only for the government of Azar that has two months, and for the government of Yatsenuk six months! We will always demand, and as a member of the Working Group, as a national MP, I will do everything in my power to ensure that those misdemeanors are responsible for their crimes. And the Attorney General won't "go away" and tell us today that it's not like 685 million dollars does not apply to the state budget! And they apply to state-owned enterprises that make profits in the state budget of Ukraine! We'll do everything we can to get the corrupts to sit down! And the money that was stolen from the Ukrainian people was returned to the Ukrainian budget! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u130	Thank you. National MP, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u131	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear viewers, distinguished people of Ukraine! I'd like to quote to you now the words of a "great" statesman who now holds a very responsible position in our country. I quote: "The reckless and hasty privatisation of state-owned and municipal-owned enterprises has led to a sharp decline in the economy of Ukraine, has led to a decline in the welfare of citizens, has increased the state's irresponsibility for economic policy and continues to have an extremely negative socio-economic impact on the population of Ukraine. In the face of a financial crisis, sales of state and municipal enterprises are an ineffective option for the economic situation and can further reduce the state's control over economic policy." This is just the beginning of one passage, which, you know, who wrote it? This is a quote from the bill, from the Explanatory Note to the Bill, which was submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk on September 3, 2009, at the time of his signature. Look, here's an explanatory note. So it's the same Arseny Petrovich Yatzenuk who's offering to sell out strategic state-owned enterprises, profitable state-owned enterprises today. Sell out to his shareholders, such as Ivanchuku, such as Martinique, in fact, to make a profit for a small amount of money. For example, in the liquor industry, in the forestry industry, in the oil pipeline "Friends", in the seaports and so on and so forth, so that they can fat off the troubles of the Ukrainians. You see, this is an example of when a person was in opposition and wanted to please the people, he was saying and writing one thing, and now, when it comes to helping the shareholders live well, he's acting in a completely different way. And here's an example of what's happening in the country today, society, is an example of, in fact, the specific facts that today required so much from the rostrum and required others from the working group. It's a crime of privatization, it's a question of the Shrimp. That's a fact, here's your name. Why "Stranger" has not yet been returned to state property, although there is good reason to do so and it is recognized by the Attorney General's Office. That's the fact that people take 3,000, 600 dollars a gas when they can sell for a thousand dollars because we have Ukrainian gas that has this kind of, that kind of self-sustainability even with taxes. These are specific facts of corruption. Specific facts of corruption in an active government. So you don't have to tell people and wash stories, kill them that it's normal, that they're all clean and puffy. Let them return the Shrimp, let them put an end to the crime of privatization. Let them take care of the business. Then they will be true. And so far they're just playing with oligarchs and working on their oligarchs and the ones they said they were fighting yesterday. In fact, with whom they have been associated today, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u132	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Kryvoshea. Instead of the national MP Boyka, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u133	Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Madam Chairman! The crooked Gennady Grigorovich, the People's Front faction. Well, today before the speech starts, I would just like to warn everyone the MP and say that, dear friends, let's not, in principle, seek corruption, it's on the face and we should actually talk about it. To that end, we have law enforcement agencies that must fulfill their obligations. So let's focus on how they're doing, how they're doing their job, and how they're doing the tasks and tasks that we're giving them. At the same time, as I move on to my talk, I would like to focus on what is now happening in Kiev. Everybody's gonna say it's my main theme and it's hurt. I can't help but talk about it, because I have a whole series of references to the daily problem, especially the issue of hot water supply in many of the homes of our city of Kiev. What is the problem and what is the point. Well, first of all, why did I pay attention to that. Well, it looks like there's no hot water supply, there's a message, there's an announcement. But when I learned that statistics on childhood disease at the end of April and May had actually increased several times over the past few years, it was a warning. Why? Because it is impossible to turn off the hot water supply immediately from the end of the heating season, thereby provoking and motivating, and doing everything to make our children, our socially protected populations, sick for this simple reason. What is the reason why hot water is turned off? The main reason is not that repairs are taking place, but the main reason is that the Kiev city authorities are unable to account for the hot water supply provided by Kyivenergo. And even Kievenergo himself had at least a conscience and did not take such a disgraceful step, placing the city in power, turning off the hot water supply. Dear friends, but enough to be bullied, how much can we talk about this, how much can we be ashamed of our common common people? You don't have the money to set up a water heater because it costs you the right amount of money, you don't have the money to provide you with the right living conditions, and the city authorities, together with Kiyevenergo, are ashamed of it. And in view of the faction of the People's Front, a parliamentary request was sent to the people's deputies, in which we made our demands clear and we want to understand, and we want the city authorities to prove on what grounds the rules and legislative procedures have been violated. First. We demand a reasoned explanation regarding the absence of hot water supplies in Kiev. The other one. We're asking you to graph the planned hot switch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u134	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u135	Thank you. Planned hot water supply based on these planned shut-offs. In the event of planned shutdowns, we want the city authorities to notify people in time of repairs, a detailed list of such scheduled work with execution periods should be made available and illuminated on the website of the Kiev City State Administration, the justification of such work, including. Costs of repair work and explanatory notes for some jobs, because these are the use of budget funds, namely ours with you, citizens of honor, citizens of the city of Kiev. And to the end. We require information on the state of debt under the public shareholders of Kiyivenergo for services provided from hot water supply. Dear friends, let's think about our people. The People's Front faction for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u136	Thank you very much. Please follow the rules. People's MP, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Good day, we've been in this room and this week we've talked over and over again about whether today is not the only sector that actually gives money to the budget is the agricultural sector. At the same time, we're trying to save the village, they're all talking about it, but it's a whole different thing, it's a real raid, and the only living sector of our business and production is the agricultural sector. I'm always being approached by people with problems, and I'm just going to give you a few facts about how a real village dies today, and farmers die, mostly medium and small businesses. In the Kirovograd region, in the Golovani region, land is taken away, and contracts are forced to be signed at Tihypco’s pie. In the same Kirovograd area, my home district, the Beryozkin People's Deputy "Creativ" companies don't pay more than 42 million, thus tearing down the soying company of all solar seed producers in the Kirovograd region. In the Kyiv region, the enterprise, in Kagarlik, Rossawa today is actually raided, in the style of the '90s, under the cover of ATOs, simply by criminal groups is captured and today the entire crop collection in the Kyiv region in the Kagarlic region is broken. Listen, the managers who have led this company to bankruptcy and today more than 13 million debt to the budget, more than 25 million debt to the suppliers. Today they go into the enterprise, they steal the real manager, I'm talking about John Caldin, and these are the facts in the press, the facts in the statement are criminal conduct. Stealing, looting, beatings, and thus taking away businesses. This is what is happening today in the Kyiv region. I wrote an appropriate address to Minister Habakkuk, and we call on the head of the Kiev district police, Wadem Troyan, to draw attention to this and conduct all appropriate investigations. Because when we let the raiders, the oligarchs take over and actually destroy the agrarian sector today, we're going to lose the only real sector that finances our budget, it's the agrarian sector, it's farmers, small, and medium-sized businesses. Because these are the people who work in their regions. With regard to this company in Kagarlik, it is the largest enterprise in the area that provides jobs for people. Unless it's stopped today. If the police don't take action to investigate raids, in fact, the area will lose thousands of jobs, the villagers won't have jobs, the budget will lose money. So I ask you to pay attention to all the facts of the raiding of small, medium-sized farmers' enterprises, and to allow them to work for peasants, and to enable them to pay money in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u138	Thank you very much. People's MP Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u139	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. I wanted to talk about the problem of my district, but I need to talk more about that trolling that started right now from different sources of government corruption. You know, I'm looking at this fiscal reform that we started with the government initiative, and the Supreme Council approved, which is now increasing the income of local budgets, including through the introduction of new taxes that have been criticized here in this room, and I'm looking at where the logic might be in the government? If the government were pursuing corruption, it would centralize fiscal flows. Now we're going to have a billion in Odessa, a billion in Dnipropetrovsk -- plus a billion development costs, in my town of Suma -- plus 200 million, and so on every district front. Therefore, the People's Front has never denied investigating the facts of corruption, and we are convinced that those corrupt people who are really doing their jobs should be punished and imprisoned, but it is clear here that there is no logic in the actions and statements of those who speak of corruption. What is more, when privatization is tied up. All of us are constantly asked what reforms we are implementing. What reforms can be undertaken with such a huge inefficient public sector? Well, I've got a Sumska district printery. On one occasion, someone planned to include a printery in the list of objects that are not privatized. It's been 20 years, so if you want to talk about the Odessa factory, let's go back to privatization, we'll talk on the list, and you don't even approve of this idea. And such printeries, spirits factories, are the main lists of these objects that are on this list. Now I'm going back to the problems of the area. I call on the Ministry of Internal Affairs to investigate the tragedy that took place in Sixth, when unknown persons were polluted in the street, political insinuations are now taking place. A group of national MPs have now signed a press release on the investigation. And I demand that this investigation take place impartially and I demand that for the first time be punished, for the first time, those who did the same tragedy in Six in 2010, when pesticides were buried. The criminal case was loud — no one was jailed. This unpunished evil syndrome, when criminals were not punished in 2010, now they are manifesting themselves. And I also urge and draw the attention of the government, to the appeal signed by a number of National Deputies from the Suma, regarding the transport corridor to connect Suma with Kiev, is a 300 - mile [300 km] road that is not available. Six national deputies were signed in the direction of Suma, Romna, Priluca.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u140	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u141	And last of all, a railway connection. The sums do not have a railway connection with Western Ukraine. There used to be direct trains to Lviv. A large number of people went there. This is now Ukraine’s largest resort area, Carpathian. There is no direct train, and the number of calls to the Mini infrastructure has ended in nothing. So I demand that this train be restored to the government, and not just the bags could reach the district centers of Western Ukraine without being transplanted in Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs, it's a pity today. There's no government here now, but I'm going to the government. For whom do we reform? Are we reforming the International Monetary Fund, or are we doing it for the World Bank, or are we doing it to improve our position in the Doing Business? Who among the people has seen this Doing Business, what does it mean for people? I think we need to make reforms to improve the lives of a particular citizen. To create conditions that are normal for business in Ukraine. What are these conditions made up of? These conditions, the growth of the economy, they're made up of specific areas. And specific sectors are made up of specific enterprises. So we don't have the right to ignore the problems of specific manufacturing companies that are building the economy of Ukraine, which are creating jobs that provide exports that pay taxes in Ukraine. So I would like to address the Prime Minister personally with such a question. Now, we're adopting laws that are aimed at deregulation that are aimed at stimulating exports and so on. And at the time, things happen that separate businesses lose their ability to work at all because someone in the government has ineffectively worked. There was a report yesterday that one of the leading pharmaceutical manufacturing companies, Biopharma, stopped its production. It's stalling because they didn't get permission to export products in the Cabinet of Ministers for four months. Well, tell me, how could that be? In four months, do you not allow export to an enterprise that has an external market that has 500 jobs and that has a leading American company that has also invested in a number of other businesses in Ukraine?Oh, my God! This American investor approached me as the head of the profiling committee and as the co-chair of the "Ukraine-US" inter-parliamentary friendship group. And I must now address the Prime Minister, I ask you to resolve this question. Give this example. And this needs to be done on a systematic basis so that such questions do not arise. Because somewhere we pass laws, and somewhere we lose real exports, we lose real taxes, we lose real economic future. In order not to sound such questions from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, but to hold weekly operational meetings. Once again, from the Radical Party faction, I urge you to create an anti-crisis economic headquarters based on the Ministry of Economics, so that you can talk about real manufacturing companies that pay taxes that provide exports that depend on the stability of the bracelets on which the prices in the stores depend. We have to take care of them in order to have a powerful economy of our own, not to live on foreign loans and not to dance under a foreign button. So once again, let's create an anti-crisis economic headquarters or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u144	Please finish. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u145	Maybe someone doesn't see that today in the country, in fact, economic depression, and in order to get out of it, we need very consistent actions from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Parliament, the President's Administration, we're all in the same boat, so we need to do it right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u146	Thank you very much. National MP Timish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Dear colleagues! Gregory Timish, Peter Dustenka Block, strike group, 203 constituency. I represent the Chernobyl area, and I want to bring to everyone's attention, and I welcome you today's work on the border international movement between Ukraine and Romania. And if that's what happened, I'm not ready to tell you, because there's still a lot of technical disagreements. Our area is actively using modern instruments of international cooperation, allowing additional non-budgetary resources to address the most current and pressing problems of society and the region in particular. I want to say that the cross-border cooperation programme is implementing a project with international car crossings across the borders of Krasnoilsk and Djakovci within the framework of the neighbourhood programme. The budget of the programme is 3.5 million euros, which is run in the area by the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service. Unfortunately, for two years now, there has been no tendering for the company involved that would have done these jobs and finally opened this point of entry. I would like to say that the service of the Chernobyl Highways is more prepared to invest money, and there are already projects to continue the construction of highways in the Chernobyl area that would bring together these two points of the pass, which would greatly and very well improve the road connection between these points of the pass and the life of the population. The implementation of these projects will allow the opening and functioning of the Krasnoulsk and Dzikovci crossing points as an international item and will result from the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania, which was signed in 2014. Given that at the moment no work on the items has been started, this issue has been delayed since 2013, the money is in our treasury accounts, there is a risk that we will lose, as a minimum, 2 million and 192 thousand euros. Serious expenses. You can imagine almost 50 million dollars when we're talking about 60 million dollars, and the Prime Minister says from a high rostrum that these funds will still go to Migovo, Lviv, Lviv-Migow's direction to improve the auto-combination, there's money that's already in the treasury account, and somehow they don't move them. I want to take this opportunity and I want to. My statement is to take into account the question of the MPs, because this is where all of my fellow MPs who represent this region signed up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u148	Thank you very much. National Deputy Chizmar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u149	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Today, no normal person, and therefore a deputy representing the people of Ukraine, cannot help but worry about the situation in the field of tariffs in Ukraine for gas supplies, electricity, heat, and cold water. But the gas is the sharpest today. We know that nearly three times the population's gas tariffs have increased at a time when social standards have remained at a level that has never been able to provide for the normal consumption needs of citizens. The social minimum wage is 1117 dollars, the minimum social standard is 1218 dollars. That's not acceptable. We agreed with the government on June 1st, and it was a clear position of the Radical Party, to index all citizens' incomes and social standards according to the real state of the economy and the consumer market. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers is not even talking about this today, and as deputies, we don't see any indicators that are going to be included in the indexation. I think it's an important question that we have to ask the government the next day to make these new indexed social standards public, and they met the needs of citizens and the tariffs that they are. Our faction emphasizes that today’s task force should speed up its work by analysing the validity of tariffs. The crowd is waiting for us to conclude whether these tariffs are justified or not. Today we're set up there, and we're convinced that the corruption component, the damage to Naftogazu, was the result of the cost theft that was discussed in this lobby today. Imagine just one digit. In the past year, 2014, we set off free of charge, i.e. debt, from territories occupied and annexed, i.e. the occupied Lugansk and Donetsk regions, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 2.6 billion dollars for gas. There's a debt. Imagine that this is about, if we're taking the heat companies that give our communities heat today, it's roughly the consumption of a few areas of small, such as Winnitsky, Volinska, Zitomirska, Kirovogradska, Mikolayivska, Hersonska, Hmelnitska, Chernigivska, Chernigivska and Cerkaskie, together the heat companies consumed in the 14th year so much gas, for the amount that we gave free occupied and annexed territory. No one is responsible for this. And for that, the prosecutor's office isn't asking today about a criminal offence against officials who have committed these damages, which today, the sure and radical party is also sure that they're setting these tariffs to compensate for the damage. The population today cannot pay for terrorists and for the invaders, in any case, everyone pays for themselves, the tariffs should be adequate. We want to raise the question that although the Grants and Simplification Act has been amended today, it is indeed the merit of the Ministry of Social Work and Politics. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u150	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u151	If you don't mind. There are inadequate standards for people with disabilities and pensioners. And the rate that today's low grant formulation is saying that. We believe that the law that we have passed, 2776, on automatic counting of pensions from social services for disabled pensioners is essential today. You don't have to chase them for help and run to social services. They're unprotected at the pension we gave them. They're unprotected under the minimum social standard we've set for them. Therefore, this law must be considered and adopted immediately. There are problems with the calorieity of the gas. At that high rate today, believe me, the gas is not responding. And we demand that they become public today, gas calorie counters, both at the Russian Federation's gas entrance to Ukraine and at the distribution point, on the distribution network. So we know what we're paying for, not for air, but for gas. Compare the calories of gas in any Western country you can go to — Poland, Slovakia, Hungary. You will be able to harvest this liter of water much faster than in Ukrainian territory. So what are we paying for? What are our people paying for? So, dear colleagues, I urge you to activate our work today to bring the tariffs into line so that the community knows that we are really and really protecting them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u153	Dennis Silanyev, Radical Party faction. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! It's almost two weeks before summer. For many, this is a traditional reason to start a recovery season, especially for our children. But this year the situation is due to unprofessional government decisions, unfortunately, close to catastrophic ones. Total funding for child health is cancelled at the expense of the Social Insurance Fund. There is no alternative mechanism. This means that more than 250,000 Ukrainian children will remain on asphalt this summer. What's going to happen is we can all figure out very well why he can teach the streets of our children and our teenagers -- smoking, alcohol, drugs, crime. And that's an inexhaustible list of the problems that we're making with such ridiculous solutions. And what's interesting about this is that we're going to spend a lot more money and a lot more money on these issues in the future. And I want to ask you, is this our reform? Is this what it's called an economy and an efficient budget spending? Let's move on. After cancelling the social security program, we automatically put hundreds of sanatorium companies that provided these services within the scope of survival. Yes, I agree that the quality of service in these facilities certainly needs to be improved. It's been a long time since the issue of restocking and modernizing these companies. But is this shock therapy a market incentive program for modernization? Throughout the civilized world, mechanisms are being developed to stimulate investment in resort and recreational facilities. And we're again inventing a Ukrainian bicycle. But what's interesting is, if you look at the situation more deeply, it's clear that the vast majority of the healing facilities are located in the recreational zone, there are thousands of acres of land, often on the banks of rivers, lakes, and the seashore. So you know, I get the idea that all these government decisions are completely random. I want to speak to the media. Please raise more frequently in the media, in the electronic media, and in the pages of printed publications the impact of the nation’s health on the state’s development indicators. We must realize that without a healthy and physically strong generation, we are unable to implement any reform. I and all the members of the Radical Party believe that the concept of national security and the defence of Ukraine is impossible without the health of the nation. And then a healthy nation is one of the most important ways of ensuring Ukraine’s state independence. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u154	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u155	I request that I consider the official deputy address of Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine to be an immediate requirement to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a children's health programme for 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u156	Thank you very much. People's MP Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u157	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Ukrainian people, today, it is worth saying that during the war in the back, there are actions that have been triggered by the misdemeanours of the former Party of Regions and the occupations, which, as the occupying agency, are aimed at destroying Ukrainian production for the destruction of agriculture and, unfortunately, even for the financing of terrorism. We're talking about our own Poltavian. If you look at it and look at it, the Ukrainian company's only milk conservatory, which produces baby food in Horol County, Poltava, belongs indirectly to an offshore firm, one of the main sponsors of the terrorists, Constantine Malafiev. And some government officials from Poltav district executives tried to interfere with the alienation process in favor of the state of the company and tried to help Malafiev from one offshore firm to another. Another fact. The regional disadvantage is managed by the Mirgorod region’s production plant, which also leads to bankruptcy for the purpose of privatization, with the aim of alienating land to peasants. The villagers simply groan there and speak repeatedly. Bankruptcy has been the result of the Visnik alcohol plant in the Horol region and the Czervonozadski alcohol plant in the Lochwitsk district. They're being deliberately cut into metal scraps right now. But the most interesting and most challenging situation is the so-called "Silian Traditions" company, which operates under Poltava, which belongs to a citizen of the Russian Federation, which is run by a citizen of the Russian Federation Tereshenko, who, by conspiring with Ukrainian citizens Grushewski, Raznik, Gavkovsky, is laundering the funds, and from there goes the entire furs to Donbas, to Donetsk, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u158	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u159	Those who actually feed the terrorists contribute to the terrorists. Most of all, it's money laundering, it's hiding money. Therefore, I would like you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Poltava region, the head of the Poltava County and the State Financial Inspectorate. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u160	Thank you very much. People's deputy Bublik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u161	Honorable Ukrainian People, Honourable Head, Honorable Colleagues, Jury Bubble, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 145 constituency. One of Maidan's slogans is perhaps the main slogan of Maidan, Ukraine without oligarchs. Unfortunately, at the end of the first stage of the dignity revolution, Ukraine continues to be governed by oligarchs, changing only some names to other names. And there's this beautiful saying of the Ukrainian people: the masters are fighting, the crotch is pounding. So far, there's an allocation of property for Ukraine instead of finally fighting the oligarchs. Billionaires, who are no longer in power, on the other hand — those who were the same oligarch yesterday, today beating themselves in the chest and calling themselves a fighter with injustice. As long as all concerned about the war in eastern Ukraine, officials are busy redistributing property. Every clerk in the rank above the head of the department is trying to tear himself apart quickly, the best of any factory, preferably metallurgical, while they're pounding at the forts of the bush. A simple teacher for utilities already has to pay twice as much as his entire salary, pensioners have to pay taxes, they take the last penny, they pay thousands of dollars for happiness. All you have to do is hear, and what you want is war! We don't have to be held idiots, war doesn't have to justify negligence, and often even the criminal acts that officials do in their personal interest, because our ATO boys will come back, the situation will stabilize, and we'll have to take responsibility for our actions sometime. In Poltavsk district, there's a large gas company called Naftogazravljanje that I'm not going to talk about who this second question belongs to, and it's important to me that today it can completely stop its work, because the Henprosecutor's Office has been harassing her. As a nationalist, I am concerned that in Ukraine more gas will have to be bought in Russia, a country of aggressors who kill our people. Therefore, all who contribute to this process can be likened to Russian associates. I don't want more than a thousand people on the street. Our Poltavšina can't get millions of bracelets that have been used to repair hospitals, kindergartens, schools. At a time when the budget is set aside for these purposes. Moreover, in the current 2015 social package, thanks to the leadership of the area, my intervention has expanded to 9 million dollars. On this point, I wrote a parliamentary request, and I hope it will be announced today. And I'm going to figure out who's interested in ruining this big company today, and I promise I'll fight for every job.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u162	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u163	And I'm going to fight for every job, every penny that goes to solve the problems of ordinary people. Today, we have hundreds of such examples. I call on the leaders of the country to finally stop doing subterfuge and to do things by using their high offices, and finally to make real reforms, and what people expect, and to improve people's lives. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, the national deputy of Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u165	Madam Vice Speaker, honourable MPs, distinguished viewers! On May 13, committee hearings were held to strengthen the role of Euroregions in cross - border cooperation. These hearings were attended by the heads of the district councils, representatives of ten, nearly ten Euroregions of Ukraine. They are people who are able to cope on their own today, not waiting for someone to help them from the center. But committee hearings are intended to bring together all those who today, at every stage of their lives, have the opportunity to implement all those European programs, and more so, to benefit from European funds. Unfortunately, we were faced with a situation where the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, ignored. I want to tell you that even today's state of affairs, the Ministry, representing a cross-border cooperation programme, European politics and neighbourhoods for 2014-2020, represents it on foreign missions and travels. There is something to come and report to local government officials, people who try to take care of cultural projects at such times, infrastructure projects, and do very important work without waiting for their help, do absolutely everything. We offered through our committee hearings to hear the regions, to hear the Euroregions, to hear the areas, and to return to them face-to-face. Today, there is a bill that is very important, 2787, which deals in part with cross-border cooperation. Lvivšina is an area that has received 27 of the forty projects proposed by the European Union. But the question is: Can it fully stand to use these funds? Even simple small small villages, such as the Old Sambor, can't finance a trans-border cooperation project that deals with road repairs, because this is where the state costs are needed. And in our view, in order for this to work and the committee has suggested its own cost issues, it is necessary to put these costs into the budget. Yes, they are very uncomfortable because they need to be used in a transparent way. Because they are completely accountable, they cannot be managed manually. And so clearly in a century, there has to be a region, an area and a specific project that needs to be implemented. And that's got to be in advance. We need to learn to benefit from what lies on the surface. I want to urge all ministries to understand that the deputies of the Supreme Council are representatives of the territorial communities that represent them here. And if you, Mr. Minister, Mr. Ministers, do not respond to those who call you and you have the opportunity to communicate directly with those people who do their job well on the spot, I think we'll give you an estimate for that. And there's no other method as software target for us to use these costs. So I would ask you to say that the new programme for 2016-2020 should necessarily be proposed because this is the only way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u166	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u167	The only way today is to improve the possibility of cross-border cooperation. Then we don't have uncontrolled borders, then we don't have delimitation zones, we'll have normal cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u168	Thank you. We're running out of time now. Last performance, Olga Cervakova, please. But I'm asking the MPs not to disagree, because at the request of the people's deputies, even though we've worked on "The Difference," we decided that it would be important for all of us together to decide what would be important to read questions that might lose their relevance by next week. I'll start reading the queries. And then the First Vice Speaker comes along. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the implementation of the law that we passed with you in February of this year regarding changes to the Law on the Protection of Social Morality. I want to remind you that this law has created preconditions for the elimination of the National Moral Expert Commission, which journalists, public activists and lawyers have sought for many years. On March 3, this law was signed by the President of Ukraine, and it became effective. Accordingly, the Transitional Provisions of the Law stated that the commission should be abolished for three months. So that means June 3rd. Now we have, thank God, May 15th. But there was no action in that direction. The Moral Commission continues to live. The Commission on Morals continues to absorb government funds despite the fact that there is no mention of it in the law and that it is outside the law at all, incomprehensible what it does. The Prime Minister has dismissed the head of the commission of Vasil Kosticsky. Yes, there was, indeed, his intercessor. But the question is, right after we passed the law, a government order was to be issued and an extermination commission was created. Today, we were informed orally from the government’s bed that such a decree already exists. But I've just checked that there's no such thing on the Web site. There is no decision or liquidation commission. I've seen the draft of this decision. It says a very strange thing. It says that the liquidation commission is to be established and its head is to report back in five months. I have a question for the government. Where does he take that term, five months when the law clearly says three? Two and a half of which have passed? So we have a situation where government money is spent on air and nothing. At a time when the government constantly assures us that we have to cut social costs, cut pension costs, cut other budget spending, and at the same time we spend money literally on structures that don't do anything. I also want to show you. Here, I have a stack of papers. This is my letter to the Moral Affairs Commission about how they hide their decisions. Their main form of activity was the meeting. And they have a decision to make public. They did it all once, violating the Public Information Act. I have an answer from the Security Service. Basil Kosticki, the head, referred to this as a matter of state security because they were considering these matters at the request of the Security Service. I have an answer from the Security Service. The fact that there is no regime-secret department in the National Expert Commission that should be created if there were any secret decisions. And the Security Service itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u170	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u171	She replied to NEC on moral issues that the Security Service did not see the grounds for prohibiting the placement of a decision by the National Commission on its official site, nor did it deny the copying and transfer of the decision to third parties. So we have a situation where the state structure systematically violated the law. The office of the Ombudsman on this subject has already violated the conduct. And I'd like to draw attention to this by the authorities who will be handling this commission's liquidation. I call on the Cabinet of Ministers to issue an extermination order as soon as possible and to stop breaking the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u172	Thank you very much. Let's go to. The "Variance" review is complete, let's move on to enquiries. The following questions came: From the National Deputy Victor Razwadowski to the Head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, the Head of the Žitomir Regional Council, the Head of the Žitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of part of the road "Stanišovka-Skomoroha" in the Gitomir region, the Žitomir Region. From Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of land particles (pai) to private property to residents of the village of Nova Chortoria in the province of Žitomir. From Vitali Stasuk to Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the investigation of the hooliganic activities involving the use of firearms that took place on the street of Gmir in the Darnitsky district of Kiev. From Anna Romanova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on visa liberalisation and the revitalization of Ukraine’s economic relations with developed countries of the world. From Igor Vasyunika to the prosecutor of the Lviv district, the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region for the disposal of property in particular large-scale officials of the Private Shareholders Association of the Lviv Bus Plant. From Oleg Kuprienka to the head of the Johno-Frankow District Authority regarding the provision of information on the conduct of the tender. From André Pavelek to the prosecutor of the Mikolai district on the need for a full and comprehensive examination of the circumstances set out in Galina Colomichenko’s appeal to protect her constitutional right to housing. From Mary Ionova to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding violations of the mandatory screening of newborns for inborn diseases. From Tetjana Crnoval to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Victor Bondik, director of Ukrichmtransamaku. From Igor Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the signs of criminal offences in the activities of a municipal enterprise related to the requirements of environmental protection, land and other legislation. From Igor Artushenko to the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye region, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service in Zaporozhye, the head of the Department of Internal Affairs in Zaporozhye region, on signs of corruption related to immovable property located in the St. Nicholas cemetery. From Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the provision of emergency medical care (tests, treatments, prosthetics and the establishment of a disability group) Vladislav Bugai is a child from a multi - child, low - living family in the village of Orvianitsa, in the province of Ravens. From Vladislav Buhareva to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to complete the construction of a district psychological dispenser in Suma. I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-15-m0.u173	You're done with Buharev, yes. With your permission, I'll read our questions more intensively. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in providing medicines to patients with transplanted organs. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the Ukrainian Ministry of Health with the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for initiating a review of legislation that identifies a list of specialized medical facilities that provide treatment for people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Vassil Petíkovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to address the consequences of an extraordinary situation that took place in the village of the city type Solotvino of Zakarpatsk Region. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of budgetary resources to the Zakartat region for the implementation of capital and current repairs to the highways of the country. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the urgent need for Ukraine's Ministry of Finance to agree on a bill to increase the cost of service to war veterans in medical and preventive establishments for medicine and nutrition. Irina Sisoyenko to the director of the Department of Health of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of vaccine health facilities, the implementation of the Population Vaccine Plan approved by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for bringing legislation into line with the registration of land rations leases and the payment of fixed agricultural taxes. Vasil Gulyev to the head of the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations in connection with the financing of the shore-building work in the area of individual housing on the street of Primorska and the apartment building of the area No. 9 of the city of Ilíšiv, Odessa. Vitalia Stasuka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the introduction of live tissue electrolyte technology for the treatment of injured persons in the course of an anti-terrorist operation. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal sale of a socio-cultural object in the city of Berdichov of the Žitomir Region - the Sports Hall of the State Progress factory during the privatization and the need for its return to community property. Sergey Kiral to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of being the head of the State Aviation Service, Antonjuk Denis Yuriovich. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the requirements of the Hmeljničina citizens regarding the restoration of the railway movement towards Gustin-Grodok-Yarmolinzi-Hmmelnicki-Kyiv. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to intervene in the situation surrounding the illegal construction of the city of Kyiv. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the review of the Regulations of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 848 of October 21, 1995 concerning the establishment of actual residents in the residence space for the appointment and the receipt of the grant. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect the rights of citizens who need expensive medical treatment and urgent measures to ensure their treatment. Alexia Lensky, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Constitution to a safe environment for life and health, eliminating the environmental danger of an unauthorized garbage dump near Saltikov-Shedrin Street and crossing between the cemetery and the railway in Kirovograd. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the verification of the targeted use of funds, which are provided annually by the State budget of Ukraine and are allocated by international organizations for the construction of a new secure confination at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and for the continuous monitoring of the use of funds. Michael Gavriluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the seven-year criminal case No. 1-17/06. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnick district administration, the head of the Hmelnick district council on the payment of the prestigious allowance to teachers. Andrija Shinkovič to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Board of Directors, of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for conducting an objective investigation into the collapse of the portion of the clinic in Izaslavi Hmelnicki district. Sergey Labazuk to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the order of medical mobilization to the ATO. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kharkiv ODA, the head of the Kharkiv District Council to ensure the verification of the possible illegal sale of a children's education facility in the village of the Russian Pacific of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv and the restoration of its work in the shortest term. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of Kharkiv ODA, Kharkiv District Council on the use of urgent measures to complete the construction of the modern clinic for 600 visits to Dergachi region of Kharkiv. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the use of the Ministry of Health urgent measures to provide medical facilities in Kiev and Kiev with vaccines for the anti - tuberculosis immunization of young children. Leonidas Hamtsa and Hennadia Krivoschei to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of the Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement agencies and the making of illegal and unfounded decisions by judges Oksana Tsarevich, Viktor Kitsuk, Svetlana Volkova, Sergey Vuk and others in the Nina Moskalenko and Hanna Moskalenko case. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the suburban train of Sarna – Olewsk – Sarna and the renewal of the ticket register in the village of the Isle of Rokitniv district of Rivinsk. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in connection with the unsatisfying consideration of the MP's appeal to the head doctor of the State Institute of the Illilitian Swimming Hospital on Water Transport of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Kyiv ODA, Fastew City Council on the inadequate technical condition of sewage treatment facilities in the city of Festus Kyiv Region, for urgent measures to prevent pollution of the environment. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Kyiv ODA, the Skuri District State Administration of the Kyiv Region on the need for measures to ensure the free transfer to the property of residents of the village of Rud Skuri district of Kyiv district of land on which their dwellings were built. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for compensation to the injured ATO participant. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for a comprehensive inspection of the environmental situation of Uzin Kyiv region and surrounding villages. Igor Popov to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on violations of the protocol on corruption. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Lviv City Head for the provision of land for the new location of the Santa Barbara market in Lviv. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the status of the inactive premises of the Starocostinian garrison, which are owned by the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for information about the final beneficiary of legal persons and public officials. Bogdan Dubnević to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine on the recovery of children in 2015. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for accounting in the budget area. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the issuance of a certificate of participation in the hostilities of Shurub Evgen Mikolaiovich, a military officer of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the demobilization of the military forces of 41 battalions of territorial defence of the region of Chernigiv. Andrija Vadaturski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the management of the regional landscape park "Kinburn Hair" and the National Park "Bilobrzej Świoslava". Andrija Vadatursky to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the First Deputy Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Kazanka station and the New Bug train No.62\61 and train No.122 from the city of Mikolajeva. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the temporary suspension of the work of preschool institutions in the village of the village of the Dikank Dikanik district of Poltava. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the simplification of housing subsidies, on the acquisition of clumped gas, on solid and liquid fossil fuel by unworkable citizens. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for conducting an anonymous survey of students from higher education institutions in Ukraine with a view to detecting mass fraud among the teaching staff of these institutions and developing with law enforcement agencies appropriate measures to eradicate corruption in Ukraine's higher educational institutions and to bring criminal responsibility to bribe scientists. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for station equipment and mobile convoys of the Kyiv Metro, with modern - day video surveillance systems in connection with the threat of terrorist attacks and an increase in crime on the subway. John Melniczuk is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for Information on State Enterprises and Institutions, which were used by Brokbiznesbank stockholders during January-February 2014. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of prosthetic orthopedic products (ortopedic shoes) for children who have not reached the age of 18 and are not disabled. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on not getting a complete answer to the problems of many families who are now forced to leave their homes in connection with the events in Donbassa. Jury Wozniak under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for violating the rights of citizens to acquire property shares during the privatisation of the Public Shareholders Association "Shubkovsky Farms". Jury Wozniak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, head of the Revenna ODA for financing the construction of a public educational institution in the village of the rural type of Orgs of the Plain region of the Plain region, at the expense of the State Fund for Regional Building Development. Taras Batenka to the director of the Department of Health of the Lviv District State Administration for the verification of the state of medical care and the quality of the provision of free medical care to the inhabitants of Zoločovsk, Przemyslánski, Mikolaiwi region, and the city of the New Division of the Lviv region. Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Jurinec, and others) Total 31 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a separate budget programme for 2016-2017 for the completion of the renovation and restoration work of the National Academy of Ukrainian Drama Theatre Maria Zankovetskie, 100th anniversary of its establishment in 2017. Michaela Golovka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine on the state of implementation of the State budget of Ukraine and state debt status for January-April 2015. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil District State Administration, on the review of the appeal of parents of children who are studying at the Podvolocchid Public Education School I-III in the village of the town of Podvolocosskysk Podvolocosk district of Ternopil district. Hanni Hopko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate construction of gas stations on the north-eastern borders of Ukraine, as well as for the provision of reasonable calculations on the cost of construction of such stations. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for human resources in the field of public environmental policy. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take into account the results of the public procurement manual competition. Alexander Xenjuka to the head of the Hmelna District Council on the use of measures for the illegal construction of the exploration and exploitation well of mineral treatment water No. 1m, in violation of the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. Alexander Xenjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial response measures for illegal construction and use of the exploration and exploitation well of mineral treatment water No. 1m, in violation of the requirements of current legislation of Ukraine. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as head of the right - hand district office in Kiev, to increase the amount of funding for the installation of sports equipment on Kyoto Street, 5-9 in the right - hand district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the heads of the Kiev ODA on the verification of the legal basis for the conclusion of a contract between the Kyiv Metropolitan Communiqué and the Society with limited responsibility for the "European Sublease Corporation of Ukraine" for the provision of 5 million 690 000 coins and for the protection of the interests of the Kyiv community. Anton Herashchenka to the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the National Atomic Energy Company Energoate, Ukrennergo, Ukrennergo Public Shareholders Association Ukrtransgaz, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, State Enterprise of Material and Technical Equipment of Railway Transport of Ukraine, State Service of Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine, Public Shareholders Association of Crushing about receiving copies of audits, checks carried out by the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and participants in the ATO operation to grant the status of a member of the fighting force to the militia militia's volunteer troops of the special task of Tornado. Irina Souslowy to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of citizens – investors of the public shareholders association Starokiyivska Bank. Alexander Suprunenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for refusing to provide information on criminal conduct in violation of electoral legislation on January 22, 2015, in Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev on the verification of the illegal inaction of the personnel of the Darnicki District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and on the application of measures to prevent cases of disregarding citizens' appeals. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir ODA for the closure of the public education school in the village of Jara Baranov district of Žitomir district. Groups of People's Deputies (Semeniha, Markević) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct based on the signs of criminal offence provided for in section 4 of article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, by officials of TV "Amarant". Groups of National Deputies (Semenich, Markevich, Romanov) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to look for possible ways to cover the financial costs of the "Harkovi Children's Camp Romaška" for the energy services provided, resulting from the deployment of forced displaced persons from the ATO. Paul Rizanenka to the Brovarsky City Head for the publication of the general plan of the city of Brovary Alexander Dombrovski to the Society with limited responsibility for the non-admissibility of illegal claims against the family of the heroically murdered on 16 November 2014 in the exercise of military duty to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in the ATO zone of the military officer at 3008 Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Valeriyovich. Alexander Dombrovski to the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources, Head of the National Land Agency in the Vinnitsk Region. The head of the Vinnicki District State Administration of the Vinnitsky Region for the provision of support to the ATO participant in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas of Jury Kazimirovich, who is a military officer of the 3008 National Guard of Ukraine, by land on the basis of state and municipal property. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of schools of the villages of Bogcivka, Popovka of the Zvenigrad region of the Cherkas region. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the redistribution of excise taxes and the restoration of 2% tax to the general fund of district budgets. Groups of National Deputies (Krivoshei, Stasuka, Boyko) to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utility regulations, the Public Kyivenergo Shareholders' Association for the establishment of electricity tariffs and the definition of the tax standards for electricity consumption. The depth of Zagreb to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Board of Directors on the establishment of anti-State activities, the demolition of defence, the damage to the state in the aviation sector. Oleg Osuhovski is acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the return to the state ownership of the Public Shareholders Association of the Skrotelekom. Oleg Osuhovski to the PSC for the establishment of control by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the district prosecutors. Juriya Derevjanka to the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the provision of full and reliable information on the privatization of state property in 2014. Jury Devyanka to the PSC for information on the status of criminal investigations against Viktor Yanukovič and other representatives of his criminal regime, as well as the value of their property being properly arrested. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for granting permission to conduct training at the National Academy of the National Guard of Ukraine at the University of Kharkiv Air Force John Kožedub. Thus, fellow believers, we have now completed our working day as provided for by the Rules. I want to say that this week we have adopted a series of very important and responsible laws. It is very important that we were able to adopt in our second reading the War Status Act, which largely allows for the rapid and effective introduction of war situations as needed. A very important law, profoundly reformed by which we adopted the features of the exercise of property in a multi-family house. This is also a very significant and important reform that we have made. A number of laws relating to the fighters of an anti-terror operation, such as the continuation of the possibility of staying and retaining jobs during their involvement in an anti-terror operation. And we also passed a series of decrees on May 18 as a day of deportation and protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. These are important decisions. Next week we'll have a plenary too. We need to be able to prepare all the necessary bills for him. And, of course, I would like to welcome us all once again with the victory of Dniper, and to thank both the football players of Dniper, and especially their coach, Markevich, who instilled this victory in our fighters in an anti-terror operation. And we all welcome both Dnipro and wish them victory in the finals. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory! The morning session is closed. The beginning of the next meeting on Tuesday at 10 a.m. in the session hall. Thank you. Good-bye.
