ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u1	Good afternoon! Can you hear me? Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear journalists, honored guests! I want to let you know that the consultations are now continuing, and the session is now on for 12 hours. And I want to tell you something very important. I want to say -- I ask you not to comment on my words, but to listen to my message -- I want to tell my colleagues and friends and the brothers who are in this room. There are different positions in the room regarding the Constitution. And there is no one who can know the ultimate truth, which of them is finally the right one. Because the history of such conflicts had different solutions. There is no truth that anyone can say is final. But there is one truth that everyone here will agree with. There are brothers in the hall who stood together on Maidan; brothers who shared in the ATO. And I'm sure that the responsibilities that lie ahead of us are high enough to prevent, under any circumstances, the opposition between the people who shouldered our country from changing. We will not give comfort to the criminals of the Opposition Block, nor to Putin here, in the hall, to fight! At 12 o'clock we'll start the session. Everyone will have the opportunity to express his or her position. And everyone has the opportunity to vote, as indicated by his conviction, as indicated by his conscience. And I'm sure we all have a high sense of responsibility to the country, to each other. And our session will be held in a dignified and responsible manner, to which I urge everyone, my brothers and my colleagues in Parliament. At 12 o'clock. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the community, distinguished dear fellow members of the national MPs, distinguished audiences, honored invitations. Before we begin our session, I request a registration. Please insert your cards, we'll start our work. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[12:07:41]] Registered -320 Honorable fellow members of the national parliament today have registered 320 members of the national parliament. That means we can start our session. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear fellow national MPs, there was a tragic event among our meetings: our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Igor Jeremeyev, came out of life. He was 48 years old, he was a young enough man, 47 years old, he was young enough, our colleague, and he always looked intelligent enough, intelligent enough, experienced, educated enough, and, in principle, in every man, regardless of his political colors, he called for respect. Despite the fact that there may have been differences in political views, a young person has gone out of his life -- a great tragedy for his family, for his children, for his friends, for his family and loved ones, and for the Ukrainian Parliament. We can argue that we may have different thoughts, but when a person walks out of life, it is a tragedy. And I urge all fellow Ukrainian national deputies to honor the light of Igor Jeremeyev’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking your attention, because I think there's a situation that needs our discussion. And all the colleagues who are in Parliament's Hall can get the opportunity to express their position in more words than just "disgusting" and to express it professionally. No decision has been made in our country’s life. Today we face a historic decision that will allow us to make changes that have been the dream of many in our country. Here on this balcony are representatives of local governments, people who do business every day serve communities, deal with the daily problems of every Ukrainian citizen. In 24 years, we have not been able to make a system that is entirely in power of the Ukrainian people. I am convinced that these historic decisions, we have the opportunity to make today. In 24 years of independence, Ukraine has been built as a centralised, corrupt country in which man has always felt uncomfortable, in constant need, and today this historic decision that we can make is precisely 226 votes needed to give further movement to European change, to change the Constitution in part of the decentralization of power. Then we're going to have to make 300 votes. But we still have months of discussions that I'm sure whoever wants to hear will be proven to be European change. For the first time, respected friends, constitutional changes received a sign of the quality of the Venice Commission, the most authoritative structure. But we've seen that a lot of nonsense, a lot of lies today, is relying on to stop the process of decentralization of Ukraine. I realize that the oligarchs are not interested in this, and I realize that it's not the officials who are interested because it's about the official in our country who's turning his life around. And I would like as many as hundreds of people, millions of Ukrainians, to have everything going on with the citizen's interests. Here, there are a lot of people in this room who represent local self-government authorities, don't you think, in order to come to Parliament to give power to people? To avoid monopolizing political life only by the leaders of political parties. Dear friends! Our decision depends on what Ukraine will be like. I said it on television yesterday, and I'll tell you today, tough decisions aren't easy. What we must do today will forever stop the slavery of the Ukrainian people from his greatness as an official. The government will belong to the people, Ukraine will be an independent, sovereign, single, prosperous state. I'll just give you one figure, today the structure of our economy of acquisition of every Ukrainian, small and medium-sized business, the independent class is 12 to 14 percent. As in developed countries, the middle class also has a small business of 80 percent in economic structure. Maybe it's enough serving oligarchs, maybe we should start serving people today, and I'm pretty sure it's our job with you. Dear colleagues! Decentralisation itself is not a miracle that will happen today, and tomorrow we will have to sit and do nothing. For power, for local self-government, it is necessary to fight for the economy every day. Decentralization will create conditions in which each community will have its own finances, its own capabilities. People get tired of rocking broken roads, and every day you talk from this rostrum, people get tired of working till dawn and getting a penny, and people get tired of what officials assigned to Kiev do not do today. People are sick of corruption that needs to be dealt with poorly, and decentralization is a systematic contribution to our European development. Now I'm going to talk about the nonsense that is written, which is said to be present in this Constitution, it's about the characteristics of the status. Dear friends, there is no reference to special status in the Constitution of Ukraine. It's written in the Constitution of Ukraine if you can verify every word I say that the features of local self-government in certain areas, and I say this literally, Donetské and Lugansk areas are being carried out according to the law. For whom it is not clear that when Donbas is released, when troops and separatists are removed, we will need certain features to rebuild Donbas. And I'm sure everyone understands that. And we have no right to give in to false arguments, we have no right to stop decentralization for every reform and we have to fight with you for free, independent, unitary Ukraine, for the right of territorial communities to self-government to full power. And I think this is going to be one of the most important decisions in our Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u3	Dear fellow national MPs! We are initiating a day-to-day review of the draft Act (Registration No. 2217a) amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the decentralization of power. According to article 159 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the existence of a finding by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that the bill conforms to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In line with the Constitutional Court's conclusion and from 30.07.2015, which was given to you, Bill 2217a is recognized as meeting the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Before I invite you to the floor, in accordance with the Rules, the representative of President Stephen Ivanovich Kubiv, I would like to address the only colleagues. We have different political views, we have different views on reforms, but, dear fellows, I would like us to hold ourselves in our hands so that we can show true parliamentaryism throughout the country and not disrespect the national MPs for whom people vote, not show disrespect for the Ukrainian people here in this room. For every reform, we must fight, and I am convinced that we will never be ashamed of this reform. This is a real European reform. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the floor of the representative of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Mr. Stepan Ivanovich Kubeva? [[B in m in s a l in]] They'll all be out of place. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian people, dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today, as never before, Ukrainian society demands qualitative and effective changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine, which are designed to contribute to achieving the objective set out in the current Constitution, including the desire to develop, strengthen the democratic European social and legal state. Constitutional reform is the most important reform for our nation's existence. With a view to implementing the provisions, you are proposing a draft Ukrainian law amending the Constitution on the decentralization of power, registration number 2217a from 01.07.2015, approved by the Constitutional Commission on 26 June 2015 and submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an urgent matter. On July 16, 2015, the Supreme Council bill incorporated its decision into the agenda of the second session and referred it to the Constitutional Court for its conclusion that it conformed to the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. On July 30, 2015, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its conclusion, recognized the bill as satisfying the stated requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. The most important position of the bill is that, first, the central authorities transfer authority to the level of the community. The population will be recognized as the primary and, at the same time, as the main unit in the administration system of the country. The other one. The Institute of Heads of State Administrations is proposed to eliminate. This will enable district councils, executive committees as local self-government bodies to more effectively represent, implement the common interests of the district communities and the area. Third, a new Institute of Prefects is being introduced to oversee the observance of the Constitution, the laws of local self - government authorities in areas and areas. They will not manage the budget flows and financial resources of the local level, and they will usually perform supervisory functions. With regard to the occupied Donbas, the project only assumes the possibility of a specific order of execution — I repeat — of local self-government in the separate administrative and territorial units of Donetsk, Luhansk region, which will be determined by a separate law. At the same time, should we vote for constitutional changes in decentralization? Controversy over constitutional changes is more and more like a dialogue between the deaf and the mute. The reform of decentralization is seen as an attempt to conceal Putin's agreement on the special status of Donbass, a betrayal of Ukraine's interests in favour of external controllers trying to bring about changes to the Constitution during the actual state of war and without a referendum. Others say that reform will push the development of all parts of Ukraine, and Putin will be very unhappy if approved. We consider and refute the myths that are being discussed today regarding making decisions. DNR and LNR get special status. There's no change in the DNR or LNR status. It says, "The specificities of local self-government (underlining local self-government) in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk are defined by a separate law (section 15, paragraph 18). Only the city of Kiev, like the capital city of Ukraine, will have special status, as proposed changes. — Part 16 of article 92. The specificities of local self - government will not give the individual areas of Donbas undue authority, since self - government can only work within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. What particular features of local self - government are needed in the eastern regions? First of all, it is a guarantee of State control over compliance with the Constitution and the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a standard of common sense that will enable the State to be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] For a co-report from the place – honourable colleagues, today the performances will be from the place – the committee head, the profiler, Ruslan Knyazevich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! I would just like to remind you that on July 16th, by my decree number 622 the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the same time incorporated into the agenda of the session, an appropriate bill, tabled by the President as urgent by 2217, to amend the Constitution and sent it to give an appropriate conclusion on the conformity of 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Since Parliament has defined such a bill as urgent before the Constitutional Court, on 30 July the Constitutional Court adopted an appropriate decision and concluded that the draft amendments to the Constitution were compatible with 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. After the Constitutional Court had reached its conclusion, it was referred to Parliament by the Head of the Supreme Council for immediate consideration by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, the subject of which is the question of amending the Constitution. Our committee of 26 August, at its meeting, reviewed the stated conclusion of the Constitutional Court and reached the following. I would just like to say that the committee, in accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is authorized to give a legal assessment solely of the Constitutional Court's conclusion, not of the bill itself, as in the bill itself we have already given a concrete conclusion that it complies with the requirements of the relevant articles and the Rules even when the bill is being drafted for consideration on perhaps its inclusion in the agenda of the day session. As a result of the discussion, the committee, after examining the relevant conclusion of the Constitutional Court, noted the following. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded that the bill met the requirements of part one of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine, since the proposed amendments did not provide for the abolition or restriction of human rights and freedoms, or of a citizen, or for the elimination of independence or a violation of territorial integrity. At the time of the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, there is no military or extraordinary state in Ukraine, so this part of the bill does not conflict with the second part of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part of article 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court found that the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion of the year had not considered the bill and had not changed the provisions of the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine which were proposed to be amended during the term of its mandate. Therefore, in this part it meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, according to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (since July 30, 25), a bill amending the Constitution on the decentralization of power, which is proposed to amend paragraphs 29, 30 of the first article 85, paragraph 16 of the first part of article 92, part one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u7	Let me finish, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u8	30 seconds. parts of the first article 106, articles 118, 119, article 121, article 121, article 132, article 133, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144; parts of the first article 150, the title of chapter IX, as well as section XV, “Transitional positions”, meet the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part five of article 49 of the Supreme Council Regulation, the Supreme Council may consider the matter and decide on a previously approved bill, in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, provided that such a bill, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, meets the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And with regard to his position, the Constitutional Court made no warnings. So, taking into account what has been said, as well as the position of article 149, the Committee recommended to the Supreme Council, submitted by the President of Ukraine, as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution on the decentralization of power, number 2217a since 15 July 2015, to approve previously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a statement from the factions. Please, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Mr. Shuhevich of the Radical Party of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Today, we are faced with a choice — whether it is decentralisation or an increase in authoritarianism in Ukraine. Think about it! I'm not going to get too big on this, actually, on the so-called decentralization, you see this clearly, and the second, gentlemen, today we're told that we want a unitary state, a Ukrainian language as a national language, and at the same time they're demanding the implementation of the Minsk Agreements into our Constitution. What's that? First of all, we can't implement them into the Constitution, because the changes in the Constitution in terms of war, (and there are indeed conditions of war, we are fighting Russia!) You can't change the Constitution. And the others. Look what we're inputting. We don't have a special status here, no. But there's a special order of local self-government, so in Russian it's called "not in the forehead, so kiss." But they have, they have their militia, their courts, their prosecutors, their taxes, they determine what language they have, they have the right to have a special economic relationship with the neighboring areas of the Russian Federation. So listen, maybe they'll open embassies tomorrow? It's not decentralization, it's not a special order of self-government, it's a betrayal of Ukrainian national interests. And I want to say one more thing. We are nodded to Europe, and Europe, forgive me, as Czechoslovakia also sells us and gives us away in the 39th year. And we're told: Europe is helping us, Europe is trying for us. Look, you don't want to -- you don't want to, but by humiliating us, it's a humiliation of our dignity as a Ukrainian nation to dictate what our Constitution should be, and they're still excited about what we're being humiliated for. You don't want to, but you quote Lenin, who, in the 3rd year, said in an article in the memory of Baron Hayden that a slave who doesn't realize his slave status is just a slave; a slave who is aware of his slave status is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to speak to the Self-Help faction Oleg. I don't hear anything, so pay attention, please. Oleg Romanovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, out of the way. Out of the way. He's in charge. The chairman will give it to you. The chairman gives you a word from the place. Please. Please. Please take your seats. Please don't tear down the session. Please, please. I ask you to take your place. That's not right. That's not right. That's not right. Please! I beg you, Oleg Romanovich. I'm asking for a place. I'm asking you from the place to talk. Please. Oleg Beresuk. Turn on Oleg Berezuku's microphone from the spot, please. [[Noise Nodes]] Oleg Romanovich, please. Please. Please take a seat. Take a seat. Take a seat. Take a seat. Please speak. Dear colleagues! [[Noise Nodes]] Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u12	Three minutes. There has never been such a rape in this room. Constitution of Ukraine. Peace. Only peace with strong government, with a strong economy, with the strong will of the people to whom it belongs. But by no means is the betrayal of national interests and the betrayal of the Constitution. Minsk 1 and 2 were to be instruments of peace, but they became instruments of death. Look at this, a cardiogram of this death. Murder before and murder after. Murder before and murder after. This is how the dogs of Pavlova are trained, but this is not how they are trained by the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people. The power of government, the power to govern villages and cities is the power of the state. That's why, that's why! – the introduction of prefects who will abuse self-government is the destruction of the Ukrainian state. You, dear colleagues, are respected colleagues, many of you are more loyal to the prophet of Ukraine and call the poems of Shevchenka. Today, the French are honored. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, friends, the usurpers bring with them endlessly or choose times of sorrow to use panic in society and to enforce destructive laws that the people would never adopt in a peaceful state. The choice of moment to change the Constitution is one of the most reliable signs of distinguishing the work of the legislator from the work of the tyrant, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, the legislator of the constitutional process in the world. But I will conclude with the words of our prophet, "Ukraine has been taken to the very land." And before us today is the task of preserving it and developing it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u13	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, I'd like to finish for a moment, National Deputy Suhevich. I figured we weren't done. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u14	I just wanted to say a little more. That as Europe, by bullying us, by raping us, forces the Ukrainian people to accept the new Constitution, these changes, especially in the Putin peace of Donbas, and we admire how Europe helps us, we would like to quote Lenin. I will quote in the original language. This article is written in memory of Baron Hayden in 1903. "A slave who is unaware of his slavery is simply a slave. A slave conscious of his slavery and struggling with it is a revolutionary. A slave who is aware of his servitude and admires the goodness of his master is holop-ham."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u15	Please, the Opposition Block faction, Yuri Anatoliyovich Boyko, then the Fatherland faction, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. So let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u16	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, our faction will support the bill, because it believes that this bill opens the way for a peaceful settlement of the situation in Donbasa, which is what the entire people of Ukraine expect of us. We'll vote yes. And we expect that the next step will be the adoption of laws that are reflected in the Minsk Protocol, which will legally consolidate Ukraine's path to a diplomatic solution to the military conflict. We will vote for peace and development in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u17	The statement has been completed. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u18	Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear friends, today they want to start a process of change to the Constitution. Ukraine really has excellent models of its work on such documents, starting with the first Constitution of Philip Orlik, starting with documents that were adopted in the early years of Ukraine's independence, which is the first Constitution of Ukraine. We have beautiful traditions. But what we see in this room and society today does not unite us in the constitutional process of inspiration and belief in our country, nor does it unite us in the right and positive changes. Today, the Constitution, which must be adopted by the full consensus of the entire nation and the elite, is adopted in total disunity. Disunity in the Supreme Council, when the people who stood on the Maidan shout out to each other, "A shame!"the authorities of the moral nations who are speaking on the eve of today's session and who are talking about the betrayal of Ukraine. And so is the Constitutional Court, where those who gave the dictatorial powers to Yanukovich, vote in favour, and those who are the consciences of the Constitutional Court wrote a separate opinion that we were not even given in the Hall today. There is no reform, no establishment, no development, and no nation’s prosperity. We are told that this is the way to peace; we all want peace more than the preservation of our own lives. Is this the way to peace? The adoption of a law in this Hall on the special status of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, against which the Fatherland voted "against" after that "Ilovay Cauldron", the destruction of our better people of Ukraine, our elite. Second Minsk protocols, Debalcevo. Now we've been told that pass this Constitution on to the Constitutional Court and we'll have a peace expected, and we'll have a peace expected. But after that, we see statements by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the OSCE about the most aggressive actions since the beginning of the war. So we just have to, if we're delegated by the nation today to protect the country, we have to admit today, unfortunately, to our pain that it's not the way to peace and it's not the way to decentralization. Unfortunately, this is a diametrically different process that is misleading us, which is causing us to lose our territory. Is there any doubt in the geopolitical spheres that there is agreement to adopt this Constitution with Russia? There's no doubt. But look, public Russia claims to disagree with that, knowing that they're going to push us to accept it. That means we're captured in pieces, our bodies are torn apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u19	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u20	Because Putin doesn't even need Donbas, he needs a war in Ukraine, he needs destabilisation. We are told that after our non-vote, the EU and the United States will somehow look at us differently. Let them count Russian submarines in their neutral waters and count Russian drones, and Russian destroyers, and defend themselves with Ukraine. And so today, our task is to vote against, to bring peace talks back to the right path, which will give peace, not the illusion of peace. And as state people, we must follow, not the conjuncture, but the national interests in Ukraine and the establishment of peace, the cessation of war. I am convinced that today the "Fatherland" Party will do the right thing by voting against, therefore, the new negotiation process, the new negotiations on changes to the Constitution. And a righteous, effective, honest, effective way to peace. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u21	Please, Rebirth Group, Rebirth Party, Victor Bondar, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, there is no person in Ukraine today who doesn't dream of peace, definitely the Rebirth Party supports these, and we talk about this all the time from the beginning. Of course, there's a lot of talk about decentralization, a year we're talking about going into this process. Repeatedly from this rostrum I've been speaking, our party has been performing Rebirth, the party's representatives in areas that need to start decentralization to transfer real powers, real powers, real budgets, and ensure the transfer of real powers. We're talking about how decentralization is starting today, but we have a note on what form of decentralization is. We want the changes that have taken place to really transfer authority and to create a balance of power in places. So that prefects are not empowered as kings, that they can, that they can do, that they can do, that no one is accountable, and that no one is subject to balance. So we're going to look closely at these changes and study them and there's going to be a decentralization process going on, but we have to watch. What else do you need? And what we're talking about here is that the changes to the Constitution are an extremely important process. You can't just walk out of a shoelace in a covenant with today's political ambitions to make decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish. [[B in m in s a l in]] To make decisions that are unbalanced and unreasonable. So we demand and make a decision on the group that we are establishing a free vote within the faction, so that each of us can determine the fate of the country under which the Constitution will live, how will the relations of the local authorities with the local communities with the President of Ukraine and with the Supreme Council be formed? We are a party that always advocates that there be a maximum of powers in places, and we reaffirm that, and we're talking about what decentralization needs to be done, but we need to think twice. Second, what's bothering us? Why is decentralization a condition that these changes will take place in two years? Decentralisation is needed today, there is no time to postpone the transfer of authority -- many years of talk and nothing has been done. Therefore, we demand that our representatives be involved in the process of writing changes to the Constitution, that there be a real transfer of powers, that budgets actually go to places, that real local self-government gets the maximum of finance and the right to self-determination of its actual capabilities, and then we are ready to vote. Thank you and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u23	Thank you. Is the will of the people desirable? Please, Andrew Leonidovich, out of the place. Please, "The will of the people." Colleagues, let the people speak when the representatives of your faction spoke shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Borisovic, first of all, I would like to express my indignation directly to you on the subject of your absence at the funerals of our colleague on the Igor Jeremeev faction. I wanted to thank the representatives of those who sent their deputies and were, that is, the Láška Group and the BUT Group and the BPT. This is the first time in the history of Ukraine that a speaker was absent from a deputy's funerals. I don't know how difficult your classes have been. You'll probably explain to our group. Well, as for the decentralization issues and the noisy piranha you're talking about, it has nothing to do with decentralization. The heads of the environmental inspection also remain, the heads of law enforcement also remain, and the prefect remains, who will serve as “watcher”. But at the same time, it's better than the system that exists today. That is why we have decided to support this. But it has nothing to do with decentralization. Among other things, we would like to draw attention to those processes that take place in the regional councils on the so-called “culture” of communities. This is called money-free, when zero of one budget is added to zero of the second budget, and we are trying to further organize a reform process in the country. We support the changes in the Constitution this time, but we would like to point out that your position, including as Speaker of Parliament, is not the Speaker of Parliament, but the Speaker of the Coalition, who is meeting exclusively with the leaders of the coalition. The activities of the coalition are seen in the actions that take place behind you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, from the People's Front faction, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak is the leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We see what a heated discussion there is right now. But I'd like to go to my colleagues on a coalition basis. When we signed the Coalition Agreement, however, we spoke and stated what was the main thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a decentralisation of power. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard you! Excuse me! [[B in m in s a l in]] So I want to express my position on the People's Front faction. We're going to support this first-reading project, because this project is actually starting to decentralization. We see that fiscal decentralization is already working: more than 40 percent of local budgets are being implemented. We need to do administrative decentralization now. The first reading is 226 votes, and it takes 300 votes to adopt the amendments to the Constitution. And 300 heads in this room will be after we've adopted all the necessary bills to support this decentralization -- this is Ukraine's law on prefects, Ukraine's law on local executives, the new Ukrainian law on local self-government. The second important thesis is why we support these changes. This will allow our Western partners to press Russia to meet the three basic requirements of the Minsk Accords. First, it's the withdrawal, the cease-fire. Second, the withdrawal of all Russian Federation military forces from Ukraine. And the third most important is the restoration of the border in Ukraine. Only then will the Minsk Accords work. We're for peace on Donbass! That's why the People's Front faction will be supporting the first-reading project today, and 300 votes will appear in this room after the adoption of all the bill packages. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u27	Dear fellow national MPs! Welcome to the statement of the leader of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies. Oksana Zabrzeczko was wise to say that many of our members are still suffering from spinal Bolshevikism. The desire to silence a stranger’s point of view, the desire not to express itself, is a manifestation of such a multifaceted patriotic hack. In fact, decentralization, which is now in the order of the day, is meeting the main requirement of Maidan. We all stood there not for the change of the President, not for the change of the Supreme Council, but for the change of power, namely the transfer of powers, funds and the right to choose the leaders of the local communities. And today our faction is going to vote in favour, because it finally cancels the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, where a leader in Kiev appointed leaders and distributed funds for the areas. We have to bury the body of the U.S.R.R., no matter how violent it is, it's protected by stupid colleagues behind my back. Next. Prefects are said to be dictatorship. No, colleagues, decentralization without prefects is separatism. Thus, the prefects will follow the rule of law and will ensure that all decisions of local councils are in line with Ukrainian national interests and the Constitution. And it's not the President who's disbanding the council, and the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council have the right to do that. And that's much more democratic than it is today. Today they talk about betraying the Constitution, calling for its protection. But, colleagues, take the text of the Constitution, open it up on the 94th article. Today’s Constitution allows a simple majority to establish special status for all cities in Ukraine. So what are we fighting? What are we protecting? Is it possible for all Ukraine to make secessionist divided principalities, which since 1996 have been in the Constitution? What lines are you fighting against, colleagues? Protecting this position of the present Constitution means opening the way to a number of sovereigns that have already begun, unfortunately, Zaporozhye. This has to be stopped, repealed by voting in favour of the changes to the Constitution today. [[B in m in s a l in]] It is said that we cannot vote in favour of the Constitution during wartime. But it is said by those who do not know how to read or know how to think. It is clearly stated that changes in the Constitution will take effect two years later. This means that today we are preparing a new country that will be. [[B in m in s a l in]] by the new rules established by Maidan. And the last. When we started the war, I said on TV that it was very similar to the situation that. Croatia turned out to be. The Republic of Croatia stood bare, like our heroes, against the teeth of the armed Yugoslav army and they were forced to go to the special status of the Serbian country, 20 times voting for the special status of this separatist enclave, just in order for the sun to rise and one day the victorious army to free the whole country, and this sun will be in us if we're not furry. Those who today call for failure to support the Minsk Accords must answer a simple question. Can we stand up to Moscow on our own? No, it's not. Does anyone know better allies than the United States and the EU? No, it's not. And that's why we need to support the international anti-putin coalition by voting for the change of power and for the preservation of the international front to defend Ukraine, and we're going to do it without looking at the hawk and the stupidity of those who want to take 10 extra heads of silver in the local elections by blowing up the country. That won't happen, there's a reasonable majority in this room. We vote yes. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u29	Dear fellow national MPs, we have heard statements from the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament and the position of factions is quite clear. I think everyone in this situation has to be equal. In fact, you know, I have the impression that the changes to the Constitution proposed by the President, which have been approved by the professionals of constitutional law who have received a positive conclusion from the Venice Commission, which is the most authoritative body of the Council of Europe, is one thing. And some statements from this rostrum that say that it's not decentralization, that it's some special status, speak of a completely different document. I don't know who or how, but for the last 8 years of my life, I've been a Winnicki city head, I'm a representative of local self-government in my heart and in my mind, I know what decentralization is, and I know what central authority is for all the presidents, for all the prime ministers, for all the ministers who wanted to rule our Ukrainian land. I am convinced that the time has come when the full authority of local self - government will be fully appropriate. To local governments, when each community receives its taxes, its powers will be eliminated when various inspections are eliminated, which are a parasite against the background of Ukrainian society and the economy. That's what decentralization is all about. In the Constitution, which we are now looking at in the first reading as a basis, this is exactly the foundation on which the true European unitary and sovereign country will be built. I would never in my life allow myself to vote for any particular features of anyone's statute. And all we've just heard, unfortunately, is not true about status, about other issues that are extremely important. I want to confirm that every reform needs to be fought for, for every one of us. For every human right, we must fight. And I'm sure we'll win. We're going to create a real country, we're going to destroy an oligarchy clan that was created in 24 years. We will do our utmost to have a Ukrainian citizen, not an oligarch or someone else in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, some national MPs! You're both here 10 and 15 and 20 years. In your eyes, the usurpation of power was created. This reform is a real deusurpation, deoligarization. And this is the development of communities in Ukraine. And that means that it's a contribution to the development of every person in their education, to their health, to their jobs, to their wages, to their normal jobs and to their lighting, to their safety, and to many other things. Now for peace. We all want peace. And I believe that Ukraine will be an independent, sovereign, territorially whole state. And we have to do this to you. Everything else is nonsense, it's something that's not true. Therefore, honourable colleagues will be put to the vote today in accordance with article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 149 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote, but in three minutes, colleagues, draft Decree, registration number 21. 2217a/P1 on the previous approval of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the decentralization of power. I ask you to start voting, in three minutes please start voting on this proposal. Thank you, fellows of honor! Glory to Ukraine! We're gonna win! Ukraine is above all else! [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote, fellows of honor! Ready? Vote, Your Honor, the proposal that I have announced. Please vote, Your Honor. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2217a/P1) on the prior approval of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the decentralization of power is to be voted on as a whole. And I'm asking you to back me up. No member will be ashamed of these true European decisions. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Glory to Ukraine! Vote! [[13:00:10]] For 265 Decision taken. Glory to Ukraine! It's not betrayal, it's deligarchization, it's decentralization of power. And glory to everyone who has voted. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I declare closed the next session of the Supreme Council. I'm announcing a second session. First session of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow will be the opening of the second session of the eighth call. The third session of the eighth call. Glory be to Ukraine, dear friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-08-31-m0.u30	Glory to Ukraine!
