ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and take your seats. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the start of work. Today is an important day, and the maximum participation of deputies is important. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please prepare for registration. I would like to inform you that yesterday the Supreme Council ratified the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the United Arab Emirates Government on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access, and adopted three bills that provide for competitive selection of cultural leaders and contractual forms of work in this area. I think it's a serious enough step forward and a better arrangement for the transfer of hostels to property owned by territorial communities. Also, the huge problem that now applies directly to the residents of the hostels. Thus, a number of important ballots were secured yesterday. Dear colleagues! Today, we have determined that Thursday is the day of economics and deregulation. We have enough legislative initiatives to consider. And it's very important that we work as effectively as possible. Today it was suggested that from 12 to 12.30, because there are so many issues of the agenda, not to interrupt, and this proposal is right in view of the tasks that we are facing today. So please consult inside the factions. I will ask for the support of such an initiative, honourable colleagues, and I will be grateful for your understanding. Do not take a break from 12 to 12.30 because we have extremely many economic laws. In addition, honourable colleagues, today we will consider another issue related to the harmonisation of Ukraine’s legislation with the European Union on non-discrimination, which is a package, last, in fact, about obtaining our visa-free plan for the introduction of a visa-free regime, as well as the issue of gas rent. There was a committee meeting yesterday. There's a new committee decision and a new submission that we have with you today to consider properly, as we talked about on Tuesday. So, dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to focus on this job. An extremely responsible and important day too. And by the way, today we still have to consider, you remember, the question of the release of judges. So I expect that today we will work hard enough, focus on making the right decisions, not on political slogans or opposition. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:08:49]] 339 national deputies are registered in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. According to the tradition of the Supreme Council, I would like to welcome the nouns with their birthdays, our colleagues: the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Stožuk. Congratulations, dear fellow, on your birthday. And our colleague Paul Ungurian. Welcome. Two nouns next door. [[Applause]] Let us begin our work, fellow believers, on the subject of second reading. There is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. I invite him to my word. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u3	Congratulations, Mr. Head, honourable coalitions, distinguished factions: the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, Self-Help, other factions! Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for taking the decision to hold thematic days in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And for the first time, we've finally come to the point where we need to look at the package of legislation that deals with reforms in every particular area. And today, for the first time in a year, we have a so - called economic day. An economic day for the consideration of draft laws tabled by the government and the Ukrainian National Deputies, which aim at reforming several spheres. The first is antitrust and competitive legislation. So there are laws in Parliament that improve, first, the control of economic concentration. Second, they establish a clear accounting algorithm for fines. And third, the transparency and publicity of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine increase. One of the main problems with the Ukrainian economy is monopolies. Monopolies that have been created for two decades. Monopolies that prevent economic competition from developing. So the government is asking for support in a package of legislation to combat monopolies and transparent, and a hard investigation into any monopolies in the Ukrainian market. The second block is government property. And first of all, we anticipate the need for a transparent and effective mechanism for managing government property, namely government companies. Low state-owned companies remain a breadwinner and remain a corrupt element in the state-owned system. That is why the government proposes to adopt appropriate laws that allow for a radical change in the management of public property and the involvement of independent and foreign advisers and observers. We also call on Parliament to adopt the Transparency and Honest Privatization Act, which will make changes to legislation that will not allow Ukrainian oligarchs to buy 5 percent of low-cost shares, and then to dissuade foreign investors who are willing to invest in real jobs and buy at a high price, but who are not ready to fight against Ukrainian oligarchs who are not able to afford a foreign investor transparently and honestly to acquire suitable objects. That is why I am asking Parliament today to support amendments to the privatization legislation. And if these changes are accepted, the first major object to be sold in a transparent and honest manner is the Odessa Portal Plant, in a public contest. The next block that relates to the involvement of investments. There are three clusters of issues: stimulating public-private partnerships, secondly, this is expanding preferences for industrial parks, and thirdly, it's eliminating logging schemes. The fourth block is a reform of state control. We suggest we go back to the moratorium for a business check. And we're also proposing to create a single integrated automated system of government oversight to make it clear who's controlling who, and everyone could see the direct impact of government authorities on that kind of control. And we suggest that we increase the legal protection of business. The fourth, the last block, is a reduction in arbitrary documentation. The government proposes to revoke export and import licences for alcohol and tobacco products, and the government proposes to cancel 22 permits in the agro-industrial complex. Dear Mr. Head, I would like to thank you every day for your decision on economic day and ask the members of Parliament to actively support the bills proposed by the government and the bills supported by the government and introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u4	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate on your work. And please (registration 2102) draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. Please, the head of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk, on the rostrum, second reading. So according to the procedure, let's go over the table. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u5	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy prepared for you a draft law on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on transparency of the Antimonopoly Committee (registration No. 2102, dated 11.02). In 2015. The draft law proposes to introduce a procedure for public control of the Antimonopoly Committee. Overall, the amendments proposed in the bill provide an opportunity to ensure transparency and publicity in the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. At the same time, the interests of economic operators in protecting their commercial secrets are preserved. The bill also contributes to the realization of rights of access to public information. Dear colleagues, there were 26 amendments to the National Deputies to the second reading, and only 4 are not included. Therefore, I ask, Mr. Head, to put the bill to the vote and to adopt it as a second reading and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Reporter. But according to the Rules, I have to make every amendment that has been rejected. We'll ask you in the hall. So, colleagues, am I going to count the amendments that were rejected, or are they insisting? 9th, Dove. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 12th, Belkova. Don't insist. 18th, Belkova. Don't insist. Thus, the amendments that have been rejected do not insist on their voting in the hall and therefore we can put the vote on the bill in second reading and in general. I'm asking colleagues, honourable deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that there will be a vote now. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. I'm going to put the vote in first, then I'm going to put the vote in full. Thus, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency of the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (2102) is a signal vote. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please, 2102, emergency, vote. [[10:17:41]] For 229 Thank you. So we focused. Now there will be a second reading vote and in general. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (2102) in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, please vote in second reading and in general, 2102. Vote. [[10:18:28]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you for such an active, responsible job. The next day we have Bill 2431, this is the first reading. And there is a request that we consider the bill in a simplified way. Please, Your Honor, let's support the proposal for a reduced procedure, 2431. Please vote. [[10:19:09]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Poet Victoria Yuriyovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I want to thank the Ministry of Economics for this initiative -- to have a deregulation day in Parliament. It seems to me that this is very important because we can work harder with you on drafts when they are united with one goal. As far as Bill 2431 is concerned, it aims to introduce the Antimonopoly Committee's policy of determining the size of fines. You know, at the moment, we have legislation that only provides for the upper limit of fines and there are no rules, no order in which to calculate fines. Legislation does not even provide for mitigating and burdensome circumstances in determining fines for violations of economic competition legislation by the Antimonopal Committee. In the absence of such a regulation, it results in a mixed application of legislation and in practice we are aware of cases where millions of fines were imposed on individual offenders. At the time, for similar penalties, the Antimonopoly Committee imposed fines of 30,000 dollars. We, Ukraine, have undertaken to establish and implement appropriate methods to determine the principles of the calculation of penalties, such as the commitment made by the Association Agreement with the EU, and this is why the bill is aimed at overcoming the problem. I also want to thank all the national MPs -- the authors who have joined this initiative -- the MPs from Peter Poshenko's Block, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the Fatherland, and the non-fractional national MPs. I want to ask you to support this bill in the first reading and I think that this bill will promote transparency in the work of the Antimonopoly Committee and set a framework for the committee as its policy on definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u8	Thank you very much. I would like to invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy discussed on June 17 at its meeting the bill 2431, introduced by the People’s Chamber of Ptašnik and others. What are we talking about, dear friends? The Antimonopoly Committee applies fines, and the bill proposes to introduce a method of calculation. Is that okay? It's okay. Another thesis. The subject of the penalty will be entitled to seek the protection of his or her interests. Okay? It's okay. So the committee asks you, dear friends, to support the bill in the first reading on the basis, and we will take all your comments into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u10	Thank you. I'd like to invite the deputies to a discussion. And please sign in: two for, two against. Please. Halasuk Viktor Valeriyovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, of course, we support the transparent work of the Antimonopoly Committee, the clear regulation of the formulas behind which fines are applied, and in general this is a tool for demonopolizing the economy of Ukraine. But, fellow believers, do we today have an economic day when there are laws that are not related to the economy at first? Look at the following laws, you see what you've got here today. Whatever it is, it's even an increase in public administration expenditure, even the issue of material and technical security for the Department of State Security. Is that what economics is? He's here today, Prime Minister. We have a government here today. Or maybe we're going to go over some really economic laws that are aimed at creating jobs to attract investment? Will we imitate the work? We call it "economic day," and they push anything! And the question is, is it going to be time for economic issues? Who are we fishing for? Are we deceiving ourselves or the people of Ukraine? Whom do we disrespect? Do we not respect ourselves or the people of Ukraine? How much do you think you can do?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u12	Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u13	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Mr. Chairman-in-chief, I also want to support the previous speaker, because in the afternoon it would also be desirable to consider Law 2229, which all farmers who have been misapplied to Category 4, are now forced to defend their rights in the courts. We know that it is farmers who provide food security. It's about the bill. "Paternality" will support this bill, because we understand that it is now destroying our state, it is an oligopoly, and the more effective the Antimonopoly Committee will be, the better the consumer. The better they turn to the courts of agriculture and get positive decisions, the better they will have normal consumer conditions. That's why we're going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u14	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, there is indeed today a package of bills that are not decisive for the economic development of our society, our country. Perhaps the coalition and government see these bills as a means of improving economic life. With regard to the necessity and urgency of considering bills that reform the same sphere, unfortunately, the practice shows that what was adopted by the coalition under tax reform, decentralization of the budget, and even worse, the Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian business have found themselves. Hence, when considering these laws, there is no need to consider them at all. With regard to the substance of Bill 2431, I would like to point out that unfortunately, the drafters of the bill in the article imposed a rather dangerous rule that could lead to corruption. What exactly is meant? In fact, the concentration market may have abuse and wrongdoing, with appropriate penalties imposed on authorized authorities, such as the Antimonopoly Committee and its territorial authorities. Regrettably, the proposed bill of 2431, namely the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition, states that the Antimonopoly Committee and its territorial authorities may impose fines on a certain scale, as opposed to the wording that exists now that the fine is imposed in a mandatory manner. The rule is now that a fine may be imposed. The opposition block faction in this part thinks it's a pretty substantial corruption risk. He suggests that the bill be supported on the basis of correcting this inaccuracy, either intentional or reckless. But the specified position will have to be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u16	Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u17	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I disagree with the previous speaker who said that the work of the Antimonopoly Committee is not an important job. On the contrary, I believe that improving the work of the Antimonopoly Committee is one of the priorities, including the Ukrainian Parliament. Because markets like gas, energy, petroleum, retail, air transport, let's face it, these are completely monopolized markets in the state. And prices in these markets are far from market pricing. As I return to the substance of the bill, I believe that the bill must be adopted in the first reading, since every subject in business needs to understand the methodology of the accrual of fines, he must have the right to appeal to the court in order to charge or confirm this methodology. And like the previous bill, the bill seriously improves the work of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, while the MPs are still in the hall, I'll give you the word "Bird Victoria." And turn on the microphone, please. Deputies, let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, I wanted to comment on the statement by the distinguished representative of the Opposition Block, who said about the corruption risks that the bill imposes. I'm sure you weren't looking at the first edition, because the authors of the legislative initiative were presented with a revised version of the bill. And the standards you talked about were removed there. That's why they're not here. And I think your question might be off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u20	Thank you very much. So I'm going to set up an alarm first. Can we put it? Everyone's backing up, right? Signal, no signal? Then I'll put the alarm on first. Draft Law No. 2431 is based on the first reading of the signal vote. Please vote. [[10:30:24]] For 242 Thank you. Today the potential in the hall is high. We can go to the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Economic Competition concerning the determination by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine of the size of fines for violations of economic competition legislation No. 2431 on the basis of. Please vote for base 2431. Please. [[10:31:08]] For 267 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill with a wise decision. Next bill in the order of the day 2168a. And there is a request from the authors to consider a simplified procedure. I ask the room to support this responsible proposal. And I would like to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please, colleagues, we're voting. [[10:31:48]] For-163 Decision taken. I would like to invite you to the address of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ptajnik Victoria Yuriyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Bill 2168a will allow conditions to be created to reduce the unwarranted existing administrative pressure from the Antimonopoly Committee on Marketing Subjects while at the same time creating favourable conditions for improving the functioning of our investors in the Ukrainian market. This bill, first of all, aims to implement the Association Agreement with the EU. It is, moreover, one of the conditions for Ukraine to receive another tranche of macrofinancial assistance. He's also, we're with you, anchored in our coalition agreement. The bill proposes, above all, to increase the value of concentration and to relieve individual subjects of the need to approach the Antimonopoly Committee at all. Obviously, the data of the owners and their activities pose no threat to competition and should therefore not be regulated by the Antimonopoly Committee. The bill also proposes to establish a mechanism for formal consultations with the Antimonopoly Committee on Concentration. The mechanism will remove the corruption risk that previously existed on the Antimonopoly Committee when the committee gave informal consultations to one subject and did not communicate with other subjects by refusing them to concentrate. For the time being, this procedure will be official. In addition, the bill proposes a simplified procedure for obtaining concentration permits in cases where the impact on competition is uncertain. small. And so for this category of cases, we've proposed a 25-day deadline instead of a 45-day deadline for the Antimonopoly Committee. Given the relevance of this issue, I ask you to support this bill, to adopt it in the first reading, because it is real.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u22	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u23	It is a real deregulation aimed at meeting the requirements of the Association Agreement with the EU. It will allow you to improve the investment climate and reduce the pressure on the activities of the operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, 2168a. Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u25	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is submitted to Bill 2168a-1 as an alternative. The bill is an alternative to the draft Act on Protection of Economic Competition (to improve the effectiveness of the system of control over economic concentrations). Thus, this bill offers more advantages by establishing a more liberal order for the consideration of applications for concentration. The basic standards that we propose to improve are the two basic standards, which allow us to keep the market share indicators that affect the need to obtain a concentration permit. We think that this indicator is very important to determine the monopoly of concentration and is more important than the cost of asset and product performance. And the main thing that is proposed under this law is to set up more payments, pay for expenses related to the consideration of applications for concentration, which is proportional to the cost of claimants' assets and corresponds to the inflationary factors that have taken place in the economy since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. I think this bill is appropriate, and I ask the people's deputies to support what it will give, to improve economic competition for our businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u26	Please, the head of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, two bills of 2168 of the People's Deputies of Ptašnik and 2168a-1 of the People's Deputies of Gołka are before you. The committee has reviewed and studied the conclusions, and we have come to this decision, and we ask you to support it. As a basis for the first reading of the Law 2168 of the People's Deputy, Ptašnik. For the second reading, take up those standards of Mr. Golovk's bill that are not in the bill and work on a common quality document for the second reading. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the 2168th People’s Deputies Bill as a basis for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u28	Please, colleagues, two for, two for against, please sign up. Please, Igor Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The adoption of this bill, Bill 2168, is extremely important for the demonopolization and simplification of the application procedure for the Antimonopoly Committee. First of all, we raise the thresholds for turning to the Antimonopoly Committee for Small Ukrainian Companies and also for Transnational International Companies, which is an important indicator, because small companies that do not need and have no impact on concentration in Ukraine and on market monopolization will not be forced to apply to the Antimonopoly Committee. It is also a very important rule that today the applicant will also be able to obtain a prior consultation with the Antimonopoly Committee and this will be an official consultation rather than an official attempt to consult whether or not the applicant needs a decision from the Antimonopoly Committee. This law gives a significant advantage to our market. So I am very much asking for the support of MP 2168, which will also support the People's Front faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u31	People's Deputy Shapowalov, Will of the People, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u32	The People's will MPs support the adoption of the bill, because it actually contains a number of progressive changes that can better influence the business climate in Ukraine. We know that the need to change existing concentration control approaches is due to the need to implement the provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. However, the bill retains the control of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Concentrations, where only one party to the agreement is doing business in Ukraine. Such practices do not meet world standards. For example, if only a company, an object of acquisition, is active in Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee will actually exercise control over investments, which may create additional bureaucratic barriers to investment in Ukraine. We propose to finalize the bill so that it will indeed contribute to improving the efficiency of Ukraine's system of control over economic concentrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u33	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Opposition Block faction will undoubtedly support any legislative initiative aimed at improving the transparency of the concentration mechanism, making decisions on allowing concentration, attracting the appropriate financial responsibility of market participants who may have violated economic competition legislation. Of course, the bill does not take complex steps to improve the order of things, but in any case it goes a step further. In doing so, I would like to point out that the purpose of the legislative initiatives is to strike an appropriate balance between the interests of the state and the business. And it's no secret to anyone how populist the slogans of some politicians are, the engine of the national economy, the big business. You look at international practice. All transnational companies determine the place of one state or another in the system of work distribution: South Korea, United States, EU The countries in question have large transnational companies that, respectively, determine rating and authority, respectively, countries in the country. Instead, I would like to point out to the reverend author of the 2431 Bill, which I have made an appropriate replication on the basis of the materials I have been working on. If you have other materials that are not available on the website, you need to give them to Parliament in advance. I was guided by this information, which is in publicly available sources on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u35	Please, Valery Pisarenko, Rebirth Party. I'd like all the national deputies to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, really, these laws that we started with them change certain administrative procedures inside the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. But today, I think the Ukrainians are counting on Parliament's work to bring about concrete changes in the country. So today it is very good that we have this practice of working with the Cabinet of Ministers, and we have the day when we are considering purely economic bills. I would like to support the proposal of my colleague Victor Halasyuk, the head of the profile committee on what would be important today to change the way things are being handled and move away from looking at issues that are in no way related to the economy of the country in the first half of the day. So we could move those issues that are not related to economics to the afternoon, and in the morning we could look at the questions that the Prime Minister has been talking about today and the questions that have already been discussed by the MPs. We have a question about creating industrial parks in Ukraine, about reducing tax pressure on electric cars, we have a question about deregulation. Let's maybe take a look at that order of consideration so that we don't go to the judges' release issue right now, to increase the costs of State administration. Let's focus exclusively on economic issues. This is what people in Kharkiv and Lviv expect. So, Vladimir Borisovich, I wanted to propose that we still consider the possibility of changing the order of our work today. And as long as the Cabinet of Ministers is in the session room, working together on economic issues, even though we don't have systematic, serious bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Alona Shkrum, Fatherland is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u38	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, we really welcome this day of deregulation, such an initiative. But we simply demand that there be no laws under deregulation on this day that we will not vote for. Let's just respect each other and just put economic, really deregulation laws. Secondly, we support Bill 2168a, which really removes a large corruption component from the Antimonopoly Committee. But, colleagues, I remember that when a potential candidate for the head of the Antimonopoly Committee met with the deputies, he promised us the fastest possible reform of the Antimonopoly Committee, the transparency of its activities and promised us to start serious investigations in the Antimonopoly Committee on Monopolies in our country. We don't see it now. I'm talking to the government about where the bills from the head of the Antimonopoly Committee are? Where are the government bills for reforming the Antimonopoly Committee itself? Please, we're waiting for them, you have all the important things to do. And we will certainly support Bill 2168 as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'd like all the national deputies to come into the hall, take their jobs, concentrate. I am voting on a draft law (registration number 2168a), a draft law amending the Ukrainian Economic Competition Act to improve the effectiveness of the system of control over economic concentrations, based on the Committee's conclusion. Colleagues, take your seats, please concentrate. We vote 2168a as a base. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:46:54]] For 287 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, your attention: The draft Law 3442 has been introduced, the draft Act amending the Labour Code. In accordance with the ad hoc procedure (as regards non-discrimination), under the ad hoc procedure, I propose that we now proceed to its consideration for a decision. Please support this procedure. With the procedure of ad hoc inclusion in the agenda, returning to it and voting it now. Please vote. Please support, colleagues: ad hoc 3442, return, review and vote. Please vote. Vote. [[10:47:46]] For 223 Dear colleagues, please concentrate. I see, I see, I see. Please, this is the same proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please support all your colleagues. That's the same offer I'd like to support: ad hoc. Are you concentrating? Please concentrate. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:48:21]] For 217 Friends. Let's look at the factions. The card didn't vote? I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! I see the card didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, everyone, please concentrate. Colleagues, ad hoc inclusion in the agenda. Please support this proposal. Please support this proposal. Please support this proposal. Ready? Vote, colleagues, ad hoc, my proposal: getting into the agenda for making a decision. Please support this proposal, colleagues. [[10:49:28]] For 227 Thank you. And now there is a proposal without discussion in general, a draft law in general. Please vote. Friends, please support, colleagues, concentrate. Please, please vote, please support, please vote. The offer, please, colleagues, please support. [[10:49:56]] For the 220. Friends, I'm making another offer. Attention! I'm going to make another offer. In general, from the author's project without discussion, from the author's team, please support this proposal. 3442 in second reading and in general. Ready? Vote. I ask all factions to support, vote, please support, my friends. Vote, please. [[10:50:30.]] For 217 Dear fellow national MPs! Once again, my fellow countrymen, I appeal to all my fellow national deputies. First, calm down, concentrate, and consider the proposal 3442 in the second reading and in general, according to the proposal of the copyright team. Friends, please support and vote. Please vote. I see a card, I see it, I see it. Please vote. Let's focus, let's calm down. Vote 3442, please. [[10:51:22]] For 215 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs, once again for, I repeat my offer, my friends. One more time, one more time. Again, colleagues. Please, I ask my fellow national MPs to concentrate on voting for this important law. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] In the other one. Now, a minute, attention, you don't make noise! Wait a minute. Now there will be a proposal that, according to the ad hoc procedure, what we have spoken to you, we should vote on the second reading and on the whole the bill proposed by the copyright team without discussion. Understand? Is the offer understood? Colleagues, please support this proposal. Is everyone focused? Please vote. Keep it up, folks. Vote, fellows! [[10:53:03]] For 219 We are now divided into seven votes for the visa-free regime with Ukraine. with the European Union. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, calm down! Calm down, I said, calm down. Calm down. Colleagues, colleagues, 15 minutes is a break for consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. The consultations are over. In two minutes, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin. I'm asking the secretariat to report that I'm asking the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall to prepare for work. Please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Continued work will begin immediately with a vote. Please, in the hall. Dear colleagues, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. Please inform the members of the Supreme Council Secretariat that a vote will take place. And please take your jobs, please. Fellow members of the people's deputies, we come into the hall, heads of factions, I ask you to call the deputies in the hall and ask you to come into the hall. Please, Your Honor, come to the hall. We're getting ready to vote. Dear colleagues who are still in the towers, come into the hall, there will be a vote now. Please, I'm asking you to come into the hall. The job will begin in a minute, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, we're taking up jobs, we're preparing for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u41	Dear fellow countrymen, please take your seats! I'd like to say a few words about our further work, coming from the constructive position of the faction leaders. Can we take our positions as colleagues? Please come into the hall, take your seats, we'll continue our work. I wish I could. Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats! I'd like to ask you to concentrate. Your attention is required, colleagues. I need your attention, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I put to the vote the ad hos proposal to return to Law 3442, I would like to say a few words. You know, I think we have a lot of questions that we don't fully understand, and maybe someone is using it to substitute ideas. [[B in m in s a l in]] But it is very difficult to speak when someone else speaks in parallel. I'm asking for your attention! Dear fellow national deputies, before I return to. I'm going to propose a return to this Act, and I want to say a few absolutely important things. The first thing I'd like to start with is to read out the law on amending the existing Labour Code. And it's like, "No discrimination in the field of work -- in the sphere of work! - In particular, violations of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities, direct or indirect restrictions on the rights of workers depending on race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnic, social and foreign origin, age, state of health, disability, suspicion or presence of HIV-AIDS, family and property, family obligations, place of residence, association or other association of citizens, participation in a strike, appeal or purpose to the court or other bodies for the protection of their rights or to provide support to other employees in the protection of their rights by language or other signs unrelated to the nature of the work or condition of its exercise." The point is that if a person works with you, we have no right to discriminate against him. I want to emphasize once again that the fundamental values of any state are man and his rights. We stand with you for family values. And by no means, I hear some fairy tales saying that there might be some kind of same-sex marriage in Ukraine. Do not let God make this happen, and we will never support it. We've just spoken to the Prime Minister and obviously we need to uphold family values. And I think that there may be a special authority in government on family matters, family values. And we will prove to the whole world and to ourselves that we agree and are capable of fulfilling our obligations to the world and ready to be part of a civilized European world. This will enable 46 million to get a visa-free regime, travel normally, and Ukraine to confirm their commitment. Someone might say it's true or not, but the truth is, I just said it. So, dear friends, I'm making an ad hoc proposal to return to 3442 so that we can take a look at it and make a decision. I ask everyone to concentrate and vote in favour of this proposal, return to consideration and vote 3442 in accordance with the ad hoc procedure. Vote please, my friends. Vote. Can I have your back, please? Vote. [[11:41:14]] For 232 Thank you. Now, on the basis and in general, this draft law, I ask you to vote. On the basis of a total of 3,442. Vote. Vote. It's true on our side. [[11:41:33]] For 234 234! The law has been proclaimed, with which I welcome you all, fellow nationals! Let's move on. Thank you all for understanding. Once again, family values are fundamental to us, and there can be no same - sex shortages in Ukraine. This is my position and most of the MPs of the Ukrainian Parliament and parliamentarians. Thank you! Let's move on. Thank you all for understanding, colleagues! Dear fellow national deputies, we have. I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats, there's a vote now. Daily agenda: 3428, 3132, 3163, 3325, 3432. And after that vote, we're about to go to a gas rent vote. Please prepare for the vote. Please be asked to vote in the agenda. It's a day-to-day agenda. Please be supportive. And here we go: rent on gas. Please be supportive. Please. [[11:43:21]] For a hundred and There was no comprehensive offer. 3428 - inclusion in the agenda, 3428. Draft Law approving the President's decision to allow the armed forces of other states to participate in multinational education. Please support inclusion, 3428. Ready? Vote, enrollment in the agenda, please support. [[11:43:51]] For 262 Decision adopted, 262. 3132, draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the effectiveness of bankruptcy procedures). People's MP Ivanchuk. Please vote. 3132 inclusion in the agenda. [[11:44:15]] For 240 Decision taken. 3163, amending some of Ukraine’s bankruptcy laws. Government Bill 3163. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda of the day session, voting. [[11:44:41]] For 238. Next, dear colleagues. Governmental (3325) draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the functioning of the natural gas market. Integrating into the agenda of the day session, voting. [[11:45:17]] For 221 I didn't get the required number of votes. 3432, draft Law on Honoring Heroism and Sacrifice of the Heavenly 100th of Ziznevsky. Registered by the National Deputies. 3432, enrollment in the agenda. 3432, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:45:54]] For 278 Decision taken. Two hundred. Dear colleagues, we've included all matters of the agenda, thank you. Now we have another second reading according to our decision on Tuesday. Question, draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the cost of gas for the population. Appropriately, it's a gas rent, dear colleagues. It's a gas rent. Dear fellow national MPs, there is an offer by the authors to postpone consideration of this draft law for the next day. Let's move on. Is there no objection? Let's move on. Dear fellow national MPs, we now have a question about the dismissal of judges. Here's the deal. There's a proposal from 12 to 12.30 not to take a break. How do you see it? I was talking about not taking breaks. There's a lot of laws. I think we can go through everything today if we work together in a good way. Colleagues, please, have a proposal not to take a break from 12 to 12.30. Please be supportive. Both the release of judges and many economic issues so that we can work well. I'd like your support, colleagues. No breaks, 12-12. 30. Please vote, please support. Please hold, without interruption, 12-12. 30. [[11:47:24]] For 219 Colleagues, please concentrate. The proposal received 219 votes. I think there are reserves. Let's support, without a break from 12 to 12. 30. We also have farm laws, economic laws, the release of judges. Now, if we call it a break, given what it was, we're just going to lose a lot of things. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. Please support everyone. Please, we're working without a break from 12 to 12.30. Please support everyone. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:48:05]] For 229 Thank you, colleagues, for your decision. 229, decision taken. Dear colleagues, the question of the dismissal of judges. The head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knyazevich, please. The release of judges. We'll get through and move on. We have, by the way, laws and farming, support. And we have a law on residential services that we have to consider today, and metallurgy. There's something to work on, please. Come on, everybody, let's go now. Now there'll be normal system work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, in principle, we've already discussed this last time. We then ran out of votes. But let me remind you again of the situation surrounding the release of judges. You know that according to the Law on the Status of Judges and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, there are a number of reasons for Parliament's release from positions. This is the achievement of a maximum age of 65 years. Also, if there is reason to believe that the judges have breached an oath, the application for dismissal or resignation should the legal force of the arraignment of the arraignment be obtained. I would ask, Mr. Head, to begin by considering the ruling number 1756 concerning the release of judges for breach of oath, since this is provided for by the Rules. The fact is, according to the Rules, these judges were invited to the meetings of the Supreme Council no later than three days later. Of the six judges there are three judges in the guest bed. Because if they do, we are obliged to give them a word in order to provide certain explanations from the circumstances of the matter under consideration. At the same time, three of the other three judges, who are offered to be released for breach of oath, are not present for some reason. We have evidence that two of them are in the hospital right now, and one of them is on a mission somewhere. In view of these circumstances, again, to the Law on Rules, Mr. Head, we cannot consider matters without their participation. And we will have to re-initiate this issue at one of the next meetings of the Supreme Council. And only if they do not appear again in the meetings can we consider without their participation. Therefore, if there is no comment, allow me to begin consideration of the question of the release of judges in accordance with article 5, paragraph 5. Article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes that in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath to release judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Pirozhenka Alexandr Volodymirovich; Romania's District Court of the Suman district of Solon Nadia Mikhailnov; and the Darnicki District Court of Kiev, Kurenkova Evgenija Sergiyovich. I want to ask if there are any judges who have just been wiretaped to me at the Supreme Council meeting? Yes. Mr. Head, we have a procedure that provides that national MPs can ask the judges questions, and they give some explanation. Or, if they themselves consider it appropriate, they can express themselves in favor of or against the decision they make.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u43	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u44	Yes, they're ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u45	Is it? Please, please. Call me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u46	Pirozhenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please. Are there any questions before a judge in respectable colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u47	No questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u48	Please provide an explanation as to the nature of the conviction of the accused and the circumstances of the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u49	The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies! The basis for considering this submission is the decision I made in the role of judge at the Basilkow District Court in early 12th, 2012. At the end of 2012, I was transferred, more faithfully, by the Supreme Council to serve as Judge of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Court of Appeal. The reason for this submission was the offer of a member of the Kiwalov High Council for my release for breach of oath. On November 26, 2013, a decision was taken by the Supreme Council on my release. And then, as a member of the High Council, the Deputy Attorney General of Pshonka Gabrielukm was also introduced to the Single Register for this same fact information about my committing a crime. So far, so far, it's being investigated. Twice before the court, the indictment returned to both the first instance and the appeal body, as it did not meet the requirements. Well, in the annexation of Crimea, I never doubted staying in Crimea or returning to Ukraine for a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u51	Let me. I just want to explain. The point is that the previous composition of the High Council of Justice asked the Supreme Council about the dismissal of these judges for violating their oaths. And since you know we've had a change in the composition of the High Council, the justice is the second time, the first time it wasn't complete, but now it's effective, and the Supreme Council has repeatedly asked the High Council of Justice to check the facts given in the previous reference. And, literally, a week ago, the High Council of Justice re-sent documents to Parliament, sent them to the new warehouse. I just said it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u52	Please, is there a need for a question? Please, three minutes to ask. Sign up. And the article, there are questions. Now you're going to do it. Please comment on which one. Repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u53	Repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u54	It's a conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u55	It's a decision in a civil case. It's not a verdict, it's a civil decision. What's more, in the charge I've been made by the prosecution, is that there are no consequences for anyone in terms of cancelling my decision. This is in the materials of criminal conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u56	Thank you. Question, Anointed, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u57	The People's Front, Andrey Amazanov. Your Honor, would you please tell us a little bit more about what the High Council of Justice specifically accuses you of? What kind of violations, let us say, apply to you? And what do you think about that? Since you are not fully aware of what you are being accused of. I see no reason to vote now, because I am also a member and head of the Committee on the Liberation and Arrest of Judges. I haven't seen that question, I don't know, actually, your situation. But unfortunately, there are now such practices when they are very imperfectly prepared and the submission of the Superior Council of Justice, and in fact they are being investigated in very indiscreetly criminal cases against judges. So I'd like to hear from you in detail what you're specifically accused of, and then Parliament will be able to make the right, quality decision so that we don't release those judges who are innocent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u59	That's who stayed. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u60	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u61	I'm pointing out to you that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice is not authorized to consider the issue of the dismissal of judges. So this question wasn't the subject of discussion in our committee, because according to the law, the application of the High Council of Justice is automatically brought into the session room, I remind you. Thus, such explanations can be given only by a judge, a committee not authorized instead to give explanations or to object.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u62	Please, Judge, once again, can you give me an answer? Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u63	May I have Mr. Chubarov's word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u64	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u65	Alexander Volodymyrovich, you're here, here, listen, please listen, then you'll be on lines. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please say aloud, at the time of the occupation, how many judges were in the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and how many of them were changed, betrayed, and moved to the side of the occupying party? And the other one. When did you actually leave Crimea or refuse to work in an appeal court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u66	I'd like that, colleague. One minute, Your Honor. Please, the first question was from the national deputy of Amazanova – about responsibility and the second question – from a colleague of Chubarov. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u67	More than 50 people worked in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Court of Appeal. Among them was a branch established in the city of Feodosius of the Court of Appeal, which had 12 employees. I know, only 12 of me left. By appeal. No, two, I'm sorry, two men. According to an appeal, from Simferopol, I only own information about a judge named Tresun Yuri Rostislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u68	Thank you. And as for your responsibility, you were asked very clearly. Specifically, what is the judgment of the court that is written there?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u69	It's not a verdict, it's a civil decision, it's a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u70	What kind of decision in a civil case? What's it about?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u71	Your Honor, I'm sorry, the question is, what exactly is it to you, exactly, what is the charge, the disciplinary, the High Council of Justice regarding you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u72	A violation of the rules of jurisdiction. A violation of the rules of jurisdiction. It was determined that I had violated the rules of jurisdiction, that is, the wrong case that was not in the jurisdiction of our court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u73	What was that about? What was that about?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u74	No, not about the ground. Apartments, apartments are a mortgage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u75	How many apartments?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u76	Three, I think, apartments. 2012, me. As stated in my indictment, there is an accusation of any loss to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Three more questions, colleagues, please: Pisarenko, then Paul Kishkar and then Oleg Lazko. Three questions per entry. Everything, and we go to the vote, we're still determined by the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I suggest we move on from a political discussion. Let the judge make it clear that if there was a violation of the rules of jurisdiction, these apartments must have been in another area, in another region, right? And you've made your decision. Was that so or not? Why do you claim to be a defendant? Where were these apartments, and what did you do with them? Have you made decisions regarding a second area where you had no right to consider or how?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u79	I'm sorry, the question. In Kiev. I was in Vasilkov at the time. I was in Vasilkov at the time, and the decision was made in 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u80	Colleagues, let's not. Listen, if a judge in Crimea is looking at flats in Kiev, then. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u81	Your Honor, a simple question. If you were a judge of the Basilk District Court, are you aware of the facts of any or all of the offences committed by the judges of the Basilk court, and are you prepared to write a statement against these judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u82	No, it's not. Well, I'm sorry. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u84	I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u85	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! We have a very unique case ahead of us. One judge who did not betray Ukraine did not betray an oath, went from Crimea to Ukraine, and we take him out. But the order should be given for not betraying the country. I suggest you take that question off at all. And such a judge should be an example for all the other judges who received money from Ukraine who received positions and betrayed the country when the time came to protect it. He, a son of the world’s land, did not betray his homeland, and that is why he deserves respect and support. We're not voting for the release!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I see the position of the next colleague. Everyone comes up and says we need to put this thing down, take it down again, carefully, and we'll take it out again. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u88	Please tell me a very simple question. Do you not consider a violation of one of the most important fundamental principles of the civil process of violating the rule of exclusive territorial jurisdiction, considering the recognition of property rights in Kiev as a judge of the Basilkov District Court of Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u89	It's set up, I can't comment, it's set up by a decision of an appeal institution that was cancelled, as well as by a decision of the High Council of Justice that indicates. Well, I was on those materials on the grounds that I was making decisions, well, I saw there that I could make them. There was a change in the case, a change in the plaintiff. Well, it's ambiguous.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, please. Victor Halasyuk, one more minute, and we're done. And let's go to the vote. Victor Krivenko. I'm sorry. Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, society expects us to take decisive steps to clean up the judiciary. Finally, in the order of the day of the Supreme Council, we came to the question of the responsibility of the judges. As colleagues rightly point out, we have the Inter-Igoria Zaporez court to consider, this is one of the most common manipulations and schemes -- how people took their property. And if we continue to cover, here's a specific fact that a particular crime is on the face. After that, for leaving Crimea, I offer to present the distinguished master, but he cannot be a judge. I suggest we put and take Ukraine from such a judge, because this is a terrible crime, a violation of territorial jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, look, there are two suggestions that we should vote with you. The first is about the release. If she doesn't get the votes, then we'll take it to the committee. Yeah? Ruslan Knyazevich, make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u93	It's just me. Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for a moment? Now I don't appreciate the decisions that the judge made. But just remember that famous period of raiding that flourished in Ukraine for this kind of decision. Remember what happened when we made decisions at one end of Ukraine about the factories that were in another, about the properties that were in place. It's the same logical line. But here's the thing: if we don't get a discharge decision right now, the judge stays in office. And us. We're not holding him responsible right now, we're not agreeing to arrest or arrest him, we're releasing him. Further, let him properly prove his righteousness in the judgment. No one discriminates against this person in any way. But going back to the High Council of Justice, which has already ruled three times against this judge, makes no sense, since it is forbidden by law. We should consider it until we release it or wash our hands accordingly, if you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I understand. Please take your seats. We will now vote. As I understand it, I was violated by this judge's fundamental principle of territoriality. Now, now, I want to tell you that every person who's left Crimea is a hero, I agree with that, but that can't relieve responsibility. Therefore, colleagues, there is an appropriate submission, there is the thought of colleagues as to what. I want to tell you, this judge just didn't convince me. So please identify each one by voting on it. Please, colleagues, it's about getting rid of this judge. Father’s name, please, and surname.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u95	Pirozhenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u96	As a judge of the Crimean Court, I examined the apartments. As a judge of the Vasilk court, Vasilkow Court of Justice considered it. Colleagues, have they prepared for the vote? We vote in favour of releasing the judge. We're voting for the release. Please take your seats, we vote. Please take your seats. Vote for release, please. [[12:07:05]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Next, please, judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u97	Salona Nadia Mikhailovna, Romanian District Court of Sumos.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u98	Please rephrase your proposal, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u99	Salona Nadia Mikhailovna, Romanian District Court of Sumos. Please explain the situation around you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, I've had a decision taken by the High Council of Justice to file an application for my release for violation of an oath of two facts. It's as if I asked the plaintiff to leave the application uncontested, that's the first fact. And it's like I was on May 31, 2012, which is three and a half years ago, and I was in an unsettling position. In these two facts. But all of these facts are explained, well, I disagree with them, I've given as the High Council of Justice, the Qualification Commission all the evidence that's provided by the legislation that's contradicting this fact and that they have now. But no one paid attention. Both a member of the High Qualifying Commission and a member of the High Council of Justice were not tested. All of these facts were based solely on those forged documents that I had a conflict with as the head of the Romanian District Court. On the basis of this, there was an act of service, an act of inspection that did not have jurisdiction and status of judges in line with the requirements of the Law on the Judiciary. And I don't really have any. When considering this question of the High Qualifying Commission in 2012, practically no one listened to me. I was immediately invited by the head of a qualified commission, or I would not like to write a resignation application. But I disagreed, and 3.5 years I want justice. Because I want to assure you, I didn't break my oath, I've been in this position for 13 years. From the very beginning, I began to work, leaving the secretary, and I did not change places. So please believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, three minutes of questions, colleagues. Sign up for questions. Anton Yatzenko. Pisarenko, Valerius Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, it's very good that you don't accept the accusations that you have. It's Michael's hope, isn't it? What else do you read about your accusations at your address? WCC found that such a May 2011 judge was in a position of alcohol drinking and was trying to get into a courtroom to deal with civil cases. Next fact. The unsuspecting situation is also confirmed by the written explanations given by your colleagues and others who worked there. Therefore, please tell us about both unscrupulous conditions and whether you are accused of being accused or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u103	Thank you. We're on our way. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u104	There was a question. I'm sorry, I didn't quite figure it out. It was so bad to hear questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u105	Clarification of the question Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u106	In addition to the allegations of certain decisions, the decision states that you have been in a position of drunkenness on several occasions, and that you have been in a position to do so by acting as a substitute for the head of the court, by your fellow judges. And this has happened repeatedly, judging by what you're being blamed for. So explain not only the court’s decision but also your conduct in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u107	I understand your question. I want to explain that these are false facts. I have reliable documents and medical records. On that day, I attended a doctor’s appointment, and by noon, I was looking into things, and I was at the doctor’s office. These are the manuals, and they are listed in a medical case that I have also provided to the High Council, a qualified committee, and my health is determined there. In addition, I was not offered to pass. If I had known that I would really be able to do this, I would not have been offered a medical examination or a refusal. In addition to the question, stay, and what these were written. Act, there was still an act about what I was doing, but it was a confirmed fact by the Suman District Court, because I was arraigning an order about what was admitted to pass this day. And there, directly, the judge's representative, the deputy chief of the court, explained that the actual act of being on that day, May 31, 2012 was not. So these documents were written much later. And they were falsified by these. Because there was pressure on these court officials who were directly subordinated. And these documents were neither taken nor corrected by what really is medical aid. This was not taken into account in the examination, nor were these facts examined. But on the basis of that, yes, we thought that, yes, that was the situation. But no one looked at the condition described in the medical records. The fact that I was in the hospital, after being hospitalized and all that, that. No, I didn't. What kind of documents can support explanations or documents, medical aids? Besides, it's a violation. How can it be said that a person was in such a state when no medical examination was carried out or even offered if I refused. Why didn't anyone offer me this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u108	Please stay on schedule, thank you. Please, the national deputy of Katsuba. You don't? Please, Baby. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! I think we're at some farce right now. We've got a Romany judge out there who's been drinking somewhere. Where are the judges who take millions of bribes?Oh, my God! Why aren't they here to be released?Oh, my God! Where are the judges involved in corruption?Oh, my God! Where, then, are the courts that carry out the political orders by imprisoning the political opponents of the regime? When are volunteers today, patriots in prisons more than in the days of Yanukovich? So the radical party faction's position is clear. A simple person in the courts of truth can't find anywhere! So everyone to the same judge in Ukraine needs to be released! All to the same judge and all to the same prosecutor! And get new people, new people who will build a truly independent judiciary to actually work for citizens! And today, when there is no money, when there is no mud, nothing in court can be found in the truth!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u110	Time's up. Two more shows. Germano Vasil Ivanovich and then National Deputy Lavrik. And we're risking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u111	Germany, Germany Vasil Ivanovich. He asked the previous judge, who had been tried here for no reason, to bring justice to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Lavric is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! I don't think the judge in his speech is sincere at all. It's my hometown, and I've been in it all my life. So I propose to vote for my release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, colleagues, concentrate. Please, Ruslan Knyazevich concludes and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u115	It's just me. Friends, how do we want to free judges if we don't even want to stand by the constitutional procedure and vote on the basis of such obvious facts? Should we alternatively offer the position of all of them before the award of the heroes of Ukraine to submit? Let's do it in some way. Let's somehow be consistent. If you really want to clean up the system, start with honest proven facts, and then we'll just start with the ones you're talking about. In that case, if we do not want to react properly even to such frank facts, Parliament is obliged to make changes to the Constitution and to deprive itself of the authority to elect and release judges. That'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u116	I'm good. Dear colleagues, let's prepare for the vote. We heard the position of national deputies and judges. We have heard the position of a national deputy from there who knows the situation from the place. Please, everyone, please concentrate and make a proposal for release.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u117	Salona Nadia Mikhailovna, Romanian District Court of Sumos.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u118	Please, in accordance with Ruslan Knazevitch's proposal for release, please vote. Ready to vote? Colleagues, please concentrate. Concentrate, please. Ready? Vote. [[12:17:35]] For the 220. People's deputies, the People's Front and the Peter Dust Block for. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Ruslan Petrovich, make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u119	Please support the application of the Supreme Council of Justice, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, of the exemption for violating the oath of the judge of the Romanian Interstate Court of the Somali Region of Thessaloniki, Nadia Mikhayln.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u120	I propose to return to this question and consider the proposal and support Ruslan Petrovich Knazević now. I'd like to vote in favour. We're voting for the release. [[12:18:27]] For 243 Decision taken. Next up, Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u121	Finally, I would like to support the proposal made by the High Council of Justice regarding the dismissal in connection with the violation of the oath by Judge Darnicki District Court of Kiev Kurenkova Eugene Sergiyovich. Please, Eugene Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u122	Applying full text of decisions in a timely fashion. After such an act, the Court of Appeal of Kyiv was not alone with me, according to four judges. And it was determined that the judge, apart from his work, sewed up, filed cases, made judgments, sewed up and handed them over to the office. If the commission is determined that the judge did not just his job but also his secretary and assistant to the judge, why did they not receive disciplinary responsibility in connection with this reference? This is noted in the appropriate reference work of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I also apply the recommendations of the European Court of Justice, which states that the maximum number of judges should be reduced rather than placed on them the duties of a secretary and a court assistant, a judge’s assistant. Do you understand? And I'm giving you this evidence. This was due to the fact that I was running a committee at the time for the protection of the work of the Darnicki court, which for the first time, was the only court destroyed by terrorists 11 years ago. And instead of improving working conditions, we have 15 people working in the basement today. Do you understand? So I don't agree with this submission, and I'm asking you to reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Three minutes to ask. Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u124	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. My dear fellow members of the national parliament, I apologize, each of us is talking about what needs to be done to reform the judicial system, which needs to be freed from the judges. Today we have an application from the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, so let's vote for it, if we're talking about an independent judicial system, that's one part of the question. And the second part of the question that, unfortunately today, we have lower-level judges standing before us, and we don't see the judges of the High Courts of Commerce, the Supreme Administrative Court, or just other courts making serious decisions. I want to point out that six months ago, I went to the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges for what was called Judge Meleshchenko, who made a decision in the city of Johno-Frankiv, which gave 8 hectares of land to a private entrepreneur in the green zone. So far, no decision has been made by this court. So next to these judges here, I think there should be other judges. And I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chizmar Yury.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, in connection with these matters that we are considering today, I would like to remind you that the Higher Council of Justice is not working today, but the Higher Qualification Commission. I spoke to them about the judge, the head of the Precinct District Court of Amarovic, who had beaten a man in a state of heavy drinking last year, presented himself to a judge and wanted to avoid this responsibility through a certificate. There's been a case in the D.A.'s office for two years, and no investigation has been completed. For six months, a man was hospitalized, went to work, and today began to judge people again, in the Percinian region, because of this huge social conflict. But neither the Higher Council of Justice nor the Committee, nor, accordingly, the Higher Qualifications Commission does not pay attention to this. So I'd like to take this as my appeal to these institutions by the people's deputy today, to put it in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u127	Please consider this an official request. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The cases of the judges we are currently considering are extremely small cases. There's no big fish here. And we know, and the law enforcement authorities know, but unfortunately, they don't lead to a logical conclusion. Thousands of judges in Ukraine who take bribes, who abuse the given powers, who carry out political orders. Therefore, the only real possibility of a real judicial reform. Not her imitation that we're seeing today. They brought in the shooter, because the case didn't get stitched up in time and, you see, the biggest criminal in the judicial system. In fact, the entire judicial system in Ukraine is criminal, all of which must be eliminated to the very ground. And a new one has been created, from new people who will not take bribes, who will not abuse, who will realize their responsibility to the Ukrainian people and to the oath. Therefore, I demand that the parliamentary majority adopt laws without delay and release everyone to the same judge in Ukraine is the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u129	Please, two last questions: Germano Vasil Ivanovich and Leonid Jemetz Let's go to the vote, invite the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, Germany, the Opposition Block. I want to tell you that, to date, our courts are looking at over 4 million cases. And working in the basements, in the emergency rooms of the courts, I want to ask one of my colleagues who is standing here waiting for a parliamentary sentence. Tell me, how many cases are you looking at every month? How many cases, in total, per month and how many per day does the judge deal with so that the parliamentarians know what the situation is in the courts?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u131	On the day, depending on the complexity of the case, between 4 and 15 cases. Including Friday, a short day. And they work in our basements. Come to Košitsa, 5a and look at the kazemeta. And that's why they don't pay attention to this evidence. And on behalf of the judges, I have original credentials for representation, construction of a new premises. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u132	Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u133	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. I'd just like to explain to the Ukrainians what's going on in Parliament right now: it's nonsense and propaganda. Believe me, the committee and the national deputies have no information on the cases of these judges that we are about to release or leave at work. That's the law. When it comes to logic, substance and justice, responsibility and decision must be made solely by the body and the structure that has the evidence and the circumstances of the matter. So first, I want everyone to understand, the Ukrainian Parliament doesn't have that information, and secondly, the Ukrainian Parliament, if it doesn't have that information, has to be deprived of that right to release or appoint judges. The body with the information has the right to have it, and it alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u134	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u135	First of all, with regard to information, all the materials were distributed to the national deputies on Tuesday, simply looking for this information in their material. The other one. Guys, what are you talking about? The point is, you know, the judge is making a so-called "short" decision that's handed down to the parties, and then he's making a full decision so that the parties can exercise their constitutional right to defend themselves in an appeal. 78 cases in this way will not be made available, accordingly full solutions, and people will not take advantage of their potential. This is a ridiculous violation of the Constitution. I honestly don't even know what to talk about here. And finally, there was a mockery from the Radical Party in favor of the committee. In order for the committee to work more effectively, I ask that the work of the committee, the committee, the work of Mr. Lozov’s committee secretary, which has never appeared before a meeting in six months. And that'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Colleagues, let's take your seats. Dear colleagues, we've heard all the positions, we've discussed everything, according to the Rules. Please take our seats, fellow members of the national parliament. Ruslan Knazevitch's offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u137	Please support the proposal made by the High Council of Justice, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine on the release of the oath of a judge, Judge Darnicki District Court of Kiev Kurenkova Evgena Sergiyovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u138	Please, colleagues, concentrate. I am voting on the proposal of the chairman of the committee for the discharge of the judge. Please vote. Offer: Release. Please vote. [[12:29:00]] For 222 222 people's deputies. There is a proposal for the head of the profile committee to return to the review and to adopt a decision on discharge. This proposal is put to the vote by the chairman of the Knyazević Committee on the dismissal of the judge. Please vote. Please be careful, fellow believers. [[12:29:35]] For 228 Decision adopted, 228 votes. Dear colleagues, we have returned to this vote. We are voting on the proposal to release the judge. All deputies, please remain seated. People's deputies please remain in their seats. Please vote for the release of the judge. Last, we vote in favour of releasing the judge, according to the committee's proposals. [[12:30:22]] For 232 The decision has been made. There's an offer by Sergey Vlastenka to go back to the judge we first considered and discussed for a return. Name, please, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u139	We were the first to consider Judge Kyivsky. Excuse me, the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Pirozenko Alexandr Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u140	Please, in order to return the matter to the judge, please vote. Return. I would like to vote in favour of your return to this court. To return to the question of the judge who was declared. [[12:31:10]] For 197 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Thank you. Let's move on. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u141	The next is Decree 3184. My friends, I read the judges I'm proposing to remove from this ruling last time. I will re-enact them for the transcript, in view of the fact that the Higher Council of Justice has asked us to appeal these judges, because that reason for their release, as stated in your documents, is a statement of its own desire, the Supreme Council of Justice said, cannot be applied in this case, since they have reason to believe that these judges are exercising justice in the so-called LNR and DNR. So this list of judges I would read again under the transcript if.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u142	Yes, the stenogram has been certified, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u143	Yes, it's the only place to remove Malienko Natalia Volodymyrna from that name. Yes, on another basis. If there is no need, then I would like to put to the vote each of the four judges who we propose to be released in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment of the court, namely: Kodim district court of the Odessa district of Příj Vasil Maksimovic; The Warlord City Court of Odessa, Marchenka, Sergio Mikolaiovich; Vovčany District Court of Kharkiv Region Božko Volodymyr Mikolayovich; and the Kakhov District Court of the Tarantsov Region of Herson Sergey Petrovich. The point is that these judges are now in places of deprivation, various sentences there: murder, rape, bribes. Therefore, we must vote separately in accordance with the law on their release, and all the rest of the judges on other grounds can be voted on by one vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u144	Please, the four judges in accordance with the manner in which they were heard, I will put the vote to the vote. First judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u145	Kodima District Court of Odessa Region
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u146	Dismissed in connection with the verdict of the court, please vote. Colleagues, concentrate, please. Release in connection with the judgment of a court of law [[12:33:15.]] For 245 The decision has been made. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u147	Thank you. The Warlord City Court of the Odessa District of Marchenko Sergey Mikolayovich
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u148	Please vote. [[12:33:38]] For 243
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u150	Please be careful, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u151	Vovčany District Court of Kharkiv Region Božko Volodymir Mikolajovic
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u152	In connection with the judgment of the court, the dismissal. Please vote. [[12:34:03]] For 248 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u153	Thank you. And finally, the Kakhov Regional Court of the Herson region of Tarantz Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u154	Release in connection with the court’s decision Please. Please vote. [[12:34:26]] For 248 The decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u155	All others, I ask by one vote to be released from other grounds that are not provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u156	In general, 3,184 would you like to vote, in general, with proposals that were made from the rostrum. Please vote. [[12:34:51]] For 245 The decision has been made. Actor's been approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u158	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. We have a number of decisions regarding the inclusion of committees. 3116, draft decree, colleague Irina Lucenko, joining the Committee on Issues. Oh, I'm sorry, Berezenka Sergio Ivanovich is a member of the Health Committee. Health Committee. Including 3116. Please vote. Integrating to the Health Committee, 3116 Please vote. The Health Committee, the constitutional duty of the National Deputy. [[12:35:41]] For 216 Fellows, once again, please concentrate. The question is that the Ukrainian national deputy has a constitutional right to work on the committee. I'm asking you to back this up. It does not need either a return or an inclusion in the order of the day. It's a human question. 3116, please. 3116, please vote. Please vote. Inclusion, health care. Do you support me? Please vote, 3116, to include Berezenka in the Committee on Health Care of the Ukrainian National MP. We still have 4 or 5 of these. Let's move on. Please, 3116, we vote in general. Please be supportive. [[12:36:38]] For 223 Once again, this proposal, 3116. But listen, for God's sake, a man has the right to work on a committee. Please vote. 3116, please. An offer has been made. [[12:37:07]] For 227 The decision has been made. Colleagues, I missed 3115, Irina Lucenko on the Committee on Questions: To elect Irina Lucenko as a member of the Committee on Tax, Customs, and to relieve her of her duties as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Support me, too, 3115. Vote please, colleagues. I'd like your support, Your Honor. And allow the people's deputies to work properly on the committees. [[12:37:51]] For 206 I see. 3115, membership of our colleague Irina Lucenko's committee. Please be supportive. [[12:38:20]] For the 220. Okay. Fellows, please hold consultations, and we'll come back to that. I'm so sure you don't. Please, there's a break proposal from two factions. It's a replacement for the show. Who will act? Julia Timoshenko or Laszko? Who will act? Three minutes, Easy, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u159	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! We went to this rostrum with one requirement. We demand that the parliamentary majority adopt an immediate law on the cancellation of the rent for gas production. Now this law has been removed from Parliament! I mean, you're here in the middle of the day, you're going on about what kind of adjustments you're going to make instead of protecting people's right to a decent life in a warm house! Instead of defending the right of people not to be beggars! It is the same discrimination when pensioners are not able to pay tariffs when young people are unemployed, when people of working age are unable to work! You're taking this law down, you're moving it for almost two weeks! And that means that people have a higher salary for rents, for utility bills. The faction of a radical party demands the parliamentary majority, and the government and the parliamentary majority have blocked the adoption of this law. Yesterday, on the committee, an amendment was made to the effect that the reduction in rent was carried over to 2016. This decision is irresponsible. This decision is immoral with regard to millions of Ukrainian citizens who today are unable to make ends meet, who are fearfully awaiting payment, and who are unable to pay for municipal services. Parliament is taking a decision and is moving this issue to almost two weeks. In the government district of the fourth week, there's a "tariff field" where people from all over the country are demanding decisions to lower the cost of utilities. And it's not just cancelling the rent on gas production, it's also eliminating Naftogazu, it's adopting a law that reveals the structure of tariffs, it's also a law for Ukrainian gas to go to housing and utilities. Today, gas is purchased abroad for $230, and Ukrainian citizens are sold for $330. Today, thousands of dollars worth of gas are being extracted from Ukraine, and thousands of dollars are being sold to Ukrainian citizens for 7 thousand and 200 dollars for a thousand cubes. I'm asking why all of Ukraine should pay for corruption, corruption in power, energy corruption, corruption that is greater than that of Yanukovic? The Radical Party faction therefore insists that the law on the cancellation of rent for the production of Ukrainian gas by domestic enterprises be brought to Parliament without delay and that the cost of housing services be reduced. Don't be irresponsible! Don't get into trouble until it's quiet!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, your consideration has been submitted to the bill's draft registration number - attention! - 3062. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property. Reported to Economics Minister Ivaras Abromavichus. There's a minister's proposal for a reduced procedure, right? Please, there is a proposal that requires 150 votes, consideration of 3062 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:42:54]] For-154 The decision has been made. Please, 154 votes. Please, Ivaras Abromavichus, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u161	The report invites the Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Abromavichus Ivaras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u162	Congratulations, Your Honor! You are being reviewed by a bill reforming the management of state-owned enterprises. State enterprises, as you know, have not been affected by the revolution or the war, they have also been able to raise money from the State budget and are a clear example of widespread corruption in our country. The reason for this is the inefficient management and opaque operation of public enterprises. Therefore, this bill proposes to establish monitoring boards in unitary public enterprises, to involve independent members in such monitoring boards for the monitoring of the individual. These are the standards that apply in all countries. They are created on the best principles of the organization USAID. And the expected thing, of course? That the corporate governance situation is going to improve in our enterprises. Corporate governance of public property is just as common a thing as cleaning teeth in the morning. Another equally important block of legislation is the accountability and transparency of public companies. I recall that the main causes of corruption in the public sector today are the results of the audits that are being carried out by unknown firms or the total disregard of this audit. Lack of financial reporting in many enterprises. Gospods just don't serve them, and we know what's going on with them. It is also very fashionable to trade only with intermediaries, selling their products at a low price and losing much of their profits. The bill therefore proposes mandatory audit of unitary companies, according to clear criteria, mandatory publicity and transparency, financial reports, audit reports, information on related persons, information on intermediaries. All information will be posted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u163	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u164	All information will be posted on the website of the State companies and the Ministry. Respectable People's Deputies, all the innovations of the bill have been developed in accordance with OECD, the International Monetary Fund, and this is in the government's programme of activities. Please support this initiative, which is essential to overcoming corruption in the public sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u165	Thank you. A co-reporter, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u166	Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee of Economic Policy at its meeting on September 16th, reviewed the bill 3062, submitted by the government, and decided to recommend that Parliament accept it as a basis for the first reading. But I'm looking around the hall, Mr. Chairman, if we don't set up a place to vote in the buffet and in the dining room, we won't be able to pass any more laws in Ukraine. So I'm asking you to warn everyone to come to the hall. This is the second time we've voted on this law, it's very important. Please invite our deputies to the hall. The "fatherland" is here, they're having lunch from 2 to 4 and I can't help but notice. Invite MPs, because we are about to break down a very important government law again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u167	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Please record. Olena Kondratjuk, speaking to Sergey Soboljev. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u168	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Our faction has carefully considered this bill, and we think it's a unique thing to solve three key issues. First of all, what we always do with you is our annual audit of state companies. But that's not enough. The second thing this law imposes is public information. If not through the courts, but through public information, which is confirmed by the honourable minister who is posted on the government portal about how this audit ended. Thirdly, the governance structure of state-owned companies is changing, where there is a direct influence of the state, so that we don't get the situation as it did with a whole bunch of state-owned companies. That, in fact, they're state, and they're not ruled by the state. What warnings to this law? We believe that in this law, but this can be done on second reading, we need to immediately change the procedure by bringing it into line with the anticorruption package laws we have passed on the visa-free regime for so - called connected persons. We need to examine how many laws we have approved will correspond to the text of this law. Because corruption will also have a direct effect on the business activities of state companies, which are allegedly not directly owned by the public company. There are still a number of warnings, so with these warnings, our "Fatherland" faction, we think we can vote in the first reading, and before the second reading, these warnings should be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Ruslan Sidorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u171	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Self-Help faction will support this bill in the first reading, but with very serious warnings. We talked about this with the Ministry of Economics. And only when we take into account the warnings we're about to make and give us a second reading license, we support this bill in the final edition. What is it? First of all, the issue of setting up supervisory boards. The bill proposes a reference to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we insist that the order of establishment of the Supervisory Board, in which cases it will be created, be clearly prescribed by the relevant bill. Appropriately, this is a reference to who will form the management of the relevant state enterprises. This should be clearly prescribed at the level of the law. Friends, we need to understand clearly that if we transfer to the same authority, right under the State Enterprise Holding Fund, we need to prevent the possibility of monopolizing the management of such state-owned enterprises. And yet another very important point is the agreement with connected individuals about what has already been said. There is no responsibility in the bill if an interested person has failed to report and commit an act in accordance with such a state enterprise. So only in view of the positions I've called "self-help" will the bill be supported in second reading. Otherwise, this can lead to uncontrollable abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Nechayev Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u173	Please give the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u174	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the administration of public property has always been one of the main problems of our State, and we are well aware and aware that public property must be in sound hands and must be a clear management system for these facilities. We remember the moments when such things happened: the chair of the Director-General is privatized, the control of financial flows is controlled, and it seems to be nominally owned by the enterprise, but it is practically working for private persons or private corporations that privatize, gently speaking, this point of the Director. It is clear that this must be combated, it is clear that order is needed here and it is clear that State ownership must work for the benefit of the State. But this bill, let's look at the logic, I can't quite understand it, and on the committee, we've been looking at it, and I haven't understood the logic, and today. If we as a State today have full, 100 per cent control over the placement of personnel, control over the financial flows, we have the opportunity to remove those personnel, to set up, to control them, and so on, and so on, today, why do we give up such a 100 per cent frame management system and create a model. The question is, What is the purpose of this model? If we don't want to or we can't manage directly, and I think that the managers in this room understand that this is a direct management system, it's better than any model that we have today. Or this model is being created under some obscure pattern, where once again the same methods of deploying certain personnel can create shadow flows. A very serious problem therefore arises. If this, once again, is a state form of ownership, it should definitely work for the State. And today, the State has everything in place to deploy personnel and to manage its property. The proposed bill, I think it'll just strain the model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u175	Demczak Ruslan, Peter Dusty Block from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the law simply revolutionizes governance of state property and state enterprises. See, why do all financial and industrial holdings, commercial companies have management companies? They have come to this in a market way, and they realize that this is not just a management, this is a recruitment, it's a control of the quality of the work and the unification of one sector's work. There are now many examples of such management and the creation of such management companies in various parts of the world. I went on a visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan, and it's been working for a long time now for Samruk Casino, a company that runs state property. And this has had a much greater effect on the management of this property. And I think we need to support this bill. And at the meeting of the Peter Prashenko faction, it was also decided to support this bill. And I'd like to invite you to join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u177	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u178	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Well, with regard to this bill, it is certainly necessary to publish information on the financial reporting of the audit results, strict control by the board of supervisors of the state-owned enterprise in the interests of the state. But I don't want to say it. I mean, dear colleagues, let's face it: we have a day of economic development today in the Supreme Council, we are today. We're already having lunch, we've been looking at economic bills with you? What is it? And it's just a simulation, it's a misunderstanding of what's really bothering the manufacturer, who's worried about the entrepreneur, who's worried about the taxpayer. Even the order in which the bills stand. The contribution of state-owned enterprises to GDP is 10 percent and private 90 percent. So why don't we look at the first laws that we're going to see about investing, about stimulating exports, about creating jobs, and we're going to look at what someone's going through? And everyone looks at it calmly. The Minister of Economics looks at this calmly and does not deny that our day of economic development has turned into a simulation that is completely unrelated to the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, before giving the floor to the next speaker, I ask colleagues all to come into the hall. On this issue, the position of almost all factions is common, but it is necessary to enter the hall in order to participate in the vote. And now I give the word to Yuri Lewchenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u180	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'm just talking to the previous speaker: don't be surprised, we actually have the whole Parliament just doing the imitation all this time, so there's nothing to be surprised about. And as for this particular bill, well, this is what I call "positive butaphoria." These are positive things, but things that are essentially a bunch of things that actually aren't going to change much. Why? For example, in order to effectively change the principles of government management, it must be a responsibility, a specific responsibility for specific infringements. This bill does not specify what kind of damage is being done, i.e. when the responsible manager is injuring a state-owned enterprise, there is no legal responsibility for such damage, there is no specific feature of that responsibility. Well, for example, is he the head of a state-owned unitary enterprise, a member of his supervisory board, a manager of an enterprise that is the other side of such a right, that is, who did the damage. So these things aren't prescribed, so they're called positive but positive but real mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u181	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u182	There are no real mechanisms for implementing all these positive things in the bill. So, of course, we're going to vote on the first reading, but I still encourage the coalition to work properly on the second reading so that there are specific mechanisms that these positives are here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Prime Minister's closing statement. Please, one minute, and we'll come into the hall, national deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u184	Colleagues, this bill must be adopted. When we look at our working enterprises, the public, 1827, only 5 were audited internationally. We don't know much about them, unaudited reporting, it's a direct step towards falsifying what they want, I'll write it. That's why we have to take it. With regard to some of the missing standards. I propose to organize a group between the first and the second readings, to attract specialists from USAID and the World Bank, and to put everyone there. You'll never make it right. But we must accept and move in the right direction. 30 minutes ago, the Rowena District Court of Appeal reviewed the case of Ukraburština and Ukralymettalla. This time we've shown that bandits and raiders can still get the business back into state control, so we win, we put the business back in state control, and we have to keep moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u185	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. We've completed the discussion of this bill, but I'm going to put a signal vote first to make sure that there's enough potential in the room to make a decision. So I'm putting the bill 3062's signal vote on the basis of a signal vote. Who's in favour, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:00:12]] For 236 There's potential. Now we're going to the vote. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the administration of public property, number 3062, on the basis. Please vote. [[13:00:49]] For 244 Decision taken. I want a fruitful preparation for the second reading. Thank you, Minister, thank you, committee, for the quality work and preparation of the bill. Dear colleagues, we now have four bills that we have to make decisions that have already been discussed. Let me remind you: two of them are yesterday's important bills that relate to the support of our Crimean Tatar colleagues, our brothers, our fellow citizens, which are actually related to the Chernobyl tragedy. And I'm very much asking you to focus on those issues and prepare for the vote. Yes, I'll give the authors a minute to remind them of the essence of those bills so that we don't vote blindly, but we understand what we're voting about. But this will not be a discussion, for the discussion is over. This will only be a minute's information on the substance of the bill. So first, 2319a. He has already been discussed. I'm just giving Ivanchuk a minute to remind me of the essence of the bill. Then we'll discuss it again. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, let us know. Where's Andry Volodymyrovich gone? Bring Andrew Volodymyrovich to the rostrum, please. Dear colleagues, would you like to take a break for a discussion? We can go to the next one. Are you ready? Ready? Yes, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, say the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u186	Dear friends! Look at how big the agenda is. Let's not waste time. We've already discussed it completely, it's the first reading. To all the representatives of all factions, I promise professional work in preparation for the second reading. Please support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u187	Please, Sidorovich. From the rostrum? Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! A few words literally after this bill. Unfortunately, really, normal, transparent, quality privatization and Ukraine simply do not happen. And the process clearly needs to be launched. Yet the Self-Help faction has clearly expressed a number of fundamental things that the Ministry has agreed with in principle. We will insist that they be further developed. First. This refers to the criteria for determining counsellors and the position to be defined in the bill. These should be effective mechanisms to prevent Russian capital from being privatised, as well as the impossibility of selling after the privatisation of those assets that will be privatized to the Russian capital again. Only if we can secure these positions for the second reading will the Self-Help faction be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! With your permission, I'll bet you a vote. Please be prepared to enter the hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the clarification of certain provisions) No. 2319a with the proposal of a committee as a basis. May I have the signal vote on the ground? This is a vote, please. [[13:04:58]] For-183 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I feel that there are no votes, no potential for making a decision. So I'm not going from the signal to the stationary vote, but I'm going to the next issue of the agenda. 2495, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Health Expenditure. Chairman of the Committee, Ivan Ivanovich, please remind fellow MPs of the substance of the bill. Kulichenko Ivan. Please come to the rostrum and remind me for a moment of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that these changes do not apply to the substance of the Budget. They answer only by clarifying and enabling local councils to use their health funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u191	Thank you. So, are you ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please concentrate, take up jobs and I'll put the bill under discussion to the vote, but it's also a warning. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Health Expenditure (No. 2495) on the basis and overall, of the signal vote. Please vote. [[13:06:47]] For 229 This draft law was brought together. Welcome to the authors. And let's go to the vote. So I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Health Expenditure (number 2495) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:07:21]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Let's move on to the next one. It's not the law anymore, it's the decision. Draft decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. And a minute to remind us of the amendments that Michael the Prince sounded yesterday. A moment for the head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you unanimously to support the decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people in 1944, discussed yesterday, with the addition that I read from this rostrum yesterday, which states that the authorities of the Russian Federation, starting from the date of the beginning of the temporary occupation, are the policy of the Crimean Crimean Entocide. My complete complement was sounded yesterday. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u193	30 seconds, Andrew Lozova. 30 seconds from the rostrum, maybe? I'm asking for 30 seconds of national MPs. I'm asking for 30 seconds, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u194	[[Crimean Tatar speech]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u195	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, please unite, take up jobs, and vote in favour. I don't even put a signal on it, I'm sure the whole room supports this decision, which recognizes genocide against the Crimean Tatar people, which sets the day of memory. And I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people number 2493 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:10:23]] For 245 Decision taken. Welcome! And the last one we have is a ruling that was already discussed yesterday, and yesterday we agreed here in the voting room. This is a draft decree to honor participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident (number 1477). I give you my word, one minute, Mikoli Tomenka, to remind you of this decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we discussed this decision yesterday. I'm just going to give the only thesis because it's about what's going on, and whoever didn't hear my speech yesterday, I have to say it's not just about international information and things like that. This is also about the restoration of justice, which has been taken into several categories of Chernobyl since the adoption of the 2015 budget. So we're directing the government through this decision to prepare the budget, particularly after restoring a number of programs on health care, health care for cancer treatment, disability pensions, rehabilitation of housing programs. Here, colleagues from the People's Front said, we have a category of people in the same battalion who fought there, protected them, so they can't get a place to live for 30 years. That's why there's a social component here, a request to support us so that we don't miss the budget process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u197	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote a bill honoring the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident and the measures related to the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster (number 14770). At the request of the committee, the decision is to be taken as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, Your Honor, please vote. [[13:12:41]] For 264 Decision taken. Welcome to the decision-makers. Dear colleagues, I have a great request from our female colleagues that we put Bill 2229 under review right now. It's very short, it's non-conflict, all the factions support it. And Oksana Prodan made that request, and I am very much asking you to support that request. It guarantees that there will be a quick discussion. And I ask you to vote, he's in the afternoon just later. Two minutes, and we'll move on to the D.B.I. Andrew, we talked to Yuri Lucenk. Let's support Mrs. Oksana, who but to now consider the 2229 bill, please vote. Please support our colleague, this is a conflictless question. 2229 please consider now and with steel it for a vote. Please vote. Please vote, Oksana, vote. [[13:13:56]] For 213 The lady herself. Mrs. Oksana, I'll put it to the vote again, Mrs. Oksana. If I'm supported by the Hall, we'll ask that question. Once again, I am proposing to put the bill 2229 to the vote now, which is about a congregation and compulsory state pension insurance. Whoever supports this proposal, please support our colleague and please vote. 2229, please. [[13:14:41]] For 252 Thank you. Now I'm asking you to let me go through this with a reduced procedure. Please vote 2229 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. Support the simplified procedure. Please put to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, there's no shorter procedure. Excuse me! Dear colleagues, this is the second reading of the bill. I'm inviting you to the interview. I invite the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions Committee Drauk Sergey Ivanovich to report. Euseiovich, I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u198	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We ask you to support this bill with all of the committee's committee's regulations, because today all the farmers are in such a state of affairs. When they're leaving. When court cases go down, they're required to compensate for these. It's a mistake. Therefore, the request is for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, none, all the amendments were accepted. The bill is fully in line. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, all the amendments were taken into account. It's a fully-concluded, well-thought-out bill. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Assembly for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" (for clarifying and bringing the subject into line with taxation for payers who have chosen a simplified system of taxation), number 2229, second reading, and generally. Please vote, please support. Please. [[13:17:03]] For 267 Decision taken. Hello, Oxana Sold. We're out of order. But we did it by Parliament's permission, and that's why we did it in accordance with the Rules. And now we're going to probably the most important, not the second most important issue today, the most important thing we've been through, according to the agenda, is the draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation -- an extremely important systemic issue. And I ask everyone to be careful when considering it. And I invite you to the report, this is the second reading, the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Cosmiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u200	Dear Head. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, your point of view is to review a comparative table in the second reading of the bill (No. 2114) on the State Bureau of Investigation. A second reading from the Ukrainian national deputies received 83 suggestions and amendments. In total, there were 206 amendments and proposals, 120 proposals and amendments, 87 proposals rejected. In short, the State Bureau of Investigation plans to lay down the responsibility for investigating crimes that are now under investigation by prosecutors, namely, crimes committed by senior officials, government officials, judges, and law enforcement officials, except in cases where these crimes are attributed to the investigation of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine and military crimes. In this way, the prosecutor’s office will be definitively deprived of the function of pretrial investigation. As we considered the second reading at the committee meeting, there was a heated discussion of what it should be. That it must be for the authority that it should be its status, or for the central executive authority that carries out the law enforcement activity, or for the state law enforcement authority. Members of the committee tended to believe that this body should be in the system of central executive bodies. At the same time, we agreed that the appointment, and that's the main thing that served as a re-reading of the bill, is what the director of the D.B.I. is going to be. The appointment will take place after the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine as President of Ukraine. Therefore, under the transcript, part of the first article 10 of the draft, to be edited as follows: “The Director of the State Bureau of Investigation shall be appointed President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, in accordance with the submission of a competition commission for the appointment of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation; the First Deputy and Deputy Director of the State Bureau of Investigation shall be assigned to the post and shall be dismissed as Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the submission of a competitive commission in accordance with article 11 of this Act.” Please support such an offer. I want to say that I am now proposing to everyone in the second section of the 9 project to determine the number of employees of the State Bureau of Investigation. Dear colleagues, this is also very important, and this has also been defined by the committee, and there has been a compromise in relation to the number of investigators who are currently working in the prosecutor’s office and who have been working in the department of combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u201	Two more minutes, please. Turn on the microphone for the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u202	Chief Anti-Corruption Authorities. So I propose a part of the second article 9 to read: "The borderline number of the central apparatus and the territorial offices of the State Bureau of Investigation is one and a half thousand people." The committee includes Amendment 40, Captain Helena, which proposes to establish that the State Bureau of Investigation uses loud and unspoken, state - owned and out - of - office workers in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. I propose that the words "in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine" be replaced by the words "on the basis and in the order established by law", since the Criminal Procedure Code does not provide for this order, and the matter which has been violated is subject to the regulation of the Operational Investigation Act. Also an editorial in part one of the first part of article 7, which is called "Implementation of Powers of the State Bureau of Investigation", the words "have the right" to be deleted. Since under the Constitution of Ukraine the term "right" applies only to citizens or individuals, and the authorities of the State do not, unlike citizens, have the option of failing to exercise the statutory powers or exercising them in a manner other than the prescribed law. With regard to the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 10 October of this year, the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Implementation of the Recommendations of the European Union on the Implementation of Ukraine's Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine on clarifying the traceability of the judicial investigation bodies, which have been amended in article 216 of the Ukrainian CPC, is proposed to exclude the amendments to article 216 of the CPC and to comply accordingly with article 5 of this Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u203	One more minute, please. Let me finish it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u204	on the tasks of the State Bureau of Investigation, namely to delete paragraphs 1, 2, 3 of the first article of the project. In addition, in view of the adoption of the same day of Ukrainian legislation amending certain legislation relating to the activities of the National Police, numbers 3225 and 3387, the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act and the amendment of certain legislative acts relating to the activities of the National Police need to be corrected in accordance with the stated laws of a number of legislative acts that are listed in the final and transitional provisions of the draft, namely, the amendments to the laws of Ukraine on "Operational Search Activities", "For Public Service", "For Prior Incarceration", "For Security of Persons taking part in Criminal Justice", "For State Protection of Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities", "For Security of Ukraine", "For Telecommunications", "For Security of Banks and Banking". As far as the amendments or proposals taken into account are concerned, all the information is available and a comparable table to this bill. And then, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council committee is proposing this bill on the State Bureau of Investigation, a project that we have today, as we said before, first of all, is depriving the prosecution of all the powers that have been vested in us since the Soviet Union. This time. The other one. This bill brings us closer to Europe and makes Ukraine's law enforcement agencies more civilized and professional. So I now propose that we all adopt this law, the bill, as a law in general. And thank you, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u205	Thank you for the report. But we're going to go through all the repairs. We've fixed all your changes for the stenographer. So number two, National Deputy Lucenko doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, once again, I repeat that this is a second reading. And there was, remember, when we sent this bill for re-reading, there was a discussion -- who appointed the D.B.I. Director. After quite difficult, but they say positive negotiations and compromises between the President, the Prime Minister and Parliament, a decision has been taken which appoints the director of the Bureau of Investigation, the President of Ukraine, for the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine after the competitive commission, a dot. The border number of D.B.I. employees, the assignment is one and a half thousand, a dot. All right, no more amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u207	That's all right. Dear colleagues, so we've actually gone through all the amendments. But right now I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. It is one of the largest and most important reforms we have made in the law - enforcement system that has consumed much of the tension around the resonance issues that are going on today. And it is very important that we be able to be sufficiently disciplined when we consider this issue. So, colleagues, this is re-second reading. All the amendments were discussed. Those who gave rise to the discussion were discussed and made a joint compromise decision. We now have the opportunity to vote for an important reform. I ask you to prepare for the vote and enter the hall. First, I'm going to put up a vote. But I'm asking during the signal vote to take up jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation 2114 for adoption in second reading and in general. Signal vote. Please vote, take part in the signal vote. [[13:28:06]] For 233 Congratulations, fellows! Congratulations, fellows! Thus, the draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, number 2114, is put to the vote in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please support with the amendments made by Andrew Cosemyakin from the Supreme Council’s rostrum under the transcript. Please vote in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[13:28:47]] For 241 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellow Members. I welcome Parliament's decision to reform Ukraine's law enforcement system. Hello! So let's move on to the following issues of order of the day. We're working very well today. And that greatly adds hope and confidence. So the next draft of the law is defensive. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of a state defence order (number 2090a). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:29:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Abromavichus Ivaras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders is proposed for consideration, as developed under the Government's Programme of Action. The main innovations of the bill. Implementation of strategic defence planning and simplification of procurement procedures in a special period. Introduction of a state of emergency and period of anti-terrorist operation. The bill is proposed. The introduction of a system for the formation of basic State defence orders for a three-year period, which had never been established before. Clarifications of the definition of “State purchasers”. Expanding the list of defence items to other military equipment, which ensures the vitality and functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military units. Reduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft basic indicators of the State Defence Order up to one month from the date of entry into force of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the year in question. And the last. Procurement, supplies, works and services only on a defence order, with the exception of procurement, supply of goods, works and services during a special period of emergency during a terrorist operation. The definition by the Cabinet of Ministers of order of product pricing, which is also important, work and services of defence importance. The expected result of the bill is to simplify and speed up the process of establishing and implementing State defence orders, a clear definition of unit price rules for defence products. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u209	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee to pass the word to Winniku. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u210	Dear fellow national deputies, a dutiful law in a special period, at such a dangerous time for our country. I would like to point out that the original project was introduced by the government in 16.06. And before that, when we looked at it on the committee, there were a number of comments that we proposed with the Ministry of Economics and Trade to correct and finalize this bill in accordance with the requirements that today are considered for such a two-pronged budget document as a state defense order. Undoubtedly, a vital novelty is that today we can make strategic planning for three years if this law is duly drafted by Parliament. Because one year, which was foreseen in the law in force, it doesn't allow us to react effectively and develop our industrial defence complex. A very important novelty is that the project that we agreed on in the working group will include not only the procurement of weapons as such, but also the procurement of a range of medicines, a range of medical equipment, which in turn is also actually part of supporting the security of our Ukrainian army. Undoubtedly, until the second reading, all the work done by the working group will be incorporated at the committee level into the final text of the laws that we propose. The committee therefore decided today to ask Parliament to support the bill proposed by the government on a basis. And together with you, along with that working group protocol that we have, we will correct it and make it perfect in accordance with our current conditions in Ukraine. This is a brilliant document that will allow us to develop, on the one hand, a defence-industrial complex, on the other hand, successfully develop our Armed Forces and make an appropriate, adequate response to Russian aggression against our independence, against our sovereignty. territorial integrity. Please support everyone on the basis of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a responsible question: There is a need to discuss. Yes. Please sign in: two for, two for against, please. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u212	Please pass the word to Krivenko Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u213	Please, Krivenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank the Ministry of Economics for this bill. I spent more than 10 years in a defence and industrial complex, and every year we started out struggling to recommence a state defense order, then, sometime in the summer, it was finally approved, hands came up in the government and then started funding from the fall. Now we're implementing a normal practice of three-year planning, I believe it's just a first step and we're going to move on to three-year government budget planning. And in general, we have to overcome that terrible, shameful practice where the main document of a strategic state is the State Budget Act. This is an executive document that should come out of three, five, seven ten - year strategies. In the European Union, for example, the budget is seven years in fact. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and it is very important for our industrial defence complex. Now, according to the second bill that we voted today on supervisory councils at state-owned enterprises. We have with you today the only strategic document in the country that's left, that's how much we've destroyed the state's development planning, that's our coalition agreement with you. You and I have made it clear that it is necessary to essentially destroy an organizational legal form such as a state-owned enterprise that we don't need. All societies, even where the state will own 100 percent, must be stockholder societies. It is very important for us not to let this work be sabotaged by the government, as it is now, for it to begin at last. Because now we're taking and we're actually introducing individual elements from stock rights through the law, where we're introducing supervisory boards in state-owned companies. All companies, except those that will decide that they will remain grounded, such as the Monetary Court, those that will never be privatized, should all be stockholder societies. There is an audit committee, there is already an official in the board of directors, not under the table. There is normal reporting that is understandable to the world. And the government has to work on it day and night. Ten months, nothing's been done. Please support this bill, which is now in the agenda, and activate the implementation of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u215	Thank you. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-help. Please take the microphone and tell who you're giving the word to. Otherwise it doesn't work, I can't hear everyone. Please, Shepherd. Turn on the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u216	A shepherd. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u217	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. The self-help union will support this bill, because it's probably one of the few positive examples where the government is starting to systematize its own work. Last year's example, I want to remind you, when the budget was adopted just before New Year's, and in fact, the government has been developing a defense order for two months, coming out only at the end of February. After that, the RNA was confirmed. And it was only in April that purchases began. And as a result, it was only in June that the first purchases began to take place at our defence complex. Today, this bill tells us that the government has only one month after the approval of the budget figures in order to develop a defense order. This is the first moment. And as long as the Cabinet of Ministers approves the basic indicators, it is possible to start the procedure with appropriate further purchases. So this is just one of the positive examples when the government converts its work into a system of things. Thus, we are ready to support this initiative, and the committee is obliged to work on those warnings that have been made by previous deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u218	Thank you. Ivan Krulko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u219	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. It's absolutely correct and logical when the issue of state defense orders will be implemented on a system-based basis. What's more, we support budget planning in Ukraine not for one year, but for it to take place for at least a medium term, for a few years. It's November 12th. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that we have so far no budget for the Supreme Council for the following year. And that's what happens year after year when the adoption of the country's budget becomes a real test for Parliament, for the country when everything changes on the last night. Therefore, it is clear that the Ministry of Economics should be approached not only on the issue of state defence planning, but in principle that budgetary planning in Ukraine should take place for several years and that it could be systematically predicted what the state should do and what the relevant ministries should do in their direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u220	Thank you. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I didn't want to speak, but I remembered my work at the Ministry of Economics, at the Ministry of Finance. With regard to the defense order. We are well aware that the issue is the security of the country. It's not a simple question that we can discuss in a short way, because we have a good sense of how important it is to equip our army with appropriate technology. I want to draw your attention to the problem that has been going on since the Soviet Union's state plan. I'm going to ask a very simple question, with all due respect for the Ministry of Economics, what is the attitude of the Ministry of Economics to defence issues? It's not his authority. The Ministry of Defense has to form a defense order. These are the ones that have something to do with the army. I don't know if it'll be possible to fix the philosophy. I'm ready to support this bill. But will this philosophy be corrected? Because once again, if we want to have good technique, the order should not be done. No other department except the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u222	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk, turn on the microphone, and please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u223	The People's Will Group will support this bill. The defense order is very good, but is it included here, in this defense order, in the consequences of the Swat tragedy, is it already included? That's why it's only on the first reading, and then work on it. And the Ministry of Defense has to find the culprits, or the military prosecutor's office or the new body has to find the culprits who lost these weapons, the technology, they're billions, and they're human lives that have violated all the statutes and instructions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u224	Please, Paul Kishkar is a minute. And let's go to the vote. Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, I will also explain to Mr. Pinzenik why it is the Mine Economic Development that has to make strategically important decisions about the State Defense Order. Because not all defence companies are in the same structure, many companies that carry out state defence orders are in the custody of different ministries. But there is one warning: the strategy document for implementing POPs is not a budget. The State Industrial Development Programme, the State Reform and Industrial Development Programme, which does not exist, is a strategic document for the preparation of state defence procurement. To carry out the military doctrine, Ukraine’s security strategy requires these documents to be developed and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economic Development must work together to form the right state defence order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and proceed to the vote (the registration number of bill 2090a), on the issue of first reading as a basis. Please prepare for the vote. 2090a: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of state defence orders. On the ground, please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Vote, defense question. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:44:56]] For 238. The law was passed on as a basis. Dear colleagues of the National Deputies, draft Act (registration number 2449) amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Promote Capitalisation and Restructuring of Banks. Rumors from Ruslan Demczak. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. Short-term procedure. Please support me. [[13:45:33]] For-154 Decision taken. Please report. Four minutes. And from the committee, as far as I can tell. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, we are all used to banks getting out of the market, and here we have been compromised by the National Bank with the participation of commercial banks and have been able to create a bill that improves attitudes towards the banks of the National Bank and allows us not to introduce temporary administration and recognize them as insolvent by some of the indicators that they have produced, negative indicators, due to fighting, because of the annexation of Crimea and because of the devaluation of the course. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Financial Policy and Banking on 19 May 2015, a revised draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalisation and Restructuring (registration number 2449) was discussed as of 21.04.2015, submitted by members of the Committee. I mean, the authors of this law are practically all members of our committee. The bill gives the National Bank the right not to refer the bank to the criteria of problematic and insolvent if the size of the regulatory capital is reduced, the value of the eligibility standard, the adequacy of the regulatory capital, the current and short-term liquidity standards, the increase in the amount of negative classified assets to be assessed and the formation of a reserve in accordance with the national bank's regulatory acts, caused by an increase in the foreign exchange rate to the national currency of the country or the formation of reserves to compensate for possible costs for some active banking transactions. I would like to add immediately that the preferences proposed will only work if the bank implements the programs and capitalizes the restructuring plan, including the results of the diagnostic survey conducted in 2014 by the National Bank of Ukraine. But what I want to say is we're working on a second reading, because in the 14th year, only large banks were diagnosed, and in the 15th year, banks were diagnosed on the 2nd, 3rd, 4th group, so I think we're going to include more diagnostics this year. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 14.05, makes proposals to the bill and notes that it would be logical to obtain an appropriate expert opinion from the National Bank of Ukraine in order to make a balanced decision. National Bank of Ukraine by letter of its own (from 14.05 on. 15th year) reports support for the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by letter, supports the bill on the condition that the comments are taken into account. The Committee recommends, by its decisions, the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Investments for Capitalisation and Restructuring of Banks as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u228	Thank you. Please sign up: two pros is two opposites. Please, Oksana Jurinec. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u229	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I will not draw your attention to the technical terminology in this law. I'm going to give a brief summary of the essence of this law, because it's very simple. And there was really no need for first and second reading. What is the simplicity of this law? If the bank is a problem, i.e. the risk of bankruptcy, the drafters suggest that if these problems arise in connection with the devaluation of the national currency, they do not consider the bank to be a problem. In other words, they are the standards of bank liquidity or viability, the health of the bank, and they offer to calculate the rate of $7 in 99, at the rate that was in effect on February 6, 2004. Friends, since we're going to do these arithmetic manipulations, would you excuse me, the National Bank is going to be healthy? We have no right to do similar things to the banking sector. Since you've estimated the asset's currency by 8 dollars, it's not 8 dollars. Look at the market. In the market, not 8 bracelets, but 24 bracelets. I ask you not to support a bill that does not address the health of banks, but it still makes the health of banks visible. Please reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u230	Please. Sergei Kieral. I canceled the show. All right, well, respectable fellow national MPs. Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. Please enter all national deputies at the Supreme Council Hall. Please, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u231	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. What is this law really about? Now there are a few banks, and then unfortunately, the last time of the economic bad situation, there are a few banks that are actually insolvent, that actually have to go to state administration and people have to start paying at least the minimum ones that are guaranteed by the deposit guarantee fund. But these banks are artificially held because they are the property of the oligarchic groups and need to be kept for certain tools. And people, investors, don't even get a couple of copies that they're supposed to get. So this bill proposes to legitimize, basically, the liquidation of banks and allow the National Bank to have its own discretion to eliminate someone, not eliminate someone. Well, it's called who goes more, and whoever takes more to Nazbank's head, they'll listen. So this bill is completely wrong and does not promote the protection of rights, in fact, of people who have deposits in these banks. I urge you not to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u232	Dear fellow national MPs! We heard a discussion on this issue. Please, Paul Rizanenko. Paul Rizanenko, a minute, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u233	Dear colleagues! It is suggested that this bill be supported only in the first reading. Now, this bill, I might say something again, but it's very important to realize. Today, according to the law, Nazbank is obliged, if standards are not met, to declare the bank problematic and insolvent. He has no choice, that is his duty. Let us be objective. The financial system is such that 95 percent of banks today have to be declared insolvent. That's why Natzbank, in fact it's a Nazi law, and he suggested that he initiate it. I am saddened by this law, not by the fact that they are not insolvent, but by the fact that they are being redeemed by Nazbank according to their wishes. They want to -- they admit it, they want to -- they don't. If this rule is introduced temporarily, for a year and a half, then it shouldn't be a Nazibank choice. Then all banks that do not comply with the stated standards in this law should not be declared insolvent for a year or two of this pause given.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Complete, please, Paul Rizanenko. Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u235	Therefore, it is suggested that this bill be supported exclusively in the first reading, so that the second reading may not provide for the possibility of doing so in Nazbank. Either this applies to all banks temporarily or to no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, there is now a proposal to vote in a signal vote on this law on the basis. Please make a proposal to support the bill 2449. Draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring. A proposal for a signal vote based on a draft law, a colleague. Based on the base. Based on the base. Signal vote, please. [[13:55:12]] For 169 I didn't get the required number of votes, I mean, signal. He's discussed, we'll go back to that. And now, before the morning session is concluded, dear colleagues, I would like to make a proposal in accordance with the statement I received from our female deputies according to the incident that took place in the Ukrainian Parliament last week between National Deputy Teteruk and Alexander Volodymyr Kugel. The proposal made by fellow members of the National Deputies is to remove Andrija Teteruk for five plenary sessions from the Hall. the Chamber of Deputies. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now. Please identify your distinguished fellow members of the national MPs. Exclusion of 5 days by Andrija Teteruk from the Supreme Council of Ukraine Please. By protocol, we can do that. Please identify yourself as respected colleagues. [[13:56:32]] For 106 This proposal did not receive the required number of votes, fellow believers. It's 14 hours. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
