ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Heads of factions, please mobilize deputies to begin our work. Dear colleagues, in one minute we will begin our work. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please take your seats, we're starting our work. Please register with the National Deputies. Registered -310 315 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is open. Dear fellow national MPs, today we have a colleague who celebrates his birthday, namely Leonid Petrovich Kozachenko. Is he in the hall? Let's welcome Leonid Petrovich Kozachenko on her birthday. Leonid Petrovich, happy birthday! [[Applause]] We want health and success. Dear colleagues, in Ukraine there is a Higher Council of Justice, consisting of 20 members. According to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints three members of the Supreme Council of Justice. According to part two of article 208 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the proposals made by the deputy factions to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of Justice, proposals were made for appointment of members of the Supreme Council of Justice: Painted Alexi Volodymyrovich and Mamont Irina Yuriovna I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with part five of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a decision on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice is taken by secret balloting. I want to assign the head of the Counting Commission, National Deputy Alexander Chernenka, to do the necessary work to organize such a secret ballot. And now, dear fellows, we can cross over. Please, Alexander Chernenko, head of the Counting Commission, please speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u3	One minute. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, for the organization of the meetings of the Counting Commission, I ask the members of the Counting Commission to meet on the third floor. I'm going to remind you of the composition of the Counting Commission: Czernenko Alexander is the head, Zastavní Roman Josephovich is the deputy of the head, Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich is the secretary of the Military Commission, Alekseiev Igor Sergiyovich, Arjev Vladimir Igor Igoryovich, Vojcecka Viktoria Mikhajlivna, Grzydzdov Mikhajilo Aleksijovich, Gordjeev Andrija Anatolievich, Dovbenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, Eframova Irina Aleksiyivna, Korčik Vitali Andryovich, Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, Pavlov Kostin Yuriovich, Papiev Mikolaajovich, Šlemko Dmitry Vasilovich and Južina Nina Petrovn. Colleagues, please come up to the third floor now. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u4	Thank you! Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We have a number of agenda issues, before we go to daytime issues on second reading, I would like to suggest that we include in the agenda three issues of importance with the immediate possibility of making a decision on this issue today. This is the draft decision to assign the name of Amet Khan Sultan to Simferopol International Airport (the Teteruk People's Deputy Project), registration number 2796. Next: 2805, draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization and Mobilization (to improve the legal and regulatory base of mobilization). It is also an important law. 2806, the draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety of Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area Where Military Status or Anti-Terrorism Operation Is Introduced. So all three laws are extremely important, including in terms of security. So there is a proposal that we now include them in the agenda with the decision taken today. Is there no objection? Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Head! We also ask that the day-to-day regulations 2833 and 2834 concerning parliamentary hearings on the implementation of the visa liberalisation plan. Because it's important that we take these decisions to the risk summit of the Eastern Partnership. And so we agree, I very much thank our dear colleagues from the People's Front factions who have heard the bill 2254 today: to amend some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening social protection for children. This is true of children in the ATO area. And there's already an opportunity to look at it in the session room, all the committees it went through, 2254. Please place it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before I make an offer, she goes through the necessary procedures in the apparatus. That is why I now entrust the Apparatus with the task of examining the legislation, the Rules of Procedure, the acts announced by Irina Heratchenko, and then we will determine how better it is to make a decision. Now I'd like to ask, colleagues, about the order of the day. I'll bet you a vote. One minute, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, colleagues in the coalition, I apologize that I did not raise this question yesterday, but at the request of the Minister of Education, today it is proposed to include for consideration 2599-:1 on the order of appointment of the Rectors, which is now a very relevant issue. We'll be able to discuss this with the coalition. I'm asking you now to complete the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, I will put to the vote the question of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, what I have announced: 2796 is the assignment of the name of Amet Khan Sultan to the international airport Simferopol, Andri Anatoliovich Teteruk author. And then there are two defense laws, 2805 and 2806, on mobilization and mobilization, on improving the legal and regulatory framework and on ensuring individual security for persons who perform service duties within the territory where the state of war or the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation is established. Please prepare for the vote for inclusion in the agenda. As well as 2599-1, according to Yuri Lucenka, to improve the selection mechanism. Please, colleagues, vote for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote. This is an inclusion in the agenda, please support us so that we can continue to work. Please be supportive. [[10:18:21]] For-200 Colleagues, pay attention, please. Get ready. I see you haven't made it. Please, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda, what I've informed you, are important bills. This is the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration. Let's vote, colleagues, please, colleagues, take your seats and vote. Ready? We vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. Vote. [[10:19:40]] For 218. Let's do it again. Please take your seats, everyone votes, and please, colleagues, be more careful. Please enter into the agenda. We vote, more carefully, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. I understand that the Counting Commission. [[10:20:15.]] For 219 Colleagues, we don't have a Counting Commission, I understand. Deputies come in, please. Please, once again, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process. People's deputies, please vote. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Then we'll start our consideration of the issues. [[10:21:01]] For 222 [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats, colleagues! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u9	Please come to the hall, please, to your workplace! Dear fellow MPs, please enter the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u10	Colleagues, take your seats, let's vote! Ready to vote in the agenda? Please vote, inclusion in the agenda according to the transcript and decision-making. [[10:22:35]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace, colleagues! It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u11	Please, come on. Integrating into the agenda and making decisions. Please vote. Please be supportive. 2796, 2805, 2806, 2599-1. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:23:33]] For 230 Thank you. Thank you. Let's go to. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear coalition colleagues, I'm addressing you. Just now, the head of the Supreme Council announced that staffing issues, such as the election of members of the High Council of Justice, would be under consideration today. I want to inform the Ukrainian public that there is no common coalition position on this issue, so I suggest we remove these issues today, discuss on the board of the coalition, make agreed human resources decisions, then vote. Today we see again an attempt by factions that don't join the coalition to solve the workforce. drag personnel questions. I strongly deny it. I demand compliance with the coalition agreement, compliance with the Coalition Rules that we have, which provides for consensus in making decisions. There is no consensus now. That's why I'm calling for a coalition council, once. Remove these personnel issues, two. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Please gather around. There's plenty of time left for you to talk in 12 hours. But I would like to inform you that the work of the High Council of Justice today is blocked. And we need to carry out all the assignments, including the Supreme Council. Three people are to be elected from the Supreme Council, two are to be served by the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, and there is no faction for the third time. So please have time to agree on the proposals and that's it. It is important for me that all the bodies to be formed by Parliament be formed. The fact that these proposals have been public for several decades is also common knowledge. So please gather around again, conduct consultations, make suggestions, and. Please do. Thank you. My colleagues, I have a question, I have a question for the people's deputies, for example, Alexi Hotcharenko. Alexi Hotcharenko, please tell me, Alexi, am I interrupting you here? Am I interrupting? Thanks, guys. Please, Shipko, yes, National Deputy Shipko, I'm not interrupting, am I interrupting? You're the one who gets in the way when you talk to your colleagues. We can keep busy. Maxim Burbak, am I interrupting? Please take your seats, let's get to work. There's a place in the towers, my friends, there's a place in the towers. Don't insult me, I respect you all very much, all of you, absolutely, but when 400 people speak in the hall, when the day is formed, when the laws are to be considered, and we 226 cannot vote in the presence of MPs, I don't understand that. Perhaps someone can explain. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, take your seats. National deputy saint, ask the national deputy saint: is he not disturbed by the chairman? Igor Cononenko. Please take your seats, if you need to talk, but please talk in the watches. Thank you for your understanding. Please, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the assignment of the name of Amet Han Sultan to the Simferopol International Airport, the Teteruk People's Deputy Project. There is an offer to consider the procedure. Please specify how to view this project. Please consider the simplified procedure. [[10:28:15.]] For 175 Thank you. Decision taken. Please report to Andriy Anatoliyovich. The head of the Princely Mikola Committee will report. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u14	Dear Chief! Dear fellow MPs! Please support the draft Amet-Han Sultan International Airport Act. Airport names of national heroes are widespread in the world and in Ukraine. By renaming the airport, we will perpetuate the hero’s name, leaving him in memory of the future generation Amet Khan Sultan is a national hero of the Crimean Tatar people, a Soviet pilot-as, a participant in World War II. On June 30, 1945, for the successful conduct of 603 combat flights, personally shot down by 30 enemy aircraft of various types and 19 enemy planes shot down in group battles, the distinguished name Hero of the Soviet Union twice. From 1947 to 1971, a pilot-tester, a well-deserved pilot-tester of the USSR, the only Soviet pilot to test over 50 aircraft types. It has been tested personally in the air of 107 units of aerial technology. The Amet Khan Sultan’s approval of the name of the 7th-Seven-Seven-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventh-Seventheventh-Seventh-Seventheventh-Seventheventh-Seventheventh-Satan was also officially announced by the head of the board of the Onufrievi Air Force. In September 2010, delegates to the National Congress of Crimean Tatars, Kurultay, asked for a statement which the leader of the Majlis mustapha Djemilov sent to the country's superior leadership, to promote the assignment of the name twice by the Hero of the Soviet Union of Airplanes, the pilot pilot of Amet Han Sultan to the international airport "Simferopol". Also, renaming the airport will create new serious problems for the occupying state, because the Russian Federation peninsula after renaming all international documents will have to have a new application.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Mikola Knieżicki, co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u16	Thank you. We're returning debts that we were supposed to repay a long time ago. As you recall, the relevant decisions and suggestions were still in the previous call of the Supreme Council. Both Mustafa Jemilev and other national MPs have repeatedly offered to honor Sultan Amet Khan’s memory. I say Sultan Amet Khan, because we use the name first, and then the name. And maybe then you need to give editorial advice, correct it in the determination. Now we just have to do it. This is a symbolic and very important step that we are returning the debts of the Crimean Tatar people, which we honor, this people, and we support their struggle and solidarity with the Ukrainian people for our independence and freedom of the Crimean Tatar people. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality, at its meeting on 13 May 2015, reviewed the draft Decision on the Assignment of the Name of Amet Han Sultan to the International Airport Simferopol (Registration No. 2796), introduced by National Deputy Teteruk. During the discussion, individual members of the committee expressed doubts as to the manner in which the appointment was proposed. Considering that it is appropriate for the renaming to be carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as provided for in article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names. In summary, the draft decree in its original form, proposed by the legislator — the national deputy Teteruk — was supported by most of the national deputies of the committee present at the meeting. As a result of the review, the Committee recommends that the Amet Khan Sultan International Airport (No. 2796) be adopted as a basis and as a whole. The relevant minutes of the meeting are added. Please, the National Deputies, back this historic step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us see if it is necessary to discuss whether we are simply voting? None. Then we vote. I ask you to come to your workplace and prepare for the vote. And it's a draft decree on the assignment of Amet Khan Sultan to the Simferopol International Airport (number 2796) as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, let us approach the workplace and vote on the basis as a whole. Please support. [[10:33:40]] For 240 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in connection with this matter, I would like to give the floor to our fellow Ukrainian national deputy, Highly Honourable Mustafa Djemiliev. There's another draft decision that's extremely important, and he's going to inform. I'll make suggestions. Please, let's get some information. Attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I thank you very much for adopting this historic decree on the assignment of the name of Amet Han Sultan to Simferopol International Airport. Now I want to tell you about the second decision that we made on the agenda. Well, this is the Order, as it's called, now I'm going to tell you: the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the world leaders and the entire international community on the condemnation of violations of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, dear compatriots who are now under Russian occupation! May 18 is approaching the Memorial of the victims of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people. And since 2014, the Day of the Fight for the Rights of the Crimean Tatar People in Ukraine. On that day, in 1944, an NCS special operation took place, during which in just three days, about two thousand people were taken out of Crimea on trains that were not suitable for transportation. In the road, as well as in the early years, the deportees in Central Asia, Siberia, and Urals, as a result of famine, cold, disease, and inhumane living conditions, more than 46 percent of the total population of criminals died. Today history is repeated for the Crimean Tatars. The Russian Federation did not simply occupy our homeland. The aggressor state has launched unscrupulous repressions aimed at the physical and spiritual destruction of the Crimea's indigenous people, its extermination from their homeland. Thousands of activists and ordinary criminals are being persecuted for fabricated matters. Literally every Crimean Tatar feels that they can come after them tomorrow. The decree I am asking to support is aimed at drawing the attention of the world’s society to the plight of the Crimean Tatar people under occupation. Such statements may not seem to be of practical benefit on the spot, that is, in the Crimea. But I want to assure you that Kremlin terrorists and their puppets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u20	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u21	And their puppets in Crimea don't react in vain to our actions. The more we talk about Crimea, the more we draw attention to the problems of our fellow citizens there, in Crimea, the more difficult it is for the invaders to hide their crimes, the clearer they realize the inevitability of their punishment in the near future. I have no illusion that Russia will do either of these points, but I have a firm belief that soon the Russian regime will be held accountable for each of them. Thank you for your attention! Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I would like to inform you that what the Honourable Mustafa Jemiliev said is a draft of Decree 2821, which is a proposal to include in the agenda of the decision-making process. Then Hannah Hopko, head of the committee of profile, will report to him according to the materials discussed on the committee. If there is no objection, I propose (registration number 2821) a draft decree prepared by Mustafa Jemiliev, to be included in the agenda for an immediate decision. Please vote, please be determined, please support, Your Honor, Mustafa Jemiliev's ruling. Can I have your back, please? [[10:39:21]] For 239. Thank you! There's an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, please make up your mind. [[10:39:41]] For-198 Thank you! I invite you to speak to the head of the profile committee, Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u23	Comrades, good day to you all! On May 18, we will celebrate the 71st anniversary of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people from Crimea. And this decision is symbolic of what Parliament could have done before the 71st anniversary when in 1944 about 200,000 people were forcibly evicted from the Crimea. And so, given the events that are currently taking place in Crimea, where there is no access for international observers to identify human rights violations where there are no OSCE representatives. And it is very important for us to record the violation of rights, and to encourage the world community to protect the Crimean Tatar people that are part of the Ukrainian people right there. The committee considered the draft ruling yesterday and we would like to thank the co-authors for their operational preparations, including Arthur Gerasimov, Mr. Jemiliev, so that we can vote today and that by May 18, Parliament had fulfilled its duty. The committee members support, and this decision has been prepared with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's too much to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please. Please prepare for the vote. In general, we are voting on the draft decree (registration number 2821). Draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, world leaders and all members of the international community on the condemnation of violations of the rights and freedoms of the Crimean Tatar people. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Vote please, colleagues. Please support 2821. Please vote. [[10:42:07]] For 247 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Draft law (registration No. 2805), prepared by the Pashin People's Deputy Project on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. There is an offer by the author to consider the summary procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[10:42:39]] For 177 Decision taken. Please give me four minutes, like a reporter and a committee. Please report, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! Bill 2805 is one sentence in the Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization and on Military Duty and Military Service. You and I, when we discussed in this room at the beginning of the year the issue of demobilization, we were implementing a rule that demobilized military personnel couldn't appeal to mobilize for six months. And then we passed a law that all demobilized military personnel move to the first operational reserve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. There is a slight contradiction. And it's suggested that this rule of law that prohibits them from mobilizing for six months, that it should be introduced for a special period, that it doesn't work. So we're actually making one sentence that sounds like this: after the words "they were released from service to reserve," add the words "except for military personnel in the military operating reserve of the first queue." Considering that there are no controversial rules here, the committee unanimously supported the bill yesterday and asked the room to support it on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, is there a need for two-for-two-again, honorary colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u27	Let's vote. You heard the report. 2805: Draft Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization There's a committee proposal, based on the basis and in general. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. On the basis and in general. Please vote. Please vote 2805 as a basis and as a whole. [[10:45:21]] For 213 There are no votes on the ground and on the whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? Please, colleagues. To return to the vote? 2805, to form a legal framework for mobilization and mobilization, a colleague. Please prepare for the vote. We're voting for the return. Please. On your return, please support. Please be supportive. [[10:46:22]] For 226 Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, we've returned to our consideration. I understand that there are no ideological objections. We need to support this bill. Ready to vote? Please, the honourable people's deputies, please vote 2805 as a basis and as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're back. Mobilization work. Who doesn't support it? An important law. What are we talking about? Please support me. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:47:34]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. The draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety for Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area Where Military Status or Anti-Terrorism Operation is Introduced. The author is the national MP Vinnik. There is a proposal by the author: consider the draft law as a simplified procedure. Please. on the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[10:48:19]] For 177 Decision taken. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, good morning! The purpose of the bill is to allow those civil servants who travel to the war zone into the ATO zone to be able to use weapons. How will this be done? We grant the Ministry of Internal Affairs the right to temporarily issue firearms to the President's staff who are driving, to the Cabinet of Ministers who are going to the ATO. That's normal, because today these civil servants in the ATO area already have weapons. It's a matter of personal protection. We understand that there is a degree of danger to their lives and health, and that's why this law is called "the granting of personal protection" under which weapons are considered. I want to emphasize that the weapon will be used temporarily, as in the case of non-permanent use, so this will actually be a table weapon. And the proper order will be done by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the responsibility for control. on the circulation of these weapons, which will be held by a civil servant who will be in the ATO zone of deployment, will rely on the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This bill, taking into account the circumstances in which Ukraine today is located, taking into account the territory under occupation today, including the criminal state of the Russian Federation, we need to regulate the legislative framework accordingly in order to give an appropriate answer that will allow us to do our job properly. Please support as a whole. It's not a complicated bill, but it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is it. There is a need to discuss whether or not.? One minute, Illenka, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u30	Please report to the head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u31	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, this law is certainly right. It needs to be supported, but let's do it in a way that doesn't just apply to officials and law enforcement officials, and this applies to opportunities and equality for all citizens. Parliament has a registered bill (number 1135-1), a draft Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act. I am one of the co-authors of this bill, just like so many other national deputies of all factions and non-fractional ones. And it is this law that will enable it to make it an equal opportunity to protect itself for all citizens of Ukraine. That is why it is important to adopt this law, but I stress the importance of making equality and the ability of every person to protect his life and health, including in combating Russian aggression when every person is able to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u32	Thank you very much. One more minute from the committee, the head of the committee, Sergei Pashinsky, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u33	I want to address the Supreme Council. Everyone understands the relevance of this bill, it doesn't really solve the global issue of arms circulation in the state, but it solves the issue very concretely. We're sending civilians to the ATO area and we have to ensure that they're safe at all levels. The law provides for a clear regulation on temporaryity, I stress, on the basis of local, urban and district departments of internal affairs during, I emphasize, while in the ATO area, the possibility of using firearms during deployments after all procedures that will be provided for by subordinate normative acts. I'm asking you a lot, this law should have been passed in the past year, a lot of people here are in the ATO area, and some of the retards are coming up to me, including saying, "I'm sorry, well, we feel totally unprotected," and that's the issue being settled. There's a lot of civilians out there right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u34	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u35	Now we are building, for example, a line of fortifications, very many civilian civil servants of our state, and in general, even members of the military and civilian administrations that are constantly there, who are not military personnel, they also need weapons to carry out their duties, unfortunately. Please support this bill on the basis and in general. This committee's decision is unanimous.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Respectful colleagues may need to settle this issue in a legislative way, perhaps by regulating it, including by applying the mechanisms provided for in this law. But let's be a little careful, let's vote this law out in the first reading on the basis, send it out for a second reading, and we'll look at it in a simplified way, in order to remove all of the differences, both by procedure and by count of the people who are given the opportunity to get weapons. This is the first time. Secondly, a number of cases need to be regulated. Well, let's say the Cabinet official got a gun for the ATO period, and then he "lost" it. What should we do about it? How can this be regulated? All these points need to be worked out at the stage of preparation for second reading. Therefore, I propose to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u38	Colleagues, I think this might be a reasonable suggestion to make proposals to the second reading. And what National Deputy Vlasenko said, which is the basis and short-circuited procedure for preparing for second reading, that means that next week we'll be able to approve it, but it's already worked out. Please, colleagues, take your seats. 2806: The draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety of Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area Where Military Status or Anti-Terrorism Operation Is Introduced. There was a proposal to vote it as a basis. So this is a proposal I'm putting to the vote, dear colleagues. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please, on the basis of 2806, vote on the basis. We're voting on the basis. [[10:55:46]] For 233 Decision taken. 233. And there was also an offer to prepare this draft Law for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please support such an offer. In preparation for the second reading, the procedure is shortened. Is there no objection to this proposal? Well, the offer is, I put it to a vote. Please. [[10:56:18]] For-167 This offer was not supported. Then the general procedure will be to prepare for the second reading. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Law (Registration No. 0909) amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (State Aid to Hostages). Please welcome to the rostrum the head of the Budget Committee of Andri Pavelek, please. And let's go, table, colleagues, you've been given attention! And we'll go after the repairs. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill No. 0909 proposes to oblige the principals to add to the budget requests a copy of the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee on the possibility of granting appropriate State aid, taking into account the need to meet competitive conditions. In preparing the draft draft for second reading, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Antimonopoly Committee and Minfin, reviewed and supported two proposals made to clarify the content of the regulations. The committee therefore approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 0909, taking into account the supported proposals to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, according to the committee head’s report, all the proposals that were made are considered by the committee and there is no unaccounted for. This means that we can, if there is no objection, vote on this bill in second reading and in general. I'd like my colleagues to take their seats. Now we're going to start voting for the draft law (registration number 0909) in second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general. Please vote. 0909 in second reading and in general according to the committee’s decision. [[10:58:43]] For 231 Decision taken. I would ask my colleagues to be more considerate, respectful friends, more considerate. Draft Law registration number 1565. Dear colleagues, important law, important law. Reported to Alona Babak, deputy head of the profile committee. It's a draft law on property rights in a multi-room building. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u41	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to pay attention to the bill that is proposed for second reading. Why? Because this bill will apply to every Ukrainian who lives in apartment buildings. And it's called "on the specificities of the exercise of property rights in a multi-room building" under registration number 1565, which was prepared by the government, but which has actually become a bill that has been worked on by all members of the profile committee, joined the deputies of all factions, and has been amended by 127 to really meet the requirements of modernity and to provide us with reforms in the area of housing and utilities, and in general the economy of Ukraine. In fact, a working group that worked for more than two and a half months was established in the Committee for Preparation for Second Reading. It was composed of representatives from all regions of Ukraine, various professional associations, representatives of associations of owners, residential cooperatives, local self - government bodies, professional associations of managers, and an enormous amount of work was prepared to work on the bill. And today I would like to ask your support for this bill. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority on second reading. And I would like to read today to take into account one of the proposals made by the Chief Executive, in particular to exclude from article 10 of the draft law the word "document that bears witness to a person in order to protect the personal data of the co-owners." I also ask you to reject an editorial bill that was made by the wrong legal authority, and this is the position of the comparative table number 222. Editorial: a written survey in the general congregations and so forth. In fact, the bill will open up opportunities for co-owners to exercise their rights in the management of houses where they own apartments and dwellings. This law will open up opportunities for the development of a housing management market, for a complex thermomodernization of buildings, and in general it will allow our owners to actually become owners of their dwellings. This is an extremely important system law that is enshrined in the Coalition Agreement. So, your honor, I'd like you to support him with those two lines that I just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I address Mrs. Helen. I'm sorry I didn't make the amendment in time, but I'm asking you to exclude paragraphs 4 and 5. These are two points that provide for the commitment and forcible involvement of managers in multi - apartment buildings that have not been identified or created by OSBB. We don't have the right to make people pay extra without giving them the opportunity. So please take the fifth and fourth points of the Final Position. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! The end-of-life situation is that if, within a year after the law became effective, co-owners in a multi-housing apartment did not make a decision, or create a merger, or choose another form of house management, they did not do so on their own, it is now stated in the Final Positions that for such houses the local government will conduct a competition for the governor's choice, until the owners themselves make a new decision and change the manager who was appointed by the local self-governance authority. Why is this standard more progressive than what is today? Today, we just have, you know, some kind of community checkers holding a monopoly on housing. At the same time, we say that housing and housing management are different things, and we should go to the point where coowners should manage their property. But if we see that the owners are not yet ready, the body will do so for them at the time of the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u45	Please, Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u46	I am now addressing all Troka deputies to listen carefully – this is important. Well, first of all, the committee and the committee manager did a very big job, and the OSB law is necessary. But at the same time, by voting now for this law, we have to realize that for the average tenant of a multi-story building, the hedgehogs, not the "breeds", the 3-story, is obliged to pay for the capital repairs of buildings, for basements, for engineering buildings, for everything in the world: for roofs, for driveways, for elevators. I want to tell you that people can do it voluntarily today if they're really willing to do it. But if people aren't ready, you can't force them to issue payments of 20 to 30,000 dollars when they're only getting one and a half thousand dollars of revenue. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u47	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u48	This will apply to every Ukrainian citizen. And this law provides that if a person does not pay the 20,000 dollars for the capital repairs, an authorized or managing officer appointed by the municipal services can go to court and take property from a person. It's another wave. For a second reading again, because it's a law that will touch every person.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, today it is the responsibility of each owner to provide for the major repairs in apartment housing. Today, no normative document indicates that the state or local authorities are funding private funds from their own budget. These are, unfortunately, the realities of our lives. And we have to say that property is binding, it's not about the residents, it's about the owners of housing, but property, according to the Constitution, is binding, we're paying you today just for the maintenance of housing, and no amount of money is going to go into real capital repairs. Buildings are being destroyed, and the JECKs have no basis for legislative financing, no capital work in the houses. The further we freeze this situation, the further we develop a negative situation in the state. No one repeals the 1992 Law on Privatization of the State Housing Fund, where there is a duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u50	Thank you. Please. I totally support it. People's MP Rosenblatt. Then there's Kodol's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! On Maidan, we chose the European path of development. Today, the creation of OSBB is a European path. Because the question of the Jacks, the question of all that we've been living in the Soviet Union, should end. Today, the government has made and developed many programs on energy efficiency and energy efficiency, and everything else. Our question of independence or national security today still lies in our independence in energy efficiency. That's why I'm asking for Peter Prashenko's Block, and I urge everyone to support this bill. And make it possible for people to own their lives and not depend on anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u52	That's right, absolutely. Please, Kodola People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u53	Alexander Kodolah, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, there is indeed an urgent need to ensure effective management of the common property of apartment buildings. And it is this bill that will create more favourable conditions for the creation and operation of OSBB in Ukraine at all. That's why the People's Front faction supports this bill and urges all colleagues to support it in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Igor Nasalik. Then Sergei Melnik. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u55	Dear friends! There is probably no one in the room who has doubts that Jacky has a post - Soviet system that is insufficient and impossible. And the fact that it needs to be transformed into new forms of housing services is absolutely right. And, of course, we support Mrs. Babak's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u56	It's not Mrs. Babak. It's government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u57	But I must say that I want to fully support Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Because the transition to OSBB is not a simple period. Because 80 percent of the housing fund needs investments that are practically nonexistent. So, of course, we will uphold the law. But from this law to its implementation, there is still a long and long way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, in general, in support of the philosophy of this law, I would still ask you to support Oksana Prodan's proposal to exclude paragraph 5 of the Final Provisions. Because it seems that the most exciting thing about stewards is happening. And if that's the case, the cost of managing a multi-room house is determined according to the methodology. I think it should be an evolutionary way of creating a competitive environment of governance and maintaining multi-story buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u61	Unfortunately, I can’t understand what they said because the fifth paragraph says that competition is about to develop. Local government authorities only if a merger is not created or another form of management is not chosen by the owners, such as self - management or involvement of a professional owner, and only in those cases will it be written on competitive grounds for the selection of a local government administrator. And only until the owners change the situation on their own does the law give them to make such decisions. So it's much more progressive than it is right now when there's a JECK who's sitting there knowing it's a monopoly and no one can move it. Regrettably, then, this amendment simply cannot be ruled out, but it is linked to other chapters of this law. I'd like you to look at it differently.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, please. Then Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u63	Sobolje, Fatherland. I ask you to confirm Amendment 117 and 118. I support this situation in Babak and the previous speaker that until a decision is taken by 75 percent of the participants in the future of the OSBB, there should be a line of financing from the municipal budget. And let's not change the concept here. One is the municipal budget funding, which is clearly at the expense of this budget, and the other is at the expense of some competition, where there will be a manager who does not have the funds to finance it. So, I'm sorry, by the time the OSBB is formed, this should be the responsibility of the local authorities. And the second question. Unfortunately, this is not a division of what the ESRB is doing, but what the local budget is doing. This too is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u64	This is not the subject of regulation of this law. 117, 118, I heard. Thank you. I'll make sure of it. Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u65	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. I have a question for the reporter. Please explain how they communicate with the Constitution of Ukraine the position of transitionals, which provide for changes to the CC in article 13, part 2, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. Let me explain. The point is that the owners of the apartments are the owners of the entire house. And property management decisions are made by a majority of the votes needed to make decisions at the FSB. That is, a part, a minority, does not take part in the management of its own property. This is an unconstitutional position, so I suggest you either explain to me what it meant specifically, or remove this article from the law. In general, the law is, of course, necessary, correct and without this position, I will personally vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. The amendment to the Civil Code is based on the fact that the practice of life has already shown that the mergers of co-owners are already taking decisions by a majority of votes, not by 100 percent consent, as the general rule of the Civil Code on joint property management has been written. Unfortunately, you can't make a decision in a multi-family house if you don't have a 100 percent union. It's a dead norm. That's why we can't change anything today with this 100 percent consent rate. And that's why we're always in hostages: either create a legal person, and people aren't ready for this, or they just can't make decisions, because they have to agree 100% on every decision that concerns the house. Renting a basement or renovating a roof requires a hundred percent consent. So the idea here is that in multi-family homes, these decisions will be made in the same way as in mergers today -- a majority of the votes -- or more than 50 percent, and in property management, for example, 70 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u67	Seventy - five percent Thank you. Betrayals, but. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u68	I'd also like, dear colleagues, to pay attention to what was being sent to. to the legal analysis of the rules on the constitutionality of this bill, and we have the conclusion of the former Constitutional Court judge for the first time, to which there is great respect, on the basis of the conclusions on the constitutionality of this law. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. The repairs, right? Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u70	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I see in this law that the state is transferring responsibility for the ongoing repairs to OSBB. Therefore, I propose that my amendment be confirmed, namely, the former multi-house balance sheeter or the person who managed the apartment building before the merger is established, within three months of the date of the national registration, ensuring that the current renovation of the apartment building and the transfer of a copy of the technical and other documentation provided for by the legislation are carried out. This is Amendment 96. What will this amendment do? Today, we do not have to hand over the buildings to people to repair them. If the state today provides for normal housing, waternets, roofs, access, lighting, and instigating territory, people should take new ones directly and continue to maintain them. If the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u71	Please, Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u72	As far as you're concerned. Current repairs are now financed by the cost of maintenance of buildings, buildings, and accommodating areas. We're already funding these jobs, so to say that someone has to do something, it doesn't fit the reality, because we're already paying for it every month. And the organization that's doing this maintenance has to do these things. If it does not, the consumer has the right to apply to the consumer's non-application act and to have a payroll. So the issue of current repairs is working today, and no one has canceled them, and they will never cancel them. This is a completely considered question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u73	Thank you. National Deputy Solovay, one minute. And let's get to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u74	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time we put an end to the level of popularism in the talks that the state has financed over the past 20 years, and we've financed the restoration of housing in cities or villages. But it wasn't. Just because the state did not finance, it led to a terrible condition of the houses. And so this law is absolutely necessary, this law allows people to choose for themselves who will serve them, and it takes this service to the local authorities. And that's why I'm addressing all the national MPs. These technical details and adjustments, they don't have a significant impact. This law is essential if we are to correct the situation in our nation’s housing fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before the amendment is made, I ask for your attention, my friends! Can I have your attention, please? See, this bill is extremely important. I'll put the amendments to the vote, I've fixed them. Colleagues, I'd like your attention, distinguished national deputies. Rosenblatt! People's MP Rosenblatt! Please take all your seats. Dear colleagues, this is a very important law, and I'll tell you why, but before I say why, I would like to ask you, representatives of all of Ukraine. Who here, in the hall, knows 10 houses, 10, where the government's capital repairs have been made for 20 years? Raise your hand, please, who? There's no such thing. I'm pretty sure there's less of them in Hmelnick. I just want to say one thing. That no one had ever done the capital repairs separately, it was in Soviet times. Today, this is not about capital repairs. Today it is not about the current repair because it is regulated. Today it is the only one. After all, we have to adopt a law, which is this law that will completely destroy the power of the JECK! The cheques must remain in the past! Every Ukrainian citizen has the right to choose who and at what cost he will be served! And that only means one thing. We are now freeing this law from slavery to Ukrainians in front of the housing and operation offices -- the rudiments of the Soviet electoral system! So I'd like to ask you, dear friends, all to consolidate. Your business, as you vote. I will uphold this law. Because I think it's a huge step forward. And we'll do everything we can to ensure that there's no abuse in this sector. We're all going back to the territory. All of us. If we're talking about capital repairs, please let's separately adopt a normative base on capital repairs, identify sources of funding, determine who and how this is going to be done. I support that. But this law allows for a completely normal decentralization of this position today. Please, my friends! We had a number of amendments that were announced. This is about us being with you, now I would suggest that we not balance this law, adopt it within the framework, as it was worked out on the committee. (I'll put it all together, don't worry!) It's balanced there. Experts were working. They have been working on this law for six months. So there's the next proposal. There was a proposal for 117th, 118th amendment and confirmation of Sobolev. Oh, 96th Ivchenka! Amendment 96 to confirm this amendment. 96th. 96th. Comments the committee manager, deputy manager. We're deciding. Please, 96 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u76	96 was rejected because the first part of this amendment is already available in the project: in paragraph 43, paragraph 3, of part two of article 13. And the second question. Current repairs have already been set up in maintenance tariffs for buildings, buildings, trailers, and should be performed by the contractor under the terms of the contract. Therefore, the committee was not included. It's about old age. Dear colleagues, I hear a comment. Sadly, we now live in homes where we own apartments. And according to 382 percent of the Civil Code, we're with you, who owns apartments and owns de jure joint property in these houses to tell us that something gives us this is wrong. Legally, we are already coowners; we already own this property. And today, there's an absurdity that Jack keeps our property on balance and manages it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u77	Please. Amendment 96. You heard. Colleagues, the author of the amendment submitted the amendment, sounded. 96th. I made an argument about what was going on. Now there was the committee's response to this amendment. So please, colleagues, 96 amendments made by the national deputy Yvchenko and not supported by the committee. Please vote on its confirmation. This is confirmation of the 96 revisions of Wadim Ichchenk. The Wetthe Fund has a separate definition structure. Please, 96, identify yourself. [[11:25:16]] For-86 Not accepted. Next: 117 and 118. Sobolev, a national MP, reasoned. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u78	These are my edits. 117th and 118th revisions that were considered by the committee. Their point was that compared to the version that was offered by the government on the first reading that we accepted. The point was that if the owners were not determined by the form of government or by unification, they were assigned simply to the words "as appointed by the executive body of the administrators, and the price was determined by the method approved by the central authority." The proposal was mine, which should be on the competition ground, the price is determined by the results of such a competition that the steward is assigned for a year to have the right of people to change it. But the guarantee was a year’s steward, something to do or not to do. Because you can't change the terms of contracts at any time. Let's do a year, and then, if we don't, we change.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u79	Please 117 for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u80	By the way, it adds that if, one month before the end of the specified period, none of the parties will notify the other in writing of the rejection of the contract, the contract is considered to have been extended to another one-time period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u81	Thank you. 117 for confirmation, please identify yourself. Stop! Stop voting. Stop voting. Ah, this is 117th for confirmation, so this is in the committee's version, this is in support of the law. 117 for confirmation. Let's support it. Are you guys all set? 117 for confirmation, she's on the committee's side. It doesn't change the body of the law. You've heard that a public, competitive, transparent system is formed. Colleagues, calm down, please! Look, I'm calling your attention once again: an extremely important bill, destroying the JECK monopoly, balanced with an expert environment, a bill. We don't have moral rights, I don't think we have to break this law. So I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, the 117th amendment to support and please support. 117th Amendment, guys. Please support all deputies regardless of groups and factions. This is the destruction of the monopolies of the Jacks, let's support you, you'll be applauded in your districts for that. Please, stand by. Please vote. 117 for backup, for confirmation. [[11:28:23]] For 249 Thank you, my friends, thank you! 118th Amendment for confirmation, please support 118th, friends, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u82	118th actually says that it's going to be one year, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u83	Please, it's important that no more than a year, no more abuse. Vote please, 118th. Support me, 118th Amendment, my friends. Please be supportive. [[11:28:55]] For 243 Thank you! And I would like to support you in the second reading and in general in the Committee's version. Vote, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u84	With two axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u85	With the two papers that were announced, who, Alona? Alona Babak, with two Alona Babak papers, options for the committee. Please vote, my friends, vote! Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:29:22]] For 256 Bravo! [[Applause]] This is another reform law that the Ukrainian Parliament has passed, and the monopoly of the Jacks will be destroyed after it is signed as President, of which they have no doubt, and this monopoly will be destroyed. Thank you, fellows of honor! All the suggestions that will be, all the comments that will be, the new law -- there can always be nuances. That's why we're here to make things better, to make things better, to make things better. Thank you, Your Honor, for your support. Please, Your Honor, 0902: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (for land formation and their state registration on the basis of documentation with the land structure developed before 2013). 0902 on second reading, Taras Kutov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the bill is a transitional, it was registered by the National MP of the seventh call of the apostle and prepared by the Committee for your consideration. In fact, the point of the bill is not to go into detail. He suggests allowing the state to register land on the basis of documents that people have developed before the change of legislation, that is, before 01.01.2013, but have not been able to register the relevant areas. So the legislation has been changed and actually in place, once these changes have been made, people are forced to re-produce that technical documentation in fact by the same standards and regulations, but again, and it usually costs our citizens extra. This problem is now widespread. Two amendments were made to the bill by the People's Deputy Kulinić, both taken into account. The committee therefore proposes by its decisions the draft Ukrainian law on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the formation of land and their state registration on the basis of documentation with the land structure developed by 2013) (registration number 0902) to be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u87	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this bill has gone through all the formal stages, all the amendments that have been made are taken into account. And so there is a request to vote for it. Please step closer to the cards so that we can vote. Now we're going to the vote. Please be prepared. Thus, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (on land formation and state registration on the basis of documentation with the land structure developed before 2013) is voted on. Please accept this bill in a second reading. Please vote. Please. [[11:33:35]] For 263 Thank you, Your Honor. A second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (regulating the activities of chaplains in organs and institutions within the administration of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine). The report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Law Enforcement Act, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u88	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, Vladimir Borisovich, all laws in Ukraine are now being adopted by the reformist parliament. The only thing we have is the Public Prosecutor's Act, it was also reformist, it was very good, so everyone was saving for it -- but there's no way they can do it. And it can't work because so many people are acting like this today, I mean important people who are responsible for law enforcement today. This bill, number 1154, is very well known, I've already reported it on February 11th and thank you all for voting on it. We worked very well on it on the committee. There were 13 suggestions. 5 we counted, 8 we turned down. I think the authors of these proposals will agree with ours. With what the committee recommends. They, these proposals, do not contain sufficiently well - founded, clearly formulated proposals, are questionable and lead to a legal coalition. The All - Ukrainian Council of Churches, which is very important to us, is grateful. and the religious organizations of Ukraine are asking to adopt the project as a law. And more than that, she turned to the National Deputies after we accepted it as a basis of gratitude, which, indeed, is necessary today. And it is here that many of the drafters of this bill, who have been doing this for five years, are preparing this bill. And Yuri Miroshnichenko took care of the bill himself all the time. That is why I believe that this bill is very relevant today, and we are addressing all the issues related to the pastoral work, including in places of deprivation. So I ask the honourable colleagues to accept the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u89	Thank you very much. A number of amendments had been made to the bill, which had been rejected. Now we're going to go through each one of them. Do the authors of the amendments insist on voting? So, amendment number 2 of the Lopushansky People's Deputy. Does the Lopushian vote insist? No, it doesn't. Amendment 3, People's Deputy Lensky. She's been rejected by the committee. Does Lensky insist? Don't insist. Amendment No. 5 of the Sotnik People's Deputy. Does it insist on confirmation? Don't insist. Amendment No. 6 of the Gulyev People's Deputy, dismissed. Is Golovajov insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. Amendment 8, National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. Amendment 9, Walking. Don't insist, it's very good. Amendment number 10, Lopushanski, rejected. Don't insist. And we actually don't insist on all the amendments that have been rejected. And we can vote on the bill in the second reading. National deputies, colleagues, please take your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. The bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (registration of chaplains in organs and institutions) (registration No. 1154) provides for a second reading. Please vote and please support, national MPs. Please vote. [[11:38:30.]] For 231 Dear colleagues, the two factions have asked us for a recess, but they are willing to replace the request for a recess with a statement from the rostrum. So for one minute, the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the rostrum. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko. Dear fellow members of the national MPs, there is now a man in the room who is the name of the Ukrainian national deputy, while discrediting this high rank, betraying Ukraine and vindicating terrorists in his actions. I'm talking about the national, so-called National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Dunayev, who, at the May 9th rally in Severodonec, justified the terrorists from the LNR, the DNR, called these terrorists and traitors heroes who, with guns in their hands, defend their right to life and work. I have a question for Dunaev. First, go to this parliamentary rostrum and repeat what he said. And I have a requirement for the Attorney General of Ukraine: to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine without delay for the removal of parliamentary immunity and for the criminal responsibility of the so-called National Deputy of Ukraine, who calls terrorists heroes who defend their country with weapons. It is because of such ones as the Danube that we have shed blood on our home land, precisely because of such traitors as the misdemeanors of the Yanukovich gang, who are sitting in the Supreme Council today, that our country is scattered and shed blood. We require the Attorney General to submit a motion for the removal of parliamentary immunity and to bring criminal responsibility for the betrayal of Ukraine by the so-called National Deputy of Ukraine of the Danube. I'm talking to my colleagues on the Supreme Council. To be silent, to be patient, to pretend that nothing happens when there are people in this room who justify Russian aggression, who call the murderers of Ukrainian citizens heroes, to be disrespectful of ourselves, it is to disrespect our glorious Armed Forces, it is to despise the Ukrainians and people and the many sacrifices that this people have made in order to protect the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of our country. I'm asking the people's deputies of Ukraine to calm down, don't provoke a conflict. I demand that the National so-called MP of Ukraine Danube be brought to criminal responsibility, and I demand from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to take action so that Dunaev does not flee on a terrorist-controlled territory, as was the case with the King, as it might be in the case of the Clue and other so-called National Deputies. Please take steps to ensure that criminals do not escape responsibility. No excuse for the crime of Russian aggression! And bring responsibility to those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u91	Thank you very much for your application. Dear fellow national MPs! We as the highest legislator have and should require the prosecution to give a clear assessment of similar actions. But right now, I would very much like to ask all the national deputies to return to their jobs so that we can continue to work under our laws. To ensure that those who take an anti - state position do not lead to the collapse of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, we are now starting a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for exemption from the taxation of the property of religious organizations) No. 2226. The report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Eugene Nina Petrovna. And all the people's deputies, I strongly urge you to return to the workplace to continue our work. Please report, Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u92	Dear National Deputies! The Committee has been assisted by a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for exemption from the taxation of property of religious organizations). The second reading of the bill included seven rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u93	Members, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u94	Of the two national deputies, two of whom are included, three amendments are considered in substance and in part, two amendments are rejected because they do not apply to the subject of the first reading of the bill. These amendments provide for the exemption from taxes on immovable property other than land, the stillness of religious organizations used to secure their statutory activities, including those that carry out activities established by such religious organizations in charitable institutions, shelters, boarding houses, hospitals, and so on, other than those of real estate in which manufacturing and/or household activities are carried out. The purpose of facilitating the administration of this tax was also to take into account the amendment that the date of entry into force of this law is the first month following the month of publication of the bill in question. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has commented on the need to introduce technical and legal rights to the title of the bill and its section I. The remedies are strictly technical and do not change the substance of the bill and take them into account. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to support the bill in its revised version and to adopt it as a whole in the second reading as a law and to instruct the committee to prepare the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account technical legal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you to the National Deputies for understanding that they have returned to their jobs. Now we're going to go through the repairs. Two corrections were rejected. We'll finish the bill, and then we'll have any other statements and conversations. Okay, MPs? Please. So, the first amendment, the Lensky national deputy, was rejected by the committee. Does he insist on performing? Don't insist. Next. Is the Lensky National MP insisting? Is Lensky insisting? Don't insist. And that's why we're putting the bill on the vote as a whole. I'm asking the people's deputies to return to their seats. I would like to stress once again, when we consider the bill, we don't make statements, I'll give the floor to the statement, but not during the hearing. Now I'm putting a very important bill to the vote, so please be careful. The draft Law amending the Tax Code of Ukraine (for exemption from the taxation of religious organizations) (number 2226) is put to the vote on the second reading. Dear colleagues, please support. Please vote. Please. [[11:47:12]] For 248 Thank you so much for your support and the insistence of many deputies. A word for reply, one minute, is given to the representative of the Danube. Please, Replica, Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, once again, we simply see the counterfeiting of the statement by the people's deputies. And I'd like to tell you that the rally wasn't in the town of Northdoneck, Mr. Lazko, where you're used to pry, even goes. It's in Lysicansk. At least once you've gone to the war zone, where there are truly heroes, miners, metallurgy, petroleum products that today, losing their jobs, serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So if you want to express your views from an active point of view, show it on the line of contact with the fire. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u97	Thank you. I was informed that my husband wanted to apologize. We are now considering a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of legitimate professional activity of journalists, number 0924. The report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, present! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, colleagues, I would still like to introduce you to this bill, because it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u99	Excuse me, Mr. Andrew, one minute. Dear colleagues, this is an important question that many journalists are waiting for. So I ask you very much to return to my workplace. Please reduce noise in the hall, return to your workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u100	Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, I ask you to be able to consider this bill, because this is important for the journalists who are in the room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u101	Mr. Andrew, continue with the report, please. Deputies, back to your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u102	The Legislative Security Committee discussed on 4 March at its meeting the Comparative Table of the Bill of Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the guarantees of legitimate professional activity of journalists, which has long been awaiting its turn made by our colleague Mr. Karpuntsov. I would like to remind you that on July 25, 2014, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The bill proposes to increase criminal responsibility for crimes committed against journalists in connection with their professional activities, i.e. the additions will apply to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, articles 345-1, 345-2, 347-1, 348, 349-1 and 375. In general, the committee received 7 suggestions from law enforcement entities, which were considered by the committee, 6 were taken into account, 1 was rejected. But, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey, I would like to ask you, we have consulted with the MPs who have made this amendment and the committee asks, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to put it in support, which is the 3rd amendment of this bill. In general, the committee has taken into account those proposals that suggest comparing the limits of the sanctions of articles for crimes against journalists, for doing the same against a law enforcement officer, this is what part 1 of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Media and Social Protection of Journalists requires of us. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted on second reading and, in general, requested that proposal No. 3 be submitted for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u103	Thank you so much! We had only one amendment rejected, but the committee asked her to support it. Is there a need to speak, or do we vote? There's a request from the hall. Dear colleagues, I very much ask for attention, less noise in the hall. An important bill, and I very much ask that we now proceed to the vote. The author of the amendment may speak, Mrs. Ola is the author of the amendment. It says that the situation is sufficiently solicited and there is a request from the committee, I stress, to support Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u104	Yes, a request for support. This is a definition of the professional activity of a journalist, which will be clearly stated in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u105	That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to support amendment number three of the People's Chamber of Condratuk. Please vote in favour of the third amendment. Please vote. [[11:52:50]] For 219 We haven't been able to vote. I ask very much once again to be more careful, to take up jobs, not to walk around the hall, but to work in your workplace. Please come. I'm going to put it again. May I have your attention, please? Request from the committee, from the author of the amendment, that we vote in favour of Amendment No. 3 to Bill 0924.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u106	Andry Volodymyrovich, I just want to say one more time, as our colleagues come up with the idea that this amendment defines clearly the concept of "professional activity of a journalist."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u108	So we need to understand systematic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u109	Please vote, please support Amendment 3. Please vote, national MPs. Please vote. [[11:54:00]] For 230 Thank you very much. Colleagues, this was the only amendment that needed our discussion. We now put to the vote in the second reading and in general. And so I ask you to prepare for the vote, to enter the Chamber of Deputies that are in the towers. And I put to the vote a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the legal and professional activities of journalists number 0924 in second reading and in general. Please support me. Vote. [[11:54:54]] For 240 Thank you very much. Congratulations on adopting the bill. Now I would like to consult you for a recess so that we can vote on another bill: the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the features of the broadcasting of advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts of foreign television organizations) (No. 1455). According to the report, the secretary of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna, is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, before I consider the bill, I have to remind him of his purpose. Its aim is to create legislative conditions that would allow advertising money to stay in Ukraine and would severely limit the ability of the aggressor state channels to make money on the Ukrainian market by TV commercials. If the project is approved, it will be prohibited to broadcast or relay the advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts by foreign broadcasters in Ukraine if they do not fall within the jurisdiction of countries belonging to the European Union or countries that have not ratified the European Convention on Transborder Television. Instead, advertising in television companies from the European Union or countries that ratified the European Convention on Transboundary Television remains permitted. It is the implementation of this principle that this bill is aimed at. With regard to the drafting of the bill for second reading, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy had seven amendments that had been considered by the Committee. Two changes are counted, the rest is rejected. I will note that most of the amendments have been rejected due to the fact that, if approved, a revision of the provisions that Parliament approved in the first reading will actually be carried out. In line with the decision of the committee approved at its meeting on April 8, 2015, a second reading of the bill under number 1455 is recommended for consideration in the second reading and in general as a law. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has called for a bill without notice and believes that the project can be adopted in second reading t as a whole. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u111	Thank you very much. A small number of amendments have been made to the bill. I, with your permission, will walk very quickly through the authors, whether they insist that we vote them out. Amendment 1 of the People's Deputy Agaphonov. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 2nd, Agafone. Don't insist. Three, Lensky. Declined. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Five o'clock, Illuk. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 6th, Agafone. Don't insist. Thus, all the amendments that have been made are either supported by the committee or there is no insistence. That is why we can vote on this law in our second reading and in general. I very much ask the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, whoever's in the towers, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the session room. Thus, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (with regard to the characteristics of the broadcasting of advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts of foreign television organizations) (No. 1455) is put to the vote. Please vote on this bill in second reading and in general. Please support me. Vote. [[11:59:31]] For 233 Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your support, for your fruitful work. But now, according to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have to announce a half hour break. And I very much ask that in half an hour everyone gather in the session room to continue our work at 12:30, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall. As long as the people's deputies are meeting, I'm asking for Oleg Medunic's application. Please turn on the microphone in the rostrum to announce the remarkable event that we are celebrating today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! Ukrainian people! Today, it is 95 years old from the birth of the famous Ukraine of Stecko. The glory of Stecko was born in Ukraine, but she had to live outside it for a long time. I fought for the Ukrainian state against the Polish, German, and Soviet occupation. She was imprisoned in a German prison. I was involved in the fighting operations of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. Later, she led the organization for a long time, creating the Antiwiellow bloc of nations, bringing together the oppressed by the Bolshevism of the nation. She was the editor-in-chief of the ABN-Cospondez, the publication of the Anti-Villain bloc. Never once did the citizenship of any country where it was, remained Ukrainian, and as soon as the Ukrainian independent state became involved, it returned to Ukraine, engaged in political activity. She was a colleague of ours, a member of the Supreme Council. The content of her life has always been the struggle for Ukraine. Let us remember this courageous woman today. And today, at the Teacher’s House at 6 p.m., there's going to be an academy for the occasion of her Jubilee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u114	Thank you. Indeed, Slava Stecko has made an invaluable contribution to the acquisition and development of the Ukrainian State, a longtime deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why I also invite you to the evening of the ceremony, the ones that Oleg Medunic announced. And now we're going to look at our bills in order of the day. The next issue is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to stabilise the financial situation of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, number 2214. This bill is discussed in a second reading. And I invite the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy to report, the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy to the rostrum. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall. And please report to the reporter. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u115	Dear friends, dear colleagues! Ukraine's bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws to stabilize the financial situation of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, which was adopted in the first reading, if you remember, I reported to him on the first reading and asked him not to support his vote. In most cases, in order to understand the substance of the bill, it refers to two main points. Moment number one. NAC Naftogazu Ukraine's debt is over 19.6 billion dollars. If you look at the structure of this debt, of these 19.6 billion 6 billion is the difference in tariffs. And 13 billion is population debt. Of course, in the way that he was presented in the first reading, he had no right to exist. And so during the first to second reading, more than 101 deputies filed their amendments. And I'd like to stop at the main one, which led to the general discussion. In particular, the 38, which included a colleague from Self-Help, Mrs. Vojcitsick, and other deputies who ultimately provide a mechanism for calculating the heatcommunerge by different tariffs. But I didn't even trust it. And today, he asked the Ministry to make a decision, a draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on how this difference in tariffs would be counted. In addition, the 38th amendment reviewed that the debt of utilities can and should be restructured for at least 24 months. Thus, the main project predicted all the flaws discussed in the first reading. The main problem that has been and remains for today is population debt. And after the introduction, if this law is implemented, we want to or we don't want to, but we have to change two norms. Heatcommunergo, with the Warm Supply Act, can't shut down the population. Or we give him that right and we increase yields, we count on NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, or the situation at the Heatcommunergo and will continue to remain as it is today. That's why this law is still being passed, because: (a) it's almost 900 million euros of credit; the second is important in the process of privatizing energy and energy supplies. And you saw on the list how many of these objects were proposed. But on the other hand, we would ask the Committee on Housing and Social Affairs and the Fuel and Energy Committee to draft a bill on the possibility of seeking funds for those debts that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u116	Please give me 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u117	And now I'd like to ask, because this law has been over this for a long time, so, you know, this law has been violated, and we're asking for the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u118	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u119	To entrust the Chief Legal Authority and the Committee with the technical and legal processing of the law. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u120	Thank you. Above all, however, the Rules require all the amendments that have been made that have been rejected by the Committee. Sergey Sobolev insists on replicating. Maybe you'll tell me about the repairs or now? Please, Sergey Sobolev, 1 minute, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u121	Sobolje, Fatherland. I would like to, because I can't break the body, I absolutely agree with the amendment authors to be confirmed not only by the committee, but also by the Ministry of Energy -- I see there's a representative here -- directly three key standards: that foam and fines are being removed; secondly, that the standard that was previously discounted up to 70 percent could be privatized, there is no norm; and thirdly, that the rate is being paid by the Heatcommuner, and only in that case can these enterprises be subject to bankruptcy. Under any other circumstances, it's impossible. I would ask for confirmation not only by the committee but also by a representative of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u122	Mr. Sergey, on my part, I'm going to say that it was at the 38th Amendment that we predicted that neither foam nor fines -- they were taken off, and they weren't applied to the Heatcomeneggergo. So the main group of issues on this issue has been removed. The second question that we're all now, we don't have a difference in tariffs anymore, and we found that tariffs are economically sound. There are no differences in tariffs, and there is no mechanism for closing them. And last of all, with this kind of bill already adopted, I don't think there's going to be a procedure for secretly privatizing utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u123	Thank you. I want to point out that yesterday we discussed this issue, and there was a common position on the principle of the 38 amendment. Let's give the Ministry one more minute, and then we'll go according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u124	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, from February to this day, the Ministry, together with the Committee on Fuel Energy and with all the factions, has worked hard and optimized this law, that said Deputy Soboljev, 70 percent discount, which was in the first line of law, has been removed. And you can only impose serious sanctions on thermal utility companies if they have an economically sound tariff. Therefore, we feel that the law is acceptable to us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u125	Thank you. So, colleagues, please prepare. Amendment number one, People's Deputy Dubnevich, dismissed. Is Dubnevich insisting? Dubnevich doesn't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on Dubnevich's microphone for explanation, for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u126	I insist on this amendment. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u127	Thank you. So, amendment number one of the people's deputies of Dubnewich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please, first amendment, National Deputy Dubnevich. [[12:55:23]] For 109 Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 3rd Amendment. People's Deputy Sold. Is Oksana insisting? He insists. Please turn on Oksani Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to support this amendment and vote, to support it, to support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u129	Thank you! Amendment 3, People's Deputies Sold. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:56:05]] For-99 Thank you! The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment of 4th Dubnevich by the committee has been rejected. National MP Dubnevich insists? That's what it's all about. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u130	Deputies! I'm asking you to support my amendment and I'm asking you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u131	Thank you! So the 4th amendment of the People's Deputy Dubnevich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:56:43]] For 101 There are no votes needed. Amendment number five, national deputy Belkovy, rejected by the committee. Is Belkova insisting? Don't insist. 6th National MP Melnik, rejected by the committee. Does the Melnik insist? Don't insist. 7th National MP Lensky, rejected by the committee. Does Lensky insist? Don't insist. 8th, People's Deputy Sold, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? Mrs. Oksana insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u132	I ask that this amendment be put to the vote: regarding the need to ensure technological security and to support my amendment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u133	Thank you! The vote shall be voted on by amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy Sold for confirmation. Please vote. [[12:57:44]] For a hundred and Thank you. I didn't get the required number of votes. Amendment 9, National MP Martovicki, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone to Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u134	Respected colleagues, the presiding officer, in fact, wrote the bill purely for the sake of NAC “Naftogaz-Ukraine” and gave him the exclusive right to make a single decision on limiting the gas supply of debtors, introduces guarantees of two-month consumption, strengthens the enforcement mechanisms, introduces the most basic, sale of debt claims for gas at auction. I believe that this bill is lobbying and all the amendments that I have, the honourable chairman, I will insist on them. They are aimed at limiting the unique right of NAC Naftogaza to deal with issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Therefore, the national MPs who support Amendment No. 9 of the Martovick People's Deputies, please vote. Please. [[12:59:03]] For-82 They didn't get the required number of votes. Amendment 10, People's Deputy Dubnevich, rejected by the committee. It is included in another article. Is it insisting? Don't insist, it's very good. The 14th Amendment, again, is the national MP Martovitchki. The committee's dismissed. Is Martovicki insisting? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill should not give one enterprise the right to make decisions throughout the country and within a large number of enterprises. Moreover, colleague Igor Nasalik spoke of the fact that both the Heatcommunergo enterprises and the population that could not be held accountable for the debts that had arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u137	Please, who will support the amendment number 14 of National MP Martovitchki, please vote. [[13:00:09]] For-66 There aren't enough votes. 15 revisions. National deputy Vojtsiecki. Rejected in connection with the amendment in paragraph 12. Doesn't Vojcitsky insist? Don't insist, it's very good. 16th, once again, the people's deputy Dubnevich. Is Dubnevich insisting? I see he's not insisting. Thank you very much. 18th National MP Martovicki, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u138	I insist on this amendment for the same reasons as before. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u139	18th, the amendment of the people's MP Martovitch is a vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:01:05]] For-60 I didn't get the required number of votes. 19th, again Martovitch. Declined by the committee. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 21st National Deputy Xenbug. Declined by the committee. Is Xenbug insisting? Don't insist. 22 Amendment, People's Deputy Dubnevich. Declined by the committee. Is Dubnevich insisting? He still doesn't insist. 23rd People's Deputy Sold. Declined by the committee. Is Selling Urged? 22nd. You insist, don't you? We're 22nd, I've already announced 16th. 22nd, insists? No, it's not. Don't insist. 23rd Deputy of the People's Republic of Oxana Sold. Does it insist on 23rd? It insists on the 23rd. Are you going to argue or are we going to vote now? Vote. The 23rd amendment of the People's Deputy Sold. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:02:20]] For 112 24 Amendment, People’s Deputy Belkova. Declined by the committee. Is Belkova insisting? Don't insist. 25th, Martovitch. Declined. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 26th National MP Melnik. He insists, doesn't he? 25 Amendment – Martovitchi insists. Yeah? Please, 25 revisions. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. There's a vote coming. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:03:05]] For-64 There is not enough support. 26th National MP Melnik or insists? Don't insist, Melnik. Next amendment, 28th, again, Melnik, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 29th, Martovic, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? He insists, yes. Please vote who supports the 29th amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:03:43]] For-59 I didn't get the required number of votes. And the 32nd Amendment of Oksana Sold. Is it insisting? He insists. Is There a Need? Please turn on Mrs. Oksani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the 32nd amendment, which removes the possibility of not placing gas in those cases that are provided for by this law in additional cases with regard to today's situation. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u141	Thank you. Thus, the 32th amendment of the People’s Chamber of Commerce is based on the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:04:28]] For the 180. I didn't get the required number of votes. 34th, once again, Oxanas Sold, rejected by the committee. Does Mrs. Oksana insist? He insists. Let's put the 34th amendment to the vote. I ask those who support this amendment to vote. [[13:04:57]] For-84 I want to emphasize, society, 38 amendments -- a key point in our discussion -- are taken into account by the committee. It is in the body of the law, and this amendment was the basis for all factions to stress that this law will be upheld. Why don't we go as fast and as efficient as we can? A lot of fixes, and let's just make it quick. 39th, Krivenko. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 40th, Sold. Is it insisting? He insists. 40th Amendment. Please, whoever supports this amendment, please vote. 40th Amendment. [[13:05:46]] For 106 Thank you. No number of votes required. 41st, Vojcicka, rejected by the committee. Is Vojtsick insisting? Don't insist. 42nd National Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please, Lewchenko, put to the vote the 42nd amendment. Who supports the 42nd amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. [[13:06:21]] For-68 Thank you. No number of votes required. 43rd National Deputy Babak. Declined. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 44th, Efimov, rejected by the committee. Is it insisting? Jephthah is not insisting. 46th, Xenbug, correction denied. Is the people’s deputy Xenbug insisting? Don't insist. 49th National Deputy Sold doesn't insist. 50th National MP Melnik doesn't insist. 52nd People's Deputy Sold. 52nd, Mrs. Oksana. Don't insist. 58th, Belkova. This amendment is included in other paragraphs. Don't insist. 59th, Lopushanski. This amendment is included in other paragraphs. Don't insist. 60th, Martovitch. Is he insisting? He insists. Please, who supports the 60th amendment, please determine by vote. The 60th Amendment of Martovitch. Please vote. [[13:07:41]] For-58 No support is needed. 63 amendment, national deputy Babak. Declined by the committee. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 64th National MP Melnik. Don't insist. 65th, Bilkova. Don't insist. 66th, Martovitchki. He insists. Please put to the vote Amendment 66 by Martovitchki. Please determine how to vote. Please. [[13:08:32]] For-56 71st, Belkova. Don't insist. 74th, Oksana Sold. He insists. Please 74 amendments, by Oksana Prodan, to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:09:00]] For-94 There is no need for support. 75th National Deputy Bilkov. Declined. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 76th, Melnik. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Again, 77th, Bilkova. Don't insist. 78th, Melnik. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 79th, Bilkova. Don't insist. 81st, Melnik. Don't insist. 83rd, Melnik. Don't insist. 87th, Melnik. Don't insist. 88th, Melnik. Don't insist. 89th, Melnik. Don't insist. 90th National Deputy Storobuk. Don't insist. 91st, Belkova. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're, by the way, finishing up. I ask you to enter the hall of those who are in the towers. In a few minutes, there will be a vote for an important bill. I very much ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. 96th, Levechenko. Lechenko's missing. 97th, Bilkova. Don't insist. 98th, Martovitchki. Is he insisting? He insists. Please put to the vote the 98th Amendment of Martovitch. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:10:43]] For-61 There is no need for support. 100th, Levenchenko. Lechenko's missing. 101st National Deputy Vojtsiecki. Is it insisting? Wojciek? Don't insist. Very good. So, dear fellows, we have passed all the amendments that have been recommended by the committee for consideration. And once again, the key and principle of them -- the 38th amendment -- was taken into account by the committee during the review. The Special Committee recommends that the bill be voted on, and this is also a big request from the government that we adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. And that's why I'm going to put him to the vote. There is, please, the last line from the committee, please. And in the meantime, the national MPs come into the hall, and we prepare for the vote. Please, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u142	Is this a simple bill? I'd say it's extremely complicated. Has much work been done on it? There's a lot of work to do. We worked with the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, we worked with ministries and departments, we went to some agreed position. But once again, he would point out that the adoption of this bill is leading us to make sure that we change the laws on heating supplies. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please prepare to take up your jobs. It's a lot of work, and it's really a committee, and it's the people's deputies for the bill. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the financial stability of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine (2214) is put to the vote. Please vote in the second reading and in general. Please vote. May I have your support, national deputies, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u144	Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:13:08]] For 216 And who didn't make it? All right, colleagues, listen very carefully. Attention, colleagues! The draft law was carefully considered. The draft law is extremely important. We know this because it's not one day we're doing this job. Please invite MPs, let's consult, colleagues. Please, ready, ready? Please, colleagues, return to the hall. Colleagues, I'm about to put a question to the vote for the return. To return. Ready. Please come back. Please be supportive. Please vote for the return. Please support your return. Please. Please. [[13:14:19]] For 225 To return. The card doesn't work alone. To return. It didn't work. Please, colleagues, get ready. Please come back, we vote. To return. For your return, please. On your return, please support. [[13:15:02]] For 233 Thank you. Now, as a whole, in the second reading, we are voting, colleagues. Please, let's vote. Yes, in the second reading as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Second reading as a whole. [[13:15:24]] For 243 And now everyone stays where they are. Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, 1195. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for terms of return of fixed-term deposits). Also important law, yesterday we discussed it on the Council of Coalitions, second reading. Please, the head of the committee, Paul Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u145	Good afternoon. Congratulations, dear colleagues. Today, you are looking at draft Law 1195 in your second reading: on the settlement of the maturity of the deposit returns. Let me remind you, the fundamental essence of this law. To date, all the contributions made by de facto individuals are on demand. And so 70 percent of the banking system's resources are a requirement that prevents banks from essentially lending long-term projects. The bill proposes to regulate and make deposits on demand, time and time with the possibility of a timely return. This bill was supported by the majority in the first reading, and there were 14 proposals for rights, 3 of which were taken into account, one which was essentially not supported by 10, a deviation. These 10 amendments, which they failed to take into account, were one of the perpetuating points of the law, and the other proposals were regulated by other articles of the Ukrainian Civil Code. It is proposed to support the bill as a whole. There have been amendments, including those that are included, from the Radical Party of Laška, from the People's Front, I would like to highlight that, and non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we have heard a report from the head of the profile committee. I think we can vote on the second reading of the bill. Please, colleagues, take your seats. You have before you the draft Law (Registration No. 1195) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on terms of return. Colleagues, in second reading and in general. You heard the committee's position. He's well-worked, we work. Colleagues, please prepare to vote in second reading and in general. Vote, colleagues, prepare for second reading and 1195 as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. Are we all ready to vote, colleagues? Vote. [[13:18:32]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows. 2105 draft Act amending Ukraine's Child Protection Act and "On the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection" on State support for anti-terrorists and their children for education. As reported by John Sporish, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s subcommittee, profiled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, Bill 2105 is proposed for your consideration. Since the bill deals with the education of participants and their children, when preparing the draft for second reading, the committee cooperated with the bill’s author, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lília Greenevich. The bill, first of all, proposes that instead of listing all categories of persons who are involved in hostilities, a reference be made to article 6, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. It is also proposed to extend the category of persons who have the right to state-of-the-art support for vocational and higher education by adding to these categories: children whose parents died in the area of anti-terrorist operations or in mass action, civil protest; children registered as internally displaced persons. In addition, it is proposed to grant the stated State-specific support to children who are being trained in the daily form of vocational and higher education at vocational and vocational institutions until they have completed their studies, but not more than 23 years old. The committee also proposes to identify specific forms of state-of-the-art support for participants in hostilities and their children, as well as to duplicate them in higher education and vocational and technical education laws. In accordance with the requirements of standard-setting technology, it is proposed to change the title of the bill to "a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on State support for participants in hostilities and their children, children whose parents died in the area of anti-terrorist operations, hostilities or armed conflict, or in mass civil protest actions, children registered as internally displaced persons, to obtain vocational and higher education." There were 14 amendments to the bill. I'm going to say that the 10 amendments taken into account are just three amendments that are rejected, and then they carry the kind of content that might have been rejected. We have rejected the amendments of some national MPs, and I ask for the support of this bill. By the way, they were present on the committee of ministries, departments and others, all unanimously supported the bill of Lilia Greenevich. That's why I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u148	Finish up, please. Everything? Please, Your Honor, there is a proposal to support this bill in the committee's decision. You heard the report of the head of the subcommittee. So if there's no objection, I can see they're gone, we can go to the vote. So, dear colleagues, we take our seats. Draft Act (Registration No. 2105) amending the Ukrainian Laws on Protection of Childhood and "On the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection" (for the State Support of Counter-Terrorism Workers and Their Children for the Purpose of Education). The committee's proposal is in second reading and in general. Please vote, colleagues, second reading and in general. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:23:59]] For 217 Dear colleagues! Let's return, colleagues, please support an important bill. Return to the vote. Please be careful. I, by the way, have a surprise for you: we have top leaders visiting all the time, the very fresh news on the official website that visits, every day that votes. We'll make a leader's rating. It's gonna be easy. And there will be a prize. The prize will be popular sympathy from the media. I think they'll help us explain this activity. Please vote in favour of a return to 2105. Please vote for the return. [[13:25:18]] For 234 They voted for the return. And now we vote in second reading and in general. And I would like to support an important draft of the Child Protection Act, the amendment of laws, and the status of war veterans. Please vote. Vote, colleagues. [[13:25:44]] For 245 That's better. 245. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Draft Act (Registration No. 0932) amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the level of social protection of war veterans. He will report to the first deputy head of the committee of profile, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u149	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Your second reading proposes a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the level of social protection of war veterans under registration number 0932. The bill was adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 3, 2014. Let me remind you of the basics of this bill. First. Allow families who are heirs of a deceased disabled person to keep a car with which a disabled person was provided for life in the form of humanitarian assistance, regardless of the term of use of such a car. The other one. Grant wartime participants and persons with disabilities the right to receive an additional pay leave of 14 calendar days per year. Third. To clarify the reasons for establishing the status of a participant in hostilities to certain categories of persons, particularly those involved in the direct execution of mine action tasks. For a second reading of the bill, there were 16 suggestions. All offers are included. A comparative table for the second reading of the bill is being prepared by the General Legal Office with several observations. It should be noted that this socially oriented bill awaits thousands of war veterans and disabled families. It is supported by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and by trade unions. At a meeting of the Committee on Veterans, Actors, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities on 11 February this year, it was decided to approve the comparative table of the bill under Registration No. 0932 and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it on second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, there is a clear proposal by the head of the committee, the deputy head of the committee, the first deputy: to vote in general for the draft law. As far as I can tell, there's no objection. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. We will now vote. (0932), honourable colleagues, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the level of social protection of war veterans. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please, colleagues, we're voting. We vote, colleagues, second reading and 0932 as a whole, on raising the level of social protection of war veterans, we vote in favour. [[13:29:15]] For 221 Thank you. I'm asking you to come back, please. Please vote in favour. [[13:29:46]] For 219 Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u151	I'm talking to my coalition colleagues. Maybe you didn't get the point of this bill? This is true of disabled families who were given cars and then died. After death, they would have to turn them back. Oftentimes these cars were provided as humanitarian aid, so we suggest that these cars remain after the death of the heirs in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u152	Thank you for your clarification. Please, colleagues, for the return of 0932, there was simply no understanding of the essence of the law. Please vote in favour of return 0932. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[13:31:14]] For 255 Thank you. Decision taken. Please 0932 in second reading and in general according to the committee's decision. In general, we vote on this bill in the second reading and in general. [[13:31:46]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, we've been with you before. Yuri Lucenko, please make an offer. National MP Spiowakovsky. Dear colleagues, you and I have reached a decision of 2599, 2599-1, the Peter Dustenka Block. Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please. There is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure: 2599, 2599-1. It was you and I who made the decision in the morning. For short notice, please, colleagues. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:33:05]] For 175 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u153	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, we are not simply voting on the Law on Restrictions on the Status of Rector of the University. In fact, the issue of overcoming corruption in our universities is now being resolved. So it has historically been said that the position of Rector of the University, and according to current legislation, under the current Higher Education Act, actually allows the Rector of the University to manage all the resources of the university, including academic, financial, human, material, intangible resources and so on. Therefore, we need to resolve the issue of keeping the person who has been given the opportunity to be a rector clean before the law. So it's happened that, in today's edition of the Higher Education Act, unfortunately, the qualification requirements for getting a chance to run as a Rector have not been resolved. And here we have a contradiction that the minister should allow people with such a reputation to wade. In this case, a person who's going to be a chancellor of the university and gets 50 percent plus 1, the minister has and is going to have an automatic contract. This is a contradiction with the generally accepted legislation. So, if we want respectable colleagues, so that not only the children of ordinary people learn in Ukrainian universities, but also your children, and the children of rich people, the children who are now studying abroad, at Ukrainian universities, we need to make the system of Ukrainian education effective. And effectively, that means no corruption. So I ask you to support this bill in general and take the first step towards overcoming corruption in Ukrainian higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Do you need to talk about the bill? There's a need. Please two for, two for, two for, no, please sign in. Please. Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Chernenko gives the word to the head of the Jury Lucenko faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u155	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, our faction supports this bill. We really think that being a rector -- a person who teaches a new generation to live in a new country -- has to be irreprehensible before the law. But I think it would be right after the Dignity Revolution to complete another rule: the Rector must be a person who did not vote in favour of the dictatorship on January 16 in this room. With this amendment, please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u156	Thank you. The word is given to Bondar Mikhail, the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u157	Please give me the word of Teteruku Andria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u158	The People's Front faction will vote in favour of Bill 2599 and invites all deputies to join the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u159	Dear Society, the bill is proposed to vote on the basis of the first reading. I'd like the deputies to take up their jobs. Please prepare for the vote. This is the first reading. Let's vote with Lucenka's amendment, although we understand that this is the first reading, between the first and the second readings were amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u160	All in all, yeah, with Lucenka's amendment? There is a proposal to vote in general, but with the amendment made by Yuri Lucenko, who was listed under the transcript. If there's general support for the hall, we'll put it to a vote. Is there no objection? Is there any backup?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u161	We're working. So the draft of Law 2599-1 on the basis and in general, as amended by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka, please vote. [[13:38:24]] For 226 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Let's move on, dear fellows. 2493: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. The rapporteurs asked for this law. Is there a Parthenenko? All of it. All right, colleagues, 2464. Why don't you say so? 2464: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. Reported the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Dmitry Parfenenko. There is an offer by the author to review the draft law by a reduced procedure. Under the reduced procedure, identify yourself. [[13:39:57]] For-151 Please report the bill from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The Act on Privatisation, in particular the Act on Privatisation of State Enterprises, contains a rule that makes it imperative to fine-tune large enterprise shares in the privatization process and to inculcate small shares of 5-10 per cent for sale on the stock market in order to determine the market value of objects proposed for privatisation. It's found in practice that this norm doesn't work, this kind of decomposition, first leads to stock dispersion, and secondly, it's artificially prolonging privatization processes. Therefore, it is proposed that this rule be removed, and with a view to reviving the stock market, I would like to point out that all plans for the placement of shares and the conditions for the privatization of large enterprises are necessarily approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was agreed on by the economic policy committee. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u163	Thank you very much, Dmitri Mikolaiovich. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. I can see it's not in Ivanchuk's room, so I think we can. Is that right? Can I have a seat, please? Turn on the microphone from where Andriy Volodymyrovich will give his principled position on this bill, please. Andrew Volodymyrovich, Ukraine awaits your word. From the rostrum? From the rostrum, please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u164	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill at its February 4th meeting and decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u165	Thank you for the thorough report! Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss it, is that what I see? Well, then, let's write "for" is "against". And I'd like you to record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Peter Prashenko's Block, Musak Alexei Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! In its time, 5-10 percent were introduced to estimate the cost of the company, because there was no market at the time, no investment or financial analysts. Now we've got all of the enterprise evaluation methods: show me what balance, show me your financial values. And there are a lot of companies that appreciate international, including how much this company costs. So please support this bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u167	Thank you very much. The Badger of the Radical Party passes the word Halasyuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction supports this bill in its first reading. Instead, I want to highlight two very important points. First of all, by simplifying, by cleaning up this stock-packing rule, by putting them out to determine the price on the stock market, we're simplifying the privatization process. This needs to be done, but there should not be a threat to the quality of determining the price of such packets. Therefore, the role of independent evaluators in determining the value of these stocks needs to be strengthened, competition in the Ukrainian market needs to be ensured, in order for non-foreign companies to carry out this assessment, and for all companies in Ukraine to do so to be responsible for this assessment and to be objective. And secondly, it is very important that the Radical Party faction consistently insists that the privatization of not all public property objects is to take place, but only those objects that will bring much more tax into the hands of a private investor. Because there are objects that are simply inefficiently managed today, and there needs to be management, not selling everything, especially when there is the least price on the market. In a falling market, only a fool sells everything out. That is why we support this bill in the first reading. Instead, we insist on his further reading and a very careful approach to preserving those objects that are subject to privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u169	Thank you very much. Obviously, all the corrections, the comments, we'll be able to work on the committee. And that's why we're only voting on the basis. This is also the recommendation of the profile committee. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, number 2464. People's deputies please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the basis of the first reading of Bill 2464. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[13:46:16]] For-200
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u170	Yes, hello, colleagues. Let's go back. Invite MPs. Colleagues, please return 2464. We vote for the return to this law. Yeah, on my way back. Let's go back and then figure out what we're going to do about it. [[13:47:07]] For-198 The factions. No votes. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u171	Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to highlight a very important point. This rule, which is now in force in the law, is actually lowering the price of the property that is being put on privatisation, because the artificial fragmentation of the stock packages makes it less expensive. So you have to figure out the cost of these packets through independent evaluators, who are chosen on competitive principles, and then sell those packets. Do you understand? Therefore, we need to support the bill in its first reading and work on it for the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u172	Yeah. That's just the basis. Thank you. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I would like to vote in favour of this law. It's very simple. What's 5 percent of the stock worth selling? What value does it present to the buyer? None. And it's just a way of underestimating the value of the property that's offered for sale. Therefore, the repeal of this standard is quite obvious. But I would like to make a warning about what a change is preparing for privatization, and the privatization law contains serious gaps that relate to transparency of procedures. Regrettably, I have to say that the law in force has rules that allow for the purpose of selling objects, and we need to correct those standards. But this does not apply to the law. So my proposal goes up to the next one. Go back and vote on the law. At the same time, entrust the government to develop amendments to the Privatisation Act, which relate to transparency of procedures and maximum price. I ask my colleagues to return to the law and vote for its adoption in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u174	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk. Colleagues, invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to comment briefly on the situation under the bill, and I would also like to ask you to return to its consideration. We balanced our interests on the committee, and we made a decision that the second reading was necessary, really. Make all the corrections that the previous speakers have said. So, Mr. Head, I ask you, in view of the fact that the MPs have not been able to vote, to go back to the draft of the bill and to vote on it in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, colleagues, we have heard the arguments. This is about this bill being voted on as a basis. Please, let's vote for the return.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u177	Please vote in favour, please enter the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? We vote in favour of the return to the vote on Bill 2464, please support, vote. [[13:50:44]] For the 220. The MPs didn't make it in. And once again, I'm asking a colleague of the people's deputies from the towers to come into the hall to their workplaces, to their cards so that we can have a full vote. I ask the secretariat to invite members to the vote. Please focus, prepare. Once again, I put to the vote, to return to the vote for Bill 2464. Please vote, please vote. [[13:51:36]] For 217
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I have an offer on this one. There's a proposal for Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to put the bill to the vote 16 times. Dear colleagues, there's an offer on this note to announce that we're finishing our work and continue it at 4:00. So I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The evening meeting will take place at 4:00. Thank you.
