ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. We're starting, dear colleagues, our work, please. Please turn on the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national MPs. [[10:06:14]] Ladies and gentlemen, 303 national deputies are registered in the hall. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, yesterday marked our colleague's birthday, Nadia Savchenko celebrated her birthday. Our true hero, the only colleague we have today. [[Applause]] Which is now in terrible conditions, it was actually captured in captivity, and today illegally held there, our true heroine, who in all the long hours, days and months of captivity is proof that Ukraine will win. It is with you that our colleague, Nadia Savchenko, chooses our independence by his endurance every day. And I think that the best gift to this birthday from our colleagues is going to be two things. First, we'll do everything we can to get Hope released. And the Ukrainian Parliament will do everything to be successful so that the country develops so that the decisions we make are qualitative. I think all of this will give strength not only to Ukrainian society but also to our colleague, Nadia Saucenko. Let's say hello again. Hope, happy birthday! [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. Let's also welcome, today, our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, Mr. Berezhkin Stanislav Semenovich. Let's say hello. Welcome, my dear fellow. Eugene Borisovich Geller. Welcome, Eugene Borisovich. Oleg Stepanovich Musei. Welcome, colleague. Ruslan Mikolaiovich Solvar. Congratulations, Ruslan Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this Tuesday, and according to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes of speaking from groups and factions. And before we start the recording, I would like to refocus your attention on the discipline in the hall, on the attention in Parliament's work, as we agreed with you, with faction leaders that we will maintain the proper level of discipline and order in the hall. Please, Your Honor, 30 minutes to record from factions and groups. Thank you, Your Honor. We agreed on the Conciliation Council, we all agreed that we would give the first speech to Julius Volodymyrni Timoshenko, and she will address Hope Saucenko in her speech, including. So please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and then the representative of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! I may know what it's like to celebrate my birthday behind bars with Yuri Lucenko. And I want to tell you that, in fact, on this day, the prisoners, the executioners, are doing their best to make sure that on this very day all the bitterness that can be gathered together is for someone who is behind bars, who is being bullied, and who is having a conditional holiday. I want to turn to Hope now, because I'm sure she'll get all the transcripts that are going to come out today. I want to say thank you so much and welcome to my birthday! Because her birthday, and even what the lawyers say, with enough inspiration and spirit raising, celebrated her, was another severe blow to Putin. Because hope was not broken, did not give up, did not give up, did not abandon her will, did not abandon her fighting qualities. It's standing in iron concrete. It is almost constantly moving from hunger to scarce food intake. She's spanking every day, she's fighting for Ukraine every day. A girl who already weighs 47 kilograms [47 kg] and is a stronger Putin on her head. She's got a stronger aggressor on her head. Because they're so weak, they're just afraid to let her out. And it is so strong that it continues to inspire all who want to fight for Ukraine and who are actually fighting for Ukraine. She's a unique person, believe me. Because of her endurance, no man behind bars, a political prisoner, was hungry as much as she was hungry. No man, a political prisoner behind bars, spoke publicly as many correct words as she said against dictators, aggressors, and prisoners. It holds the flag of Ukraine in a state of overcrowding, inhumane conditions. And that's why I want to address each and every one of you right now. Each of you is meeting with international organizations, with the leaders of all levels of other countries, I ask you not to be tired of raising the question of the liberation of Hope Savchenko, Senzov and other of our political prisoners, of our fellow prisoners from behind bars, we have the Minsk Accords, which directly foresee it. I ask you not to get tired of talking publicly about Nadia and everyone else having to be released. Today, all the leaders of the key countries of the world are negotiating with Putin on the release of hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u3	Please finish, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u4	And I believe that just as peace will come to our land, so will all those who are illegally held behind bars in Russia. Glory to Ukraine! Hail Hope of Savichenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u5	Please, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, the Opposition Block. Comrades, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine celebrated the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. Last week was marked by calls for reconciliation on the sides of the past conflict. The historic mission of our Parliament is to reconcile Ukraine with part of the Donbas today, not 70 years later, to our descendants. Therefore, we once again urge Parliament to proceed immediately with the implementation of the peace agreements signed in Minsk. The Opposition Block has developed a road map of peace. It includes ten laws that need to be adopted in order to bring life back to normal in a conflict zone. We come from the fact that the vast majority of Ukrainians want peace. Everyone, both in Donbas, in Lviv, in Kharkiv, and in Odessa, is tired of this war. We are the only people, and we have nothing to share. And the sooner we gain peace, the sooner those who start a war will perish, the more painful and hurt the hearts of the Ukrainians in the West and the East. We are opposed to military rhetoric being used as a fund to cover up corruption scandals. Because in recent times it has been easy to hear who stole more from the government. So we support the creation of the TSC, which was proposed by the ruling coalition. We're going against that. Today, we can boldly say that we are moving, not to Europe, but to the poorest countries in Africa. The decline in the standard of living of humans is about how to survive at all. The government has forgotten its obligations to humans and, above all, to pensioners. The government's attempt to predict all the consequences of its economic downturns on people's pockets is the clearest demonstration of the diluteness and skill of this team. Therefore, the Opposition Block has developed and requires a review of the programmes of priority measures for stabilizing the situation in the economy, including the indexation of pensions and allowances, the increase in aid to the poor, the cancellation of unwarranted tariffs and the reduction of unemployment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u7	Please, National Deputy Kulinich, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u8	Oleg Kulinic, Rebirth Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! As many of you have spent the last two weeks, my colleagues and I in the Rebirth Group have met with the voters in numerous ways. At each meeting, people talked about the pain. Of course, the most important thing for people right now is peace and peace in our country. But there are many references to social and economic problems in the country. Of course. The most difficult is for veterans, disabled people, and elderly people. I want to focus today on extremely important social issues — pensions, utility payments and subsidies. The current system of municipal tariffs is socially unfair. I received numerous appeals from all parts of the Poltava region. People in the country are having a hard time. Let me give you some real examples of Zhenkovsky and Mirgorod regions in the region of Poltava. A single pensioner receives a pension of 1,050 dollars. For utilities in April, he paid 780 dollars, which is only April of the month. It's hard to say it's going to be autumn. There is also something to eat and some medicine to be obtained. It's a village. You can't pay for a utility like in the city, because they'll come and cut the house off of gas. How Can People Survive? With subsidies in general, it's a disaster: there's a huge number of complaints about the process of processing them. Numerous aids must be provided, and officials, tax collectors, and landowners can be remunerated. And fines for misfilling the declaration. This is a matter that needs to be resolved. My colleagues and I from Rebirth Group have registered Project 2676-1, which is proposed, except for the automatic collection of subsidies, to prohibit citizens from collecting fines for misfilling income declarations for expenses. Also, I received a letter from members of the Rechetil district veterans’ organization in the Poltava region, in which they directly asked: What is the blame for the people who became hostages to the Cabal conditions of the mechanism? Recently, the Supreme Council adopted a law that has significantly worsened the material situation of working pensioners. I personally opposed that decision. A particularly painful blow was caused by this law to pensioners in rural areas, where living standards are lower than in urban areas. By the beginning of 2015, 1 in 5 people in rural areas had worked. But they work, not from a good life, but from a meager pension. So my colleagues and I have drafted a bill of 2780, which provides for the abolition of the temporary limitation on the payment of pensions for individual categories of working pensioners, namely, persons with disabilities I, II and III groups, persons whose working hours are 45 years or more for women, 40 years or more and other categories. The members of the Rebirth Group ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of all projects relating to the review of the current pension system and the counting of subsidies. In addition, for the next two weeks, we are working with you in the session room, let's set aside one day and fully devote ourselves to his social issues, solving subsidies and tariffs. Because each faction has the right supply and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u9	People's Front, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by joining the words already made here by Julia Volodymirovna Timoshenko, to the address of Hope Savchenko. Savchenko’s hope is apparently already a symbol of strength, courage, integrity and devotion to Ukraine. You and I should at least get a little closer to the level of such devotion to Ukrainian interests, and the next two weeks that you and I have in session, we should show you an example of a coherent and important – effective work for the country. I would like to inform you that the government has now arrested 1.4 billion dollars in the accounts of the Ukrainian banks that belonged to the family and, in particular, Viktor Yanukovic himself. It's a pretty serious sum and it's a pretty serious success. And today we have to return these funds to the state budget of Ukraine, so that we can continue to secure the payment of these funds stolen from the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians. This can be done immediately after the prosecutor’s office and the court have decided to confiscate Janukovic’s funds, which have been arrested by the government today, and the government will redistribute them for the benefit of the poor. The second theme that is a priority for our faction is tariffs and subsidies. That's the right thing to do. We need to adopt a new law on NCRE KP today, make it as transparent, as public as possible, so that every single piece can be understood what the tariffs are. Because it is this body that is now responsible for the formation of tariffs. The next topic is one of the priorities. We need to speed up the adoption of a package of police laws, of a new Ukrainian police force, so that people can feel a direct change in the Ukrainian law enforcement system, that the police have finally started working for the Ukrainian people, not to serve someone else's interests. That is why we need as soon as possible, we ask both the committee and colleagues from most of the five bills as quickly as possible, to speed up their consideration. The next question, too, is very principled. Local elections are approaching. We have not yet begun a real reform of the electoral system. We have a standard in the Coalition Agreement -- we promised this to people -- about open-list elections. And we have these choices to ensure. And the last. You know that we have here, from this rostrum, repeated accusations of corruption. Obviously, these charges must be answered. We ask that the working group that was set up in Parliament report the results of its work honestly on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u12	What the facts have been revealed by the working group. Similarly, we ask the Attorney General’s Office to prepare the Attorney General with a report directly made by the Attorney General’s Office, the facts of corruption and corruption, including the previous authorities. We were promised to remove the MP's in touch, and we want to finally hear the names and the specifics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u13	Thank you. Please "self-help", Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u14	Self-help suggests that people who are responsible for protecting the law in Ukraine and for defending Ukraine either start giving results or go to court. We have a question for the Minister of Internal Affairs. How many scandals does his deputy Chebotar have to have him retired? How long does it take for society to see that Zacharychenka's militia and its high-ranking leaders remain in the Ukrainian militia after Eromaydan? We have a question for the Attorney General. When we wait for the submission. You don't want to call these people parliamentarians who have been elected to Parliament criminals, whose crimes we've been talking about for the first year as journalists, as a society, now as if as a new authority? We have one more question for the Attorney General. What kind of special operation is being prepared by June 6th in order for people like Sergey Kluev, like Olena Lukash, like Dmitri Tobacco, to receive indulgence from the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and to be able to feel at ease in Europe? For over a year and a half, the European Union has been waiting for the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office to ask questions about these ladies and ladies about their violation of the law, that there will be no other way to remove them from the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We demand that this decision be taken immediately by the Attorney General. A great request, a request to the Commander-in-Chief. How much can be said of impeachment, the inadequacy of Victor the Man of his high office as Chief of Staff, in fact the Chief of Staff? We're waiting for new boilers, are we waiting for new defeats? The President knows better than we do that the system of creating new fortifications is now broken. That's a huge amount of money. But it's not happening or it's happening behind, it's happening later. In the face of Mariupol’s failure or the traitors of the General Staff, is the supposed hole specially intended for Russian troops to enter or for what? We have a huge request to all of our fellow Members of Parliament who have not given up and have not been reconciled. We know that today people are willing to take tariffs, stand ready to take a heist course, stand ready to accept pension cuts only if they see that we are actually building a new state. Let's do this in an incoherent way. And either walk out of Parliament, or drive out those people who maintain corruption in their positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I will not open the news again if I repeat that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working under two major threats to Ukraine's national future. The first threat is military action on the part of the occupied Ukrainian Donbas. And the second threat is the towing of the reforms for which this Parliament has been elected. Peter Poshenko's Block welcomes the actions of the President and the government to strengthen the country's security. It's quite a bit on the front. But we urge you to increase the rigidity of the passes along the line of delimitation. We are focusing on the creation of the Donbas Reconstruction Agency, which is primarily designed to stop immediately the occupation trade in Crimea and Donbas, which is designed to stop the social payoffs of those who work with the fighters. This is to be done by counting people who have taken refugee status but who continue to live in occupied areas using Ukrainian social benefits. Finally, we need to put order in place with pensions of 20, 30 cards arriving in Ukraine’s free territory. All of this has to be done by the Donbas Reconstruction Agency. And we urge the government to form it as quickly as possible. We also ask Parliamentary colleagues to support the War Status Act. Sadly, last plenary week ended badly. Everyone knows that after May celebrations, the likelihood of aggression spreading to another territory of Ukraine is very high. And yet, you and I went to work in the districts and out of the districts for two weeks, unfortunately, knowing that we didn't pass the War Status Act. This is a law that needs to be passed this week, for the country must be fully prepared for the most difficult, foolish plans of Putin. We also support the establishment of the Military Rule of Law Service, which is in the order of the day of this session. We support the government's economic bills on stabilizing Naftogazu, on privatization with the necessary amendments, on the basis of factions, etc. Colleagues, another Ukrainian front, is the front of the fight against corruption. In this regard, we urge Parliament to fulfill its responsibility and form, to elect members of the High Council of Justice. It is this body that finally ceases to be authorized by 29 judges who have abused Maidan and so far await our decision to form the Supreme Council of Justice with you. Any excuse is simply an unwillingness to order and clean up the judicial system! We are for other laws, including the termination of the mandate of the Constitutional Court, which has disgraced itself before Ukraine and the world. But the Higher Council of Justice must be formed! This is our direct responsibility! Thank you. Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Andrew Derkach, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! Our "will of the people" group is made up of Marjorie MPs who, as no one can feel the needs of ordinary people, will make every effort to ensure that the coalition does not forget the deterioration of the lives of citizens through an active government, corruption in power, and the destruction of local self-government, the gulf, the village heads, and the slogans of economic and administrative reforms. Most of all, peasants, small towns, and pre - pensioners are now suffering. Therefore, on behalf of the House of Representatives Group, we demand an immediate review by the Supreme Council of draft laws that directly depend on the quality of life of ordinary citizens of Ukraine, namely: Bill 1086 on the retirement of women at the age of 55, to which the President of Ukraine applies the veto; Bill 1418 on the increase of up to 6 per cent of the annual rent for land use (pail); Bill 0901, adopted in the first reading on strengthening measures to combat falsification of dairy products, which also provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to set the threshold for milk prices, cannot be maintained at the rate of 220-2.50, if the dollar rate has tripled; Bill 1481 on settlement of questions from the dead inheritance. In addition, we want to refer to members of the parliamentary coalition with proposals, we don't create pyar drive and show on the stand and on the airs, as some coalition representatives do, who talk to people about understanding and hardships, while the buttons are pushing for worsening social standards and the appointment of "experts" ministers (in paws). Therefore, in order to avoid being accused of populism, we invite the coalition factions to agree together this week and to submit the following bills for consideration by the Supreme Council: the First Order on the Liberation of the Minister of Health of Kwiatashvili. In total, in five months of its activities, the country’s main esculpate did not take any appropriate steps to improve the functioning of medical facilities. A large number of Ukrainian citizens are denied the possibility of effective and affordable medical care because of their inaction in the certification of medical devices, the organization of vaccine purchases, drugs for diabetics, and so on. Next is the decision to release Pauline from office as minister of agricultural policy and food. Because of his disregard for the interests of the industry, there is no work to be done in support of the village. This is especially so in the field of animal production. The lack of activity of the minister is evident in the lack of attention to the process of shaping the price of milk for the population. In the event that the coalition is unable to submit appropriate reports on the release of the ministers of Kvetashvili and Pavlunka, the MP group "The Will of the People" will bring them in on its own by the end of the week. We are convinced, colleagues, of our right, and we know that the representatives of the coalition and the non-fractional MPs have many questions for these ministers. But in that case, as we know in the dirty proverb. You don't have to move the bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u19	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u20	In this case, as in a dirty proverb, you should not move the bed, but change the minister in your super public, Facebook government or at least start doing it in a particularly critical way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u21	Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u22	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to draw the attention of all society to the subject of the earth, a question that has always been extremely important to the country. Today, the highest levels of government have resumed discussions about the removal of the moratorium on agricultural land, the introduction of a land market that seems to enable investors to be involved, the introduction of billions of investments, and the flow of milk rivers with acid banks. I warn Ukrainian society that the establishment and sale of the so-called land market is a crime against the Ukrainian people. Those who today call for the sale of land are enemies of the Ukrainian people. In fact, the sale of land is the last wave of the oligarchization of Ukrainian society. Today, Ukrainian citizens, peasants, are being led to poverty. There is no work, no wages, no social sphere, no opportunity to sell products, so people are willing to sell their land for cash. The oligarchs of the Ukrainian, foreign oligarchs want to take advantage of this and take away the last thing in the Ukrainian people is their land. We celebrated the 70th anniversary of Victory in the war on Fascism. I want to remind those who want to sell Ukrainian land that the Hitlerites exported Ukrainian black people abroad with echelons. Today, we are invited by the Ukrainian black people to sell for a penny so that the peasants who were brought to despair will give up their land for nothing. This is an opportunity for those who buy our land for nothing, then have billions and billions of dollars. The Radical Party faction refers to the President, to the government, to those with whom they are conducting these criminal consultations on the restoration of the sale of land, we strongly deny the sale of land. We think there should be land leases, they have, give peasants cheap loans, support farms, not latifunds. Allow me to sell my produce instead of Chinese straw, Chinese Greek and so on and so forth. And any normal person sells, not the land, but the goods that grow on this earth. Because if we sell this land, what are we selling tomorrow? In Kyrgyzstan, gold was once given to the Americans. Today, Americans have incomes from these gold fields, and kirgyzki paws suck. We are offered to do the same: to give away for free the most precious things we have. I call on Parliament not to be allowed to rob the Ukrainian people, to have an affair of the millennium, to sell the land! No, no, not again!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, 30 minutes has been exhausted. People's deputies of Ukraine please take their seats. We're moving on to the agenda, the bills that are scheduled for Tuesday, according to the schedule that was agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule, we have a number of questions for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm stressing that this is a question that we need to include for the previous one to consider the order of the day session. Next, committees, next, schedule for. The Conciliation Board, then the first reading, the second reading, and so on. So please, dear fellow Members, there is an offer. We have a number of bills, there's a proposal, it's been discussed, it's been discussed on the Conciliation Council to get these bills all included in one vote. I'm going to read now, this is the President's initiative, this is the initiative of the government, also of the national MPs, which have been submitted by the committees to date according to the procedure. So please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to announce the number of these bills that are posted on a site that isn't the first day there, and we're going to be able to go through them in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please, Your Honor. Please, colleagues. 2742, draft law, introduced by the President. 2743, 2770, 2642 is government. 2772, 2660, 2679, 2654, 2787, 2744, 2644, 2669, 2669-1, 2771, 2643, 2659, 2768, 2769, 2661, 2658, 2657, 2767, 2775, 2777, 2804, 2781, 2178, 2423, 2447, 2426, 2482, 2394 and 2054. I emphasize that these are issues that are included in the agenda of the entire session. We will continue to consider them according to positions. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote on the inclusion of issues in the agenda of the session. Please prepare for the vote, honourable colleagues, for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of draft laws that have been announced, they are all agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. Vote, Your Honor, please. Please, we vote, Your Honor! [[10:40:49]] For 214 Please be prepared, dear fellows. Get ready, please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. Pinzenik, Block of Petra Dustyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The warnings generated by voting on the list in our faction are contained in two bills — 2643 and 2649. There is a request to remove them from the general list, and then the faction will unanimously support all the bills by one vote. 2643 and 2679.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u25	Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, please prepare. By minus 2643 and minus 2679, in general, the ones that I have announced for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please prepare, please vote. Please support me, colleagues, to vote against the proposal announced by Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. Please be supportive. [[10:42:00]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u26	Sobolje, Fatherland. We have a request: since it's in the 2426-d daily order, it's about the indexation there on individual payments, including alimony and so on, in relation to the inflation rate, 2747 include which is foreseen, the MP's, and the indexation on other payments. This is our great request, which is, And the second, 2674, which is directly related to the VAT pension, 2682, is sorry. Yes, I repeat: 2747,2682. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u27	Thank you. Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to remind my colleagues that the government bills, the whole package, are necessary, their approval is necessary for the approval of the second tranche of the International Monetary Fund. I want to remind you that this government package has been worked out, particularly by the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance, as I understand it, is a representative of the Peter Dusty Block. I think that this vote first for the agreed-upon package of introductions to the agenda was caused by the absence of members of the room. The proposal: re-voting, mobilizing MPs, is to include in the agenda those bills that the government has tabled and which have been drafted, including the Coalition Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Colleagues ready to vote? So once again, just one more minute, I'm stressing the voting order. People's deputies, please take your seats in the hall. People's deputies, please take your seats in the hall. Dear colleagues, once again, the ones I have announced under the transcript, except for those suggestions made by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no? Oh, no? No, I'm good. Let me ask you, colleagues, let's do it this way, we've agreed on proposals for presidential, governmental, parliamentary projects. They are now in the order of the day session. They went to the Conciliation Council right now, and we agreed. We only accept them for consideration. Next, we will decide on the vote. So we're going to figure out what to do next. Otherwise we won't be able to continue our work right now. So please, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare. Yuri Vitaliovich! I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of those bills that I have heard about. Under the stenogram. Then we'll start looking at them and we'll decide about the vote, each faction separately. Let's start at least the procedure. I will then put to the vote a proposal to include additional issues that were not agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. They were not reconciled because they were not worked. Colleagues, please support the vote. I'm going to make an offer to Sobolev after the vote. Please support the vote by including in the agenda of the day session. Please, let's support it. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote. It's consistent with the transcript that was announced. And let's support -- let's continue our work. Colleagues, what are we blocking that we don't have to block?Oh, my God! [[10:45:51]] For 224 Oh, that's better! Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote again. Please vote, please support. Once again, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Vote, fellows! We will consider them in the order of the day session! You will continue to determine what to do with it, but now support it, please. [[10:46:13]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues! Include in the agenda of the day session. Please support me, colleagues. Let's do it again. It's consistent with the offer that was made under the transcript. Then I'll put 2747. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Colleagues! It's a day-to-day session, right! Now we're going to settle this question. Please support me, colleagues, and everyone from different groups and factions. Please don't block this work! Please, I'm addressing all groups and factions: this is a question of the order of the day session. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:47:28]] For 223 Okay. Dear colleagues, this question will need to be considered separately, and we will consider it again. Let us now consider the issues of the order of the day session. The first question is 2285: draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secrets (for the regime-secret authorities). The first deputy head of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection, Kornejko Alexander Vasilovich, reports. There is a suggestion that the reporter consider it as a reduced procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. This is about looking at the simplified procedure. [[10:48:21]] For 186 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u30	Please report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Your attention is drawn to the bill prepared by the State Department to amend the State Secrets Act. This law was introduced, amended, on March 27, 2014, and it was envisaged that the composition of the regime's secret agencies should necessarily include cryptographic and technical information protection units. But the specificity of these units is that they have appropriate sensitive technologies, or appropriate information protection algorithms and appropriate ciphers. The inclusion of units necessarily leads to a wider circle of people who have access to all ciphers and algorithms. So in a complex military-political situation, we think it's extremely dangerous. And it's proposed to make changes, that is to go back to the law that was in effect by March 2014. It should be noted that if necessary, information protection units may also be included in the departments of the secret authorities. The proposed bill was in agreement with the Ukrainian Security Service and other government authorities. I'd like to support you, gentlemen of the MPs, this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u32	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. From the ground or from the rostrum? From the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u33	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! The committee unanimously decided to support the bill. In fact, it's not a bill, it's an editorial regulation, a clarification that narrows down the circle of people admitted to state secrecy. And unfortunately, that's relevant. There is a tab, where one of the paragraphs is used to clarify persons who are admitted to state secrecy. We believe that this bill should be supported on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult. It's a specialized law that has little rights to the law in force. Is there a need to have a broad discussion, or can we vote immediately? Is there a need to discuss? Then please sign up: two for, two against. Please log in. Please, Fishbuck Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs to be supported, as this is absolutely necessary in today's realities. The fact is that the state secret of today, in fact, is owned by all our enemies, it cannot be allowed to continue. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u36	Thank you, please. Please, Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u37	The People's Front will also unanimously support this bill, because right now, when the guys are there on the front, they really need to be limited in access to public secrets. So I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Open this bill. What's it say? I'm talking to a special ops reporter. Exclusion, not include, but exclude from the list of classified authorities the cryptographic and technical protection of information. What are we doing?Oh, my God! Do you understand what we're about to vote on?Oh, my God! Do you realize that all specialty is now being built on cryptography?Oh, my God! And we're shutting it down? And you're talking about ATO? Are you talking about supporting the fighters? Please give us information on why you want cryptography, which is the basis of a specialty that, by the way, has not yet been developed in Ukraine, to be excluded. These units? So what's the logic in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u40	Thank you. At the end of the discussion, I will give the floor to Alexander Vasilovich. And now Mosiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party of Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u41	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. In fact, it's completely unclear why cryptography is removed from the list, and that's one thing. The other one. We're talking about protecting information. We're talking about state secrets. At the same time, we have lots of characters who trade it to the right and to the left. The history of Major Schlapkin, who with the key to Statehood, has left the territory of Ukraine, is not forgotten. It may be necessary to take a closer look at this. And plus, look at the personnel who have access to the state secret of a level of government connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u42	Thank you. Please give me a minute, Korneyk Alexander Vasilovich. Explain, answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u43	I'm reporting. By March 2014, there had been separate secret authorities dealing only with the protection of the State’s secret, and special liaison bodies dealing with the protection of information where the codes were. In March 2014, they were included in a single body. And it was all over the state, well, it's impossible to say that there were almost thousands of such organs in a special relationship. Then it is absolutely necessary for all secret authorities to create cryptographic information protection. It's useless, it's not necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. The point is, there are special liaison bodies that are specially created in Ukraine, no more than a thousand of them. And they're dealing exclusively with information protection. People who are allowed to code are small. As soon as we start creating these additional organs in the regime-secret authorities, closing them down, the circle of people becomes much more, and the information enters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u44	Thank you. Also, please give the head of the committee to explain the minute, the replica. Pashinski, please turn on the microphone, Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u45	I'm talking to some of my colleagues who've been paying attention to this. I'm explaining a simpler situation. There is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a covert unit here. And it's this law that we don't allow in the regime-secret unit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have a cryptographic department, you know? Having access, of course, from the Supreme Council to all the cryptographic points of the state. It's not that we're secreting cryptography, it's the other way around, it's more classified when we adopt this law. Because by law, if a person has access to a public secret, he will have access to cryptography accordingly. And unfortunately, we already have cases where people who are not in charge of state secrets are trying to get material and place it on their Facebook. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u46	Thank you very much. We were able to discuss the substance of the law in detail. I would like to point out that the committee is also recommended by the adopted law on the basis and in general, and the conclusion of the expert board recommends the adoption of the law as a basis. Are his recommendations to be accepted as a basis and in general, or just as a basis? Based on the base. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and prepare for the vote. Please approach the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. There's a proposal for a profile committee to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. We've just discussed this law, we've all expressed our positions, so it's a fair suggestion to vote on the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. You have been introduced draft Law No. 2285, draft law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act. Change to just one article. And there's a proposal for a profile committee to take it as a basis and as a whole. Please prepare and vote on the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on State Secrets on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[10:59:08]] For 241 Thank you, colleagues. The law is passed. A colleague’s proposal to reintroduce questions into the agenda of the day’s session is made. Everybody ready? Let's try again in the agenda of the day's session those bills that we announced. Once again, I'd like to invite everyone to the National Deputies Hall. Colleagues, pay attention! The bill introduced by the President: 2742 and 2743; government: 2770, 2642, 2772, 2660, 2679, 2654, 2787, 2744, 2644, 2669-1, 2771, 2643, 2659, 2768, 2769, 2661, 2658, 2657, 2767, 2775, 2777, 2804, 2781, 2778; these were already introduced by the members of the Supreme Council: 2423, 2447, 2426, 2482, 2394 and 2054. These are the laws that we put into the order of the day session. Then each of you will consider them on your own committees, and will be determined accordingly as to the decision-making process. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Dear colleagues, please prepare, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please vote accordingly, please vote according to what I have announced. Vote please, colleagues. Please back up! Colleagues, please stand by! This is the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please support, by pressing the pros button. [[11:01:49]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues, for concentrating. Then there was Sergey Sobolev's proposal, colleagues, I promised to put her to the vote. Law 2747, the draft Law, which was registered on 28.04, was the national deputy of Timoshenko. Please, 2747, identify yourself, colleagues. 2747. [[11:02:25]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. A draft Law (register No. 2461) has been introduced for your consideration, the draft Law on the Totality of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. Number 2461. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure, I ask you to identify yourself. [[11:03:05]] For-191 Decision taken. Next, please report. Kornejko Alexander Vasilovich, the first deputy head of the State Information Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Honorable Predestination! By 2014, the State Department of Special Communications and Information Protection had acted in accordance with the law that had been enacted in 2006. In 2014, when Russian aggression began, the new structure and new tasks of the service had to be identified, and a new law edition was adopted. In accordance with this law, first of all, all the members of the military and the chief of staff became members of the military. And second of all, we need to include a unit of government-feldery liaison that is currently part of the Ukrainian National Field Service. But in the course of 2006, the government service was constantly cut short by the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. For the time being, we have a total of 7 thousand,222 persons who do not allow us to include the special composition of the State’s Field Service in our composition. Therefore, we suggest that we determine and increase the number of our ministry by just 368. This will allow at the expense of the vacant persons who are and, in addition, at the expense of the members of the State’s Field Service, to increase our number to 7,000,595, of whom 6,000 were military personnel. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u50	Dear friends! According to the reporter, we now have a statutory number of 7,227 members of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection. As has already been said, the Feldjeger service has been handed over, an order of 900 people, with an internal census offering to increase to 7,000,595 persons. By the way, I'm pointing out that it's not in full quantity. According to the bill, the committee considered, unanimously made a decision, recommended on the basis and in general. Thank you for your understanding and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against, colleagues. Two for, two against, please sign in. The entry is only by Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u52	Igor Mosiyczuk. I don't have a speech, but the question to the reporter is, how many times will the hearing go up after the adoption of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. There's an offer again. There is a proposal to vote according to the committee's decision as a basis and as a whole. Draft Law 2461, draft Act on the totality of the State Office of Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please vote 2461, the draft Act on the totality of the State Service of Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please vote. Please support as a whole. [[11:07:46]] For 230 Decision taken. Colleagues, please be very careful with your work. Important decisions. Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, draft Law (Registration No. 2531) amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Report to the Deputy Secretary of Defense Mehed. There is a proposal by the author of the law: to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[11:08:33]] For 178. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! The draft Law (Registration No. 2531) was developed by the Ministry of Defence in order to strengthen control over the flow of information, including from the areas of the Anti-Terrorism Operation, to ensure resistance to technical intelligence, to make it impossible to listen to mobile devices, and to determine the coordinates of military personnel by radio intelligence. The draft instrument provides for the drafting of article 143 of the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in a new edition, which prohibits military service personnel from performing military duties, from using personal means of mobile communication in ATO areas, in emergency conditions, or during a special period in areas where hostilities are taking place. The ban extends to the military and other military forces involved in the operations. Permission to use such means is granted by the commander of the military. The draft act is agreed with 11 interested executive bodies and does not require financial expenditure from the budget. In view of the above, please support Bill No. 2531. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is Sergey Pashinsky, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, when I went to the rostrum after the performance, I heard such arguments in the hall. I just want to quote what this bill sounds like. What is the point of change? What is established in peacetime by the military commander in the ATO area and under emergency conditions is prohibited from using personal means of mobile communication, and decisions regarding the use of such means are made by the military commander. I know what they might say: that there are areas where only mobile communication and working is that so many opportunities to use mobile communication have saved people’s lives. And that's true, we've been looking at this law in quite detail. That is why we ask for his support in the first reading. We still have a similar bill. We're going to take all the wishes, the comments of the deputies -- and we're going to come up with a decision that, on the one hand, will secure our soldiers, because we know that the Russian Federation's radio technical intelligence units are working very actively, they're expanding both across our borders and within the territory of the terrorist organizations of the DNR, the LNR. On the other hand, I reiterate, the law provides for the commander’s permission to use mobile devices in exceptional cases. So please support in the first reading. We'll work it out and bring it into the hall as agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Is there a need for pros, colleagues? You don't? There's a proposal by the reporter and the head of the profiling committee to adopt this bill as a basis. Please submit to your vote a draft law (registration number 2531) amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Probable committee proposal: vote on the basis. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I vote on the basis. Please vote. On the ground! [[11:12:59]] For 243 The law was adopted as a basis. Thank you. Please, next draft of the law. Registration number 2154, prepared by National Deputy Irina Friz, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of personal wireless access devices. There is an offer by the author of the law to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[11:13:44]] For a hundred and Thank you. Please, Irina Fries. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by Bill 2154 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Internal Service Statute for the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of personal wireless devices. There are confirmed reports that a significant number of injuries to our troops have been caused by the use of conventional phones by our military personnel. The bill is designed to establish rules for the use of personal telecommunications devices owned by military personnel. During the drafting of the bill, we held consultations with representatives of NATO countries who supported the initiative, as well as with representatives of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, who also approved the bill. What is proposed? In general, it is suggested that wireless devices be allowed to be used, but some restrictions are imposed on their use, namely, to prohibit the use of devices that do not have a removable battery, since even in a disabled state they are a source of radiation. Give the commander a separation, i.e. the lowest chain of command, the right to allow the use of devices. The use of mobile phones by military personnel during the daytime is totally prohibited, along with teaching, combat, marching, and military transportation. It is possible to set up a telephone area at the location of the unit. The bill proposes to prohibit the use of telephones in direct contact with the opponent, but except for the loss of regular means of communication. The departmental commander stores battery batteries for the military personnel. This extra mass is 300-400 grams and does not limit its combat capabilities. This bill will increase the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, bring our army closer to NATO standards and, above all, save the lives of the military. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u60	As I said in my previous speech, these are two bills on one subject. The bill of the People's Deputy Frez detailed the procedure for the removal of batteries, the issue of batteries, and so forth. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we also recommend that we accept it in the first reading. And on the basis of two bills, they have to balance on the one hand the maintenance of the secrecy regime in the area of anti-terrorist combat operations; on the other hand, the possibility of using mobile devices is authorized. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for "against"? Yes, yes. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please. Please, People's Deputy Ribak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, our faction will vote in favour of this bill. This bill is really important. First, it will regulate and enable us to use mobile communications for our military personnel solely in view of their safety. We know more than one example when it was the use of devices, individual mobile devices, that caused serious consequences. So this bill is going to provide real security for the use of our military in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Alexander Djanchenko, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u64	Please pass to Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u65	People's MP, Markevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u66	The Self-Help faction will not support this bill. Although, of course, it is written professionally. We only need one amendment. That all of this happens at the request of a military commander, at his discretion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Comment by Sergey Pashinsky. I understand, a little misunderstanding. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u68	Colleagues, I'm pointing out that the ideology of this bill is giving all the powers to the commander of the unit, to the parentheses, to the department. It's written in black and white. So I'm going to the faction that you should support this bill. If you have a second reading note, we'll take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u69	We're then, I don't think there's a difference. Then when we vote, we'll just pay attention, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account the proposal of the self-help MP and all. Right? Is there any objection? Irina Friz, I can't see. I can't see. Is there any objection? There's no objection. Thank you. Please, Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u70	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. In theory, it's a perfectly correct bill. But there is reality. The reality is that our ATO troops are not equipped with special forces. Now that we're taking away your cell phone, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Defense, when will you provide 100 percent of our troops with special services? Because now, as the coordinator of ATO’s medical headquarters, I am absolutely responsible, the removal of the injured takes place exclusively on a mobile basis. This means that if we support our second reading at this time after discussion and our amendments, we will, in fact, not be able to contact our battalions, our hospitals. So give us a specific date when all our ATO military personnel will be provided with special services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u71	I think it's going to be hard to give an answer, a final date. But I would like to point out that the comment, as far as I understand the logic, is that it will be up to the commander to make a decision when it comes to disconnecting communication or conducting operations, or relocation or something else, so as not to challenge, to endanger the lives of our military personnel. Dear colleagues, here's a proposition: to vote on the basis of this bill, to take into account the proposal in preparation for the second reading of the People's Deputy Markevich, Self-Help, and thus to consider on the second reading. Yeah, do I get it? I mean, on the basis, once again, on the basis of the preparation for the second reading with the proposal of the People's Deputy Markevich. Right, prepare for the offer? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Once again, here's the deal. 2531, 2154, I'm sorry, 2154 accept as a basis, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account the proposal made by national deputy Jaroslav Markevich. And we're still going to agree to a second reading of everything as it should be, and we're going to have a common position. Do we have a deal? I'm asking for a basis for taking into account the suggestions. Please support me as a base. Vote please, colleagues. Colleagues, we're voting for 2154. Please support, on a base. [[11:23:19]] For 211 Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the question is that this draft law is to be accepted as a basis and, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account the proposals of the people's self-help MP. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u72	I'm addressing all the national MPs, my coalition colleagues. Once again, I support every single one of your performances, including the provision of communications. That's why these bills do not provide for a total ban, but just regulation, and I'm asking you to support it in the first reading. Once again, this law is necessary, we're losing people, because the Russian Federation's radio surveillance equipment is cynically using this data to kill and we can't help but respond to this threat. For the second reading, all comments made by the deputies will be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u73	Thank you. You heard the head of the profile committee preparing for the second reading. But I want to accept that an important law is that these means of communication are used as means of guidance. And we can lose, we will lose, don't give God, the lives of our soldiers just for this recklessness. Therefore, it should be supported in the first reading, as Sergey Pashinsky said, to prepare for the second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the deputies, so that this can be agreed upon. We accept it now, it doesn't work, we take it to work to prepare a quality law. So I'd like to support you. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote, national MPs! Please take your seats, it's an important bill, it's an important bill! Please, everyone, take your seats. The proposal to vote this bill on the basis that we're going to work with you on the second reading. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Then let's go back to voting on the basis. Let's, colleagues, go back and vote, on a base, language is just a basis, a return. Please support, for your return, please support, we vote for colleagues. It's a very important question, please support. [[11:25:58]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Let's not lose such a serious draft of the law, shall we send it in preparation for the second one, or shall we vote again? Let's get him to work on the subject, the national MP, work on it, move it. Andrew Kožemiakin, please, Andrew Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I agree with those speakers who say that, indeed, order the use of personal devices, wireless access, and mobile phones can always be provided by a very professional unit commander, a unit commander. Unfortunately, though, there is no such thing in the ATO today, so this bill solves three questions. The first question is, this introduces a rule for using these devices, once. Second, it provides information protection. And the third, most important, of course, is that he is able to survive a soldier who, unfortunately, has hidden in his pocket or backpack the device that will bring on him the rocket that will kill him. So it's an important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u75	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we ask you to mobilize as well. Because, in fact, it's not more and less, it's about the lives of the soldiers that are on the forerunner today. You know, unfortunately, we don't have satellites, and we can't control cell phones. And this security issue is extremely serious today. We must protect people, and there are indeed clear reasons and circumstances in which the commander may forbid the use of this connection. This does not mean total ban, of course. But when a commander decides it's a threat to a soldier's life, he can do it. For the sake of the safety of soldiers, it is clear that Parliament should now support the first reading and continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u77	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction, after discussing this bill, listening to the arguments of the parties, the motivation, we will support this bill in the first reading. And we suggest that the second reading be finalized along with the previous government bill. Because, of course, the lives of military personnel are of the highest value. You can repair roads broken by terrorists, you can repair houses, but you can't bring a person back to life. Therefore, every effort must be made to preserve the lives of military personnel, including in such a sensitive area. When a Russian radio scout pelenges the targets, without any difficulty plenning the targets on mobile phones, and then inflicts deadly blows on them, resulting in significant losses on our military. That's why we support the Radical Party faction always supports all the laws aimed at strengthening the country's security of life for Ukrainian citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shepherd, Self-Help. Please take your seats, let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u80	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, I will explain the reasons why Self-Help did not support this bill. A few days ago, we were directly in Mariupola, and we were in touch with sector commanders, and we were in contact with the Nazgwardia command. They specifically asked us not to support this bill. Explain why. First of all, we just voted on a bill that gave the Cabinet of Ministers the right to command the order in which mobile phones are used. They can say, turn it off, get the battery out and everything. In this bill, we oblige commanders to become batteries of telephones, and tomorrow, if the compartment is to be held in blockage, on the way out without the battery on the attack, it will not even be able to warn anyone that the enemy is attacking them. So do not change your mind. We are voting on the previous law, and in this bill we are trying to put order into the law. Therefore, it is the military who are asked not to make commanders out of warlords of battery packs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u81	Respectful colleagues may need to be made clear. Once again, the language is that we take this law as a basis. And the point is that these devices are used as guidance tools. I want to assure you that any radio connection, the cell phone can be shut down in, literally, seconds. One second, no one's gonna call. They're going to be batteries and everything. It's just that he's being pelenged and he's being hit there, and these blows are taking the lives of our military. It is sad and sad that such things can happen. One more thing. When the commander is given the right, it is very good. But the commander must act so that these standards for all military personnel are roughly the same. You can't have it in a different department. It's a different decision. That's why it's about adopting this law, and I'm stressing again, as a basis. On the basis of that, we continue to work on the second reading. There's an offer of Self-Help, there's a proposal from the Radical Party, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Fatherland, generally other proposals from national deputies and groups, and we're going to adopt a quality law to preserve the lives of every military officer. Period! Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote and vote on the basis of draft Law 2154. I ask you to return to vote on the debate, for the return, and then on the basis, and we will continue to work. It is the preservation of the lives of our military personnel. Please, on your return, please support. Please support the return. [[11:32:38]] For 239. Thank you, colleagues. Now I ask for the basis of it. Please vote on the basis. Decision taken: 239 for return. Please support me as a base. Please support me as a base. [[11:32:59]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The decision is made as a basis. I ask you to work in detail to ensure that everything works as it should: to preserve the lives and health of our military personnel. Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. Next, please, draft law (registration number 2030), draft law amending the Ukrainian Terrorism Act (for the operational management of anti-terrorist operations). He will report to the author, the national deputy Levus, and the committee, as well as to the national deputy Levus. Please set five minutes to report, and please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, today I propose to support the amendments to the Terrorism Act. The thing is, in that hybrid, vile war waged against us by the Russian Federation, we can expect strikes at different times in different territories. Accordingly, our counterterrorism must be more flexible and more operational. According to the Act on Combating Terrorism, article 12 of the Act stipulates that the head of the operational headquarters of the anti-terrorist operation may be, in fact, the head of the ATC, the anti-terrorist centre of the Ukrainian Security Service. This limits the operationality of decisions and the use of force and means to counter various terrorist threats. Accordingly, the bill proposes to grant the right to head the operational headquarters of the anti-terrorist operation to the first Deputy Director of the ATC, as well as the Deputy Director of the ATC, as well as to allow them, in the amendments to Article 13 of the Act, to engage the relevant forces and means of counter-terrorism. This will give us an opportunity if, God forbid, when a situation may arise in Ukraine where a number of anti-terrorist operations will take place in various parts of Ukraine quickly and quickly, to administer counter-terrorist threats and to be appropriate to these threats. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supported this bill. It was developed along with the Ukrainian Security Service, the bill. The National Security and Defence Committee also calls on the House to support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor. An important law. Is there a need to say "yes", "against" position? I think we're all the only ones that have mechanisms to fight. We're all the only ones to improve the effectiveness of fighting terrorists and carrying out terrorist operations. The Ukrainian Security Service needs a few words. The Security Service is asking for the support of this bill as important. Friends, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Draft Law (registration number 2030): Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act (for the operational management of anti-terrorist operations). An extremely important law. I'd like to prepare the people's deputies for the vote. Ready to vote? Please, there is a proposal to vote on this bill as a whole. There is a proposal for both the author and the committee, the Security Service, to support this bill. So I would like to support this bill as a whole. Vote please, colleagues. On the basis and in general, please support. On the basis and in general. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:37:14]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. You have before you a draft Act (registration number 2389), a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine by foreigners and non-citizens. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Timchuk. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please identify the national MPs for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:38:04]] For 172 Decision taken. Please, Dmitri Borisovich, on the rostrum. Report. He'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! This bill is called upon to solve a problem that already exists and is far from the first month, in fact from the very beginning of the so-called anti-terrorist operation. It is about participating in the ATO on the side of Ukraine of volunteers from other nations. This problem is theoretically solved in two ways. The first way is to simplify the procedure for granting citizenship to these volunteers, the citizenship of Ukraine. But specifically this bill is aimed at solving the problem of foreign volunteers who do not want to accept Ukrainian citizenship. The fact is that the Constitution of Ukraine prohibits dual citizenship, i.e. if a foreign volunteer wants to sign a contract with the Ministry of Defence as a Ukrainian citizen, he has to accept Ukrainian citizenship, but get rid of the citizenship of his country. This is obviously not good for all foreign volunteers. To this end, we propose to allow foreign citizens to sign a contract for contract service with the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. This is in full harmony with the spirit of the Ukrainian Constitution, which declares that the protection of the country is a duty of a Ukrainian citizen, but does not deny that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine can also be protected by citizens of other states. More than that, the Constitution declares the same rights and freedoms in Ukraine to foreign citizens who are Ukrainian citizens. So this bill is fully in line with both the spirit of the Constitution and the need for time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u85	Do you want to finish? Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u86	We can be proud that not only the citizens of Ukraine but also the citizens of other nations have abandoned their homes, abandoned their private lives, come to us and, with weapons in their hands, defend our state. We know dozens and dozens of such cases. Moreover, so many of these heroes, the light of their memory, died fighting for Ukraine. There are a few problems around these people. The first, I think, is that we, as the Supreme Council, are obliged to settle, if necessary, and we have already adopted one bill, which is to give them Ukrainian citizenship on an expedited basis, on a simplified procedure, if they so wish. Some people don't want to, they don't want to, they don't want to remain citizens of their countries. That's why we have to do it completely, because we don't have it regulated in the legislation, to legalize the conduct of military service in Ukraine. I think it's the bill that will unite us all. And I offer to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? There's a need. Please sign two for, two against. John Wynnick, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u88	The bill is extremely important because, on the one hand, we must clearly allow foreigners to be part of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to protect independence and our freedom. On the other hand, we need to make clear who the mercenaries hired today by the Russian Federation's aggressor state are in order to destroy Ukraine, destroy our economy, kill our citizens, kill our independence and freedom. That's why this law is systemic. He amends the seven laws of Ukraine. It amends the Criminal Code, which clearly explains who are the mercenaries, who are the enemies of Ukraine, and who is fighting for Ukraine’s independence, and who should be supported. It amends the bill, Ukraine's "On the Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship" Act, the "On Military Duty and Military Service" Act, to Ukraine's statutes. And it clearly allows today in the Armed Forces of Ukraine under the contract to have foreigners who really will strengthen the security of our state. We need to be supportive of the first reading. And prepare quickly for the second reading. And I'll take it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before you pass the word on, I'd like to welcome you to the session hall, your colleagues, and welcome you to the session room the mother of Nadia Savchenko, Mary Ivanovna Savchenko, and Sister Vera Savchenko. Let's say hello! [[Applause]] Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u90	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. This law is generally very right. And, of course, in the first reading, we will support it. But I am paying attention to one very strange norm that somehow crept into this bill, which must be adjusted for the second reading. This bill somehow takes away the position, the current position of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, according to which the time spent by the military service is included by Ukrainian citizens in their insurance service, their internships, their internships in special service, and their internships in public service. This rule somehow disappears from the relevant law under this bill. That is, people who will be freed from their jobs and volunteer to the army will not be counted as a job. So, of course, this rule does not apply to the purpose of this bill, it's not clear how it got here, it's such a feeling that someone is trying to save people's lives. And, of course, this rule should be annulled until the second reading. I'm paying attention to all the people's deputies so it doesn't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u91	Please, Michael Bondar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u92	The People's Front will support this bill. And I hope he's going to be voted. And I thank everyone in advance, because the guys on the front phone are repeatedly asking them to legalize them, just like the guys from other states who defend the sovereignty and integrity of our state. So once again, I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Vadim Rabinovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u94	Dear People's Deputies, we have already taken on foreign leaders and we know how this ended. If people want to protect Ukraine, they have a law that allows them to adopt Ukrainian citizenship. Otherwise, let's say we just legalize mercenaries and turn Ukraine into an assembly that the armed people of unknown passports are going to be walking, and I'm not sure, and you can't be sure that they're going to protect Ukraine either. We must by no means turn Ukraine into a wild geese platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u95	Please, Igor Museiczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u96	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. An extremely important bill. The Radical Party will definitely support his vote. Since the first day of the conflict, patriots from around the world have come and stood up for Ukraine. Personally, I want to mention now Michael Skilt, who from day one, Swede, took part in an armed conflict, a sniper who was with me, who was involved in the liberation of Mariupol. Regrettably, the already dead Jesus Munayev, who is in fact the Hero of Ukraine, who gave his life for the freedom of Ukraine and the freedom of his homeland. Foreigners have extended their hand of friendship to us, and this must be taken into account. Stop hiding like an ostrich, head in the sand and say they're in the ATO zone as volunteers because they're risking their lives every day. There is a need, in addition to this bill, to perhaps begin with the creation of a foreign legion in the country, of foreigners who are willing to protect our homeland. And what's particularly important is this bill for those Russians who are on the side of Ukraine against Moscow and who still want to overthrow Putin, and they don't want to be deprived of their citizenship, they want to remain citizens of the Russian Federation in order to return to their country and overthrow the hateful regime of Putin. Glory to Ukraine! We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u97	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u98	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will no doubt support this very important bill. This is actually a bill that makes it possible to clearly identify who is the mercenary of the Russian Federation, Putin in the country, those who have illegally invaded our territory and are now in the ranks of the LNR terrorist organizations, the DNR are actually terrorizing and shooting our fellow citizens, and those who are officially under military duty in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In addition to what is very important, this bill clearly divides that if you want to be an officer, then you have to accept Ukrainian citizenship. If you want to serve in a regular position, you have the right to serve as a citizen of a foreign state. This is the practice of other countries. That is why our faction supports this bill and proposes to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a proposal to vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The draft Law (Registration No. 2389) has been introduced to vote, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces by foreigners and non-citizens. There is a proposal for the committee to take it into account with the committee's decision on the basis. Based on the base. So please, Your Honor, with respect to this law, on a basis. Draft Act on the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine by foreigners and persons without citizenship. We heard a reporter's position, factions during the discussion, and also a profile committee with a proposal to support on the basis of the results of the first reading. Please vote on the basis. [[11:51:26]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Law (Registration No. 2292) to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to replace the permanent deprivation of liberty with a more mild penalty. The reporter is Irina Lucenko. Please, Irina Stepanovna. There is an invitation for the rapporteur to consider it as a reduced procedure, and please ask the national MPs to identify themselves, please, for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:52:09]] For 175 Decision taken. Please report to Irina Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! The question of the humanization of individual criminal laws regarding the application of penalties in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty is long overdue, but it has not been resolved until today. These changes that we propose, the authors of this bill Victor Chumak and I, we want to bring our legislation into line with existing European practices and European standards. Before I report on the substance of this bill, I want to draw your attention to one basic point. The Low Criminal Code: Criminal Code, Criminal Enforcement Code and Criminal Procedure Code – called upon to resolve the main issue – is the irreparability of punishment for criminal crime, as well as the conduct of a series of measures and the isolation of those responsible for this crime in order to correct these people as criminals. Part two of article 50 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code speaks of this. I would like to point out and emphasize that no one is talking about the fact that punishment in the form of eternal deprivation of liberty is being abolished or not being applied. For some reason, this is what individual colleagues of our Parliament see. The point is that for penalties limited by time, there is a possibility or right to be released conditionally when a number of requirements are met. And for those who are permanently deprived of that right, there is no such possibility. And that's why we're proposing to introduce her. The bill is very simple. It's made up of three blocks. First. Amendments to article 64, 68 of the Criminal Code, which excludes the possibility of condemning the permanent deprivation of the will of those who are accused of committing or attempting to commit a crime, as well as those who have not been directly involved in the commission of a crime. What's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u102	Please give a little more time, because we need to explain the rules of this law. At the same time, I note that we did not include in this list the very organizers of the crime did not include women in this list. That is, these categories of convicts who are sentenced to life imprisonment can be applied. The other one. The second block of problems is the following. He decides by introducing the possibility of replacing the unspent part of the punishment with the permanent deprivation of the will with a more mild penalty, that is, for a period of time, as well as conditional layoffs. In particular, it is possible to conditionally release the sentence of permanent deprivation of liberty after the actual (pay attention!) The sentence of not less than 15 years may only be replaced if the unspent part of the sentence is replaced by a milder penalty. is replaced only by being deprived of liberty for a term of at least 25 years. In doing so, such a replacement is possible only after the actual execution of a sentence of not less than 10 years. The third block consists of more detailing the institution of pardon. What does that mean? It has been determined that the issue of pardon has the right to submit not only to the condemned and to his representatives but also to law - enforcement organizations. In addition, the 7th article has been amended. to part seven of article 154 of the Code, which establishes a mechanism for re-examination of issues on condition of early release in the event of a previous refusal. Before, they had no right, not before one year after the decision to refuse was made. The novelty introduced is also to provide administrative supervision of those sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty if they are conditionally released for the term. What does it mean? These prisoners, who will be able to get paroled, will be under administrative supervision for five years. If they change their behavior, people will be sent back to prison for life. Such five major novels offer the opportunity to bring this bill into European standards. There is a decision by the European Court of Human Rights in which the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u103	Please finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, it's a difficult decision after those bills where we talked about supporting our guys in the ATO area. But we're moving and we want to become members of the European Union. In England, Germany, Spain, Italy, and a number of other countries, such as Sweden, Norway, and so on, and so forth. After 15 years of imprisonment, prisoners have the right to seek relief from their fate. In no way does anyone remove this rule of permanent deprivation of liberty, but we, as a human society, have to give them the right to correction, the right to relief if they have served 15 years and the colony’s administration, and the court will see that these people are being corrected. Please support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u105	Thank you, Irina Stepanovna. Please report to Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemyakin. Please, dear fellows, concentrate, I think we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u106	I would like to thank Mr. Chumak and Mrs. Lucenko for actually returning to the problem that arose at a time when the deputies of the Fatherland factions visited, unfortunately, a place like the Kachanov Colony, in which Julia Timoshenko was illegally held. And there's a block, a special block, containing 26 women in prison for life. And only after we began to analyze the subject did we realize that it was not easy to communicate with them, all of them, well, with the other prisoners of this colony. is done during a criminal regime, which is not so simple and not so right and unfair in relation to some people who are imprisoned forever. That's why this proposal came up. Regrettably, it was in the past invocation, for example, rejected. I don't think that's right. And today, colleagues have done so, and the committee fully supports this initiative. Moreover, we believe that today, by excluding the possibility of condemning to this extent the punishment of persons who are accused of committing, preparing, or attempting to commit a crime, as well as of manuals that have not directly participated in the commission of a crime, this is indeed an opportunity to discuss the problem in the first post-adoption, and to identify themselves. And in the end, really, as Mrs. Irina Lucenko said, go to the full humanization of the Ukrainian Penal Code and make it more European. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, is there a need to speak, or do we put two in favour, two in front? Vote. Roger that. Then I will ask you to support and put to the vote Bill 2292: the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to replace the permanent deprivation of liberty with a more mild penalty. This bill is the basis. Please vote on base 2292. Please support. On the basis of that, please support. [[12:01:23]] For 215 Dear colleagues, I began by asking if there was a need for discussion. They said no. Let's, if there's a need to talk, let's write two in favour, two in the opposite. Please two in favour, two in the opposite direction. We continue to hold meetings in 15 minutes on the right of the presiding officer. And please, before the discussion. Peter Prashenko's Block, Chekita Hennaday Leonidovich. Please turn on the microphone. Hennady Leonidovich. Please pass on the word to Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to concentrate and back up this bill. I would like to say that aside from all the problems Irina Lucenko has said, they do have a place, and this law solves another huge problem, and this is a problem of judicial error. As a result of the preparation for this draft law, we have seen very serious implementation problems. the right to apply laws concerning the permanent imprisonment of persons. See, there were people who were not involved in the crimes who were solely involved in the preparation and the assassination, but they were sentenced to life without the right to review their sentences. At the same time, the perpetrators, directly the perpetrators of the crime, who were arrested later, were called to account in the form of a specific term of imprisonment. Thus, courts cannot simply use a certain term to limit a certain term of imprisonment if life imprisonment is provided. I very much ask you to concentrate and support this law because it decides very much or deprives you of the possibility of using judicial errors in court practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Podlisecki Leo Theophilovich, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u111	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues. The Self-Help faction will support this law as a basis, and we want to emphasize two basics. First, indeed, the law solves the question of humanizing criminal responsibility and cannot have the same responsibility as the people who have prepared for crime or incitement and at the level of those who have committed direct crime, that is the first position. And given the imperfections of the judicial system today, the imperfections of the judicial right of application, we must foresee in the current criminal law the possibility of reviewing such judgments. Therefore, we ask that we support and take into account that many of the decisions of the European Court of Justice stress that there should be a mechanism to review such judgments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Jurko Levchenko. Replica, one minute. Please turn on the microphone. Ah, included Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u114	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. First, I point out to the chairman that this bill could not have been submitted at all for consideration by the session hall, because a completely similar 1218 bill has already been rejected. I mean, you're in a rough schedule, putting it in the session room. And now essentially the bill. Here the bill proposes that people who have been sentenced to life imprisonment in articles such as the 110 articles be allowed to die or other serious consequences, a deliberate murder committed in burdensome circumstances, a terrorist act that has led to the death of a person, genocide, violations of laws and customs of war, and so on and so forth. I mean, conditionally speaking, for example, those terrorists who crashed the plane into a temporarily uncontrollable territory, yes, they could be released from prison after 15 years if we ever put them in prison. Think about what you're doing! Do we have a crime rate in Ukraine every day that you're putting in place this kind of humanization? Rapists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u115	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. And we'll vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u116	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. A very important bill in terms of humanization. He had a long discussion. And now it's very important to support it. He's supported by a committee. Supports the Radical Party faction. We urge colleagues to vote. The fact is, with our perjury here, there are even questions in society that even some of those who have been sentenced to life. Are they justly condemned or not? So humanizing this type of punishment is very important, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u117	Please, two minutes, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u118	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we're back to the old question. Is there a need for those who are condemned forever to be allowed to review these matters in the framework of the humanization of legislation? I'm sure, and our "Fatherland" faction, after analyzing the situation in the colonies, especially in the Kachanov Colony, where 26 women sentenced to life imprisonment were women who defended and murdered their rapists, but were sentenced to life imprisonment. We're just convinced that we should look at all these questions. Since it is a question of whether we are covering, in due time, as it was due to the death penalty, when those who have committed crimes were found, and at that point the punishment has already been carried out. And man was executed, even though he had nothing to do with such a crime. Now we are moving on to the second stage to actually soften our legislation in this part. And I'm also addressing our colleagues from the People's Front who somehow didn't give the necessary number of votes. This is a bill that enables the European Court of Human Rights to bring into line with the decisions it has made regarding Ukraine. These are the standards that are directly related to our commitments that we made when we joined the Council of Europe. So I am convinced that our majority of parliaments should support this bill, bring about justice and restore justice that does not meet the European standards of our lives right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. It's an absolute modern European law. There were sufficient arguments for both the author, the co-author, and the committee accordingly on the need for his approval, and the position of all the national deputies was expressed. Therefore, there is an offer to return to his consideration. I would ask the national deputies to take their seats and prepare themselves to support the return to its consideration and to continue to accept it as a basis. Then work out what is necessary and bring it out into the voting room in the second reading. Please, are you ready to vote? Please take your seats, national deputies, please. On returning 2292, please support, return. An important bill. For your return, please vote on your return. I'd like your support, colleagues. I'd like to support you for your return. [[12:10:32]] For 221 Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u120	I understand we didn't make it. Please, colleagues. Please, please. Please, dear fellows, for your return. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please support my return to this bill. Please vote in favour. Let's support the return, please support. [[12:11:23]] For 227 Vote. 227. Please mobilize, dear fellow national MPs. Please mobilize. Can we vote? Please, on the basis of 2292, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the replacement of permanent deprivation of liberty with a milder penalty. Please support 2292 on a base, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. On the basis of that, colleagues. [[12:12:03]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] The card didn't work. Okay, there are three minutes left, so I took advantage of my right to continue the session for 15 minutes. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. One vote, an important bill. Come on, guys, let's go. Colleagues, come on, it's important. It's important, guys. Let's go back. Please vote on the return of the bill. Please vote. I'd like to support the pro. [[12:12:55]] For 209 Okay. We're on that note. We'll start a meeting like last time. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, colleagues. Thank you. At 12:45 a.m., we'll continue our meeting. Please, 12.45.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u121	Please take your seats. I ask the secretariat to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work, and I ask the heads of the faction to mobilize the factions for fruitful and active work. Dear colleagues, we're not enough for our work, so I'm very much asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. Please, fellow citizens, we enter the hall of employment, cards, work. Mr. Yegor, where's Self-Help? Where's Self-Help? Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! In a minute or two, we'll start our work. Please come in and take your jobs. Heads of factions, please inform the deputies of the beginning of the session, we occupy jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the next we have is a draft of the Law. continue our session, draft Law 1888. There's an offer from the author, I'll give the floor to Alexander Danchenk. Please, Alexander Danchenko, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, I propose that we postpone consideration of this law for further reconciliation of positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u124	Thank you. At the request of the author, we will postpone his consideration, agreeing on the next time for a negotiated position. Dear colleagues, you have been introduced with the draft Act (registration number 2436) amending the Ukrainian Code of Military Assembly Tax. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tetjana Georgievna Ostrkova, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u125	Who said, "vote"? Dear colleagues, the author's proposal is to consider the draft law in a simplified manner. Please ask a colleague of the people's deputies to take their seats, please make up your mind about reviewing the bill in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself. [[12:58:42]] For-138 Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrikak. So there's an offer, once again, to look at the reduced procedure, so was it your proposal to consider it short?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u127	Please make up your mind, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please prepare for consideration of the bill on a reduced procedure. Please support: for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, let's support it. [[12:59:29]] For-167 Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Military Assembly Tax Code. The bill proposes not to tax the citizens' incomes from currency-sales operations by the military assembly. This project is based on the fact that the exchange of one currency to another cannot be considered a person’s income, since such exchange does not create additional material values in either monetary or other natural form. When you and I voted in favour of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code in March, there were amendments to the vote, according to which the military assembly taxed everything taxed on the income of individuals. It should be noted that article 165 of the Tax Code does not recognize the income of a person, so the income indicated, the cost of an equivalent exchange of one currency to another, should not be an object of taxation, including the military congregation. Thus, if the exchange of currency does not correspond to the signs of income and is not recognized as income tax in terms of the income tax of natural persons, as I have already stated, taxation by the military assembly should not be carried out. Unfortunately, since March 2nd, when this law became effective, some banks have taxed currency-sale transactions with the military assembly, others have not taxed. Now we have to remove this contradiction and clearly point out that transactions in foreign currency purchases are not subject to military taxation. And also the argument for supporting this law is that the introduction of the military assembly into currency-exchange transactions has led to the return of the foreign exchange market. We're not supposed to let that happen to you. So I would like to support this law as a whole. There literally is one rule in the Tax Code. Colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, Secretary of the National Committee of the People's Deputy Krishin. Please, Oleg Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to remind you that, in March of this year, at the time of the adoption of Act No.211-8 of Ukraine amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine by vote, without discussion, an amendment was introduced on the basis of which, as of 13 March 2015, taxation by the military assembly of transactions in monetary values, i.e. exchange of currency, began. This hasty process led to taxing the entire amount of exchange transactions of natural persons, not their income, as set out in the Tax Code. You don't have to be a great economist here to understand that if you exchange one currency equivalent to another, there's no income or income in the individual. So this unbalanced vote in the Tax Code is wrong. In addition, the existence of a valid code for the military exchange of currencies has had a negative impact on the foreign exchange market and has resulted in a deepening of Ukraine’s financial market. Of course, we've lost some time. The military is being held back from exchange operations for almost a month. But as they say, better late than never. This situation needs to be rectified as soon as possible. To this end, a group of members of the committee initiated a bill (registration number 2436) designed to abolish taxation by the military assembly of transactions from the purchase and sale of foreign currency natural persons. The committee reviewed the draft law and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider Bill No.2436 and to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, two for, two against. Sign up. Two for, two against. National MP Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u132	I give the word to Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u133	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Our faction supports this bill. But in the future, it is important to talk about the fact that the military congregation should be at the shoulders of the richest of societies: the oligarchs, those who have access to state enterprises, have become rich and, unfortunately, continue to be rich. Therefore, our view is that it will be possible to think first of all about what the richest sections of the population are supposed to cost the most in terms of the country’s security. In general, the faction supports the bill and urges the colleague to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the point is that today the Tax Code forces taxes to be paid by those who do not earn. Taxes have already been paid. Today, a military coincidence, a military tax so called currency exchange, is handled by people who do not earn money. If this tax were to be managed by banks, that's a very different thing, because in currency transactions, banks make exactly what they do. So our faction will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u137	Sobolje, Fatherland. The "Fatherland" faction supports this bill because there is virtually no logic in double taxation by the military. If you work, you pay the military congregation, if you are a pensioner, you pay the military congregation. On what basis can you continue to support the military congregation? That's why our faction, based on this logic, supports the authors of the bill and thinks it's perfectly fair to go about it that way and end the practice of double taxation. And in general, we need, from the incomes that we have today, why our faction insisted on introducing a bill that, unfortunately, did not go through without being included in the agenda, to consider in general the question of the citizens' income index, including pensioners, from the incomes of the budget that exist on the basis of half a year. And we see that there is every possibility in the state to go back in budget to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! With regard to this bill, the faction of the Opposition Block clearly expresses its position on the support of the bill, since the bill in question actually output from the foreign exchange exchange tax facility. In doing so, foreign currency is not only a foreign currency, it is also a national currency, it is also a foreign currency, it is also a national currency, and it is also an appropriate right to demand that currency is the object of. Of course, to collect a tax on the circulation of money without a properly available tax base, an income tax facility, that is not right, that is not economically sound. Because economic justification is one of the principles of the tax system provided for in article 4 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. For my part, I want to point out that in principle the very nature of the military congregation is the nonsensus of our tax system. And it's probably the result of some kind of work, some legal work. Because virtually everyone speaks of the military congregation, but according to its legal nature, it is not even a tax. Articles 9 and 10 do not provide for an appropriate tax or congregation. Hence, he is not obliged. In fact, there is such a conflict that we have objects of taxation for the military congregation, and there is no tax base for the military congregation. Thus, in the exercise of many rights, he does not actually get involved. And with regard to cash flows in terms of currency-exchange transactions, of course, we call on all colleagues to support this appropriate legislative initiative and correct those errors that have occurred as a result of voting on certain rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the position is clear. I'm asking you to take all your seats. A draft law (registration number 2436) is put to the vote on the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine concerning the Military Assembly. Please take your seats and exercise your constitutional authority. Colleagues, based on a total of 2,436 draft Law amending the Code of Taxation for the Military Assembly. Please, colleagues, back up, please vote on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:10:29]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you and I have completed our work on the draft Law, debate 2292, but before the break, we have not had enough votes to go back to its consideration. There is a proposal to go back to the previously unadopted Law 2292 — the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the replacement of permanent deprivation of liberty with a milder penalty and reported by our colleague Irina Lucenko. An important European law to be passed. So there's an offer to go back, there's an offer to go back to it. Dear friends, let us support the return to the consideration of this bill, 2292. Please support the return of 2292, please support, colleagues. [[13:11:28]] For 226 We're back. We're back. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. This bill is a proposal to vote on the basis. Attention! Friends, on the ground. Based on the base. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. 2292 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to replace permanent deprivation of liberty with a milder penalty. It's basically a European law. You've heard the position of the reporter and the factions today. Please be supportive. A report by the chairman of the committee. Please support me on the basis, we will continue to work with you. Please vote. [[13:12:28]] For 239. Thank you. Decision taken, colleagues. Then we prepare for the second reading accordingly. Dear colleagues, the draft law (registration number 1750) on the amendment to section III, paragraph 10, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Act "To make changes and recognitions that have become invalid, some legislative acts of Ukraine" (to strengthen the social protection of military personnel and workers involved in anti-terrorist operations) is being submitted to your consideration. There is a proposal for the committee to withdraw it from the consideration of the bill. But he is to be reported by the initiator, the national deputy of Ukraine Baloga Viktor Ivanovich. He's gone. Since there is no reporter, dear colleagues, there is no one to report this bill. 1509, registration number of draft Law 1509 amending article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the non-delaying of periods of sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, radiological and environmental control of humanitarian aid). National MP Viacheslav Constantinowski reports. There is an offer by the author to review the draft law in a simplified way. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. So let's say, colleagues, let's support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:14:17]] For-183 Please report to Vejacheslav Leonidovich. 183.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Today, Ukraine is more demanding international humanitarian assistance than ever, as our military and refugees are not in the best position today. At the same time, the customs clearance of humanitarian goods shall not be carried out until the documents for phytosanitary, environmental, radiological and other controls have been drawn up. There are two Cabinet rulings that exempt goods provided by governmental organizations, the UN, the Red Cross, NATO from this procedure. At the same time, huge quantities of goods are unloaded at warehouses pending the completion of these documents. This applies outside government organizations and religious organizations. Draft Law 1509 requires a clear deadline for the issuance of these documents – not more than 7 days from the receipt of notification of humanitarian assistance status. If necessary, those who receive this assistance pay huge sums of money for the storage of goods to intermediary companies that accelerate the process. The essence of this bill is simple, up to 7 days. That's all right, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Please report to Alexander Trelyakow, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u143	Deputies! On 18 March, the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATO and Persons with Disabilities considered Bill 1509, authorship of Deputy Konstantinovski. Regarding the amendment to article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid on the Prevention of Prolongation of Sanitary, Veterinary, Phytosanitary, Radiological, Environmental Control of Humanitarian Aid. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a simplified procedure for the above-mentioned types of humanitarian assistance control with a view to accelerating customs control as quickly as possible. Under the special conditions of the ATO, the Cabinet of Ministers has already simplified procedures for the treatment of humanitarian goods, international organizations such as the Red Cross, UN organizations and so on. But the decree is not being considered, nor does it apply to humanitarian assistance provided to foreign donors, charities and individuals. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council made some comments on the bill, but suggested that it be adopted as a basis. Conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Committee: no evidence found. The conclusion of the budget committee was also positive. Accordingly, the conclusion of our committee is also positive. Therefore, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, two for, two for against, is there a need? It doesn't, does it? None. There is only the national deputy Jurinec and Paul Unguryan. Please, in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u145	Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dusty's Block. The registered bill 2609, which deals absolutely with this issue. Moreover, it points to the decentralization of the ability of all cargoes that go into need of an ATO to be categorized today. This bill is not complete, let's say, it solves this issue and it seems appropriate at all to leave this issue in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, by its very decision, is able to regulate it. So 2609 will be a more perfect bill, which will allow humanitarian cargo to be clearly called, to be clear in the areas where they are heading, and it has absolutely innovative approaches to today's regulation of the transport of humanitarian goods. Therefore, support the request for the following bill, which is registered, 2609.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u146	Thank you. Is there more? Paul Unguryan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! It is definitely necessary to support the bill, as a minimum, in the first reading. Because, unfortunately, it's too much of a unique case where customs are carrying the goods that our people are collecting, the volunteers are collecting diaspora outside the country, and it's lying on customs and it can't get into the anti-terror zone, it can't get into humanitarian cargo for forced migrants. Clearly, this is wrong, this practice is scary, and we must stop this practice. Clearly, first reading should be supported. The People's Front will support it. If there are other initiatives, we can unite in preparation for the second reading. But there is no need to continue with these shameful examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u148	Thank you. Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Prashenko's Block. When we meet foreigners, our diaspora, people who sincerely want to help our country fight the aggressor, we often hear a very simple thought: "Boys, we collect, we pass it on to you. Why are there bureaucratic barriers in your territory?" If we keep doing this, we're going to get to the point where people's initiative to help us in Canada, in Poland, in European countries, it's just going to go down to zero. Therefore, the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block supports this bill as a basis. We call on all the colleagues in his room to support him without any obstacles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Korchinska and then Miroshnichenko. After a minute, literally. The second reading will take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u151	Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction supports the bill in the first reading and asks all colleagues to support it. We really hope that by the second reading we will be working on it. Because right now we have an enormous amount of humanitarian aid for the ATO, and officials are using it, and unfortunately they are creating illegal mechanisms to take away this humanitarian aid and corruption, of course, mechanisms. So we ask all colleagues to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko and let's go to the vote. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u153	My dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to state that those deputies from the Opposition Block who are present at the meeting will vote in favour of this bill, because these bills have to unite the Hall and it's about humanitarian aid. Without denying a systemic solution to this issue, of course, the urgent measures proposed by this bill should be supported and the humanitarian burdens should not be kept on duty, but should come to those to whom they should be proved. That's why we urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you. Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, let's go to the vote. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 9 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid" (to prevent prolonged periods of sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, radiological and environmental control of humanitarian aid). The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Constantinovski. There is a proposal for the committee to vote for it. I'm putting this proposal to a vote, based on 1509. Please, Your Honor, on the basis of this, please vote, please support. Based on the base. [[13:23:44]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of the law. There's a proposal by the People's Deputy Ribak to prepare this bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. I think it might be logical, given that we have two sessional weeks. Please consider preparing for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:24:30.]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Draft Law registration number 1684 and 1684-1 (alternative). National Deputy Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich and Labazük Sergey Petrovich, respectively. There are suggestions to consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself as to the consideration of the reduced procedure, your honors. This is a review of the reduced procedure. [[13:25:14]] For 171 Decision taken. 171. Please, Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantee of Their Social Protection (for social and property guarantees to participants in voluntary battalions). The bill is short and provides for the restoration of that gap in the status of members of the military, the volunteers who are protecting the country today and who, in the early days, regardless of the position of the Ministry of Defence, have been able to organize and move to the eastern borders to protect the country. Regrettably, many of them have failed to join the Armed Forces or the National Guard -- and today they are defending themselves as volunteer battalions. Some of them were injured and returned home without status or were unable to enter the State - organized armed formations. Therefore, it is suggested that this gap be noted, removed, and brought to the category of persons who may become members of the military. Clearly, there is a question of how to prove status and participation in military activities on the side of Ukraine, because today we know that in occupied areas there are also gang-forming that think they're protecting something. Therefore, we suggest that such persons are recognized as engaged in hostilities on the basis of confirmation of their participation in military activities with at least two active members of the hostilities that have such status. Then we cut off all possible conflicts as to which side this person took part. And this should not be the case for many members of the volunteer battalions today who are injured to prove to the courts that these are not domestic injuries, and these are injuries in protecting the country, and therefore seek the right to social and material support by the state. Please support this bill of the Radical Party faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u156	Please report to the national MP Labazük. Is there a national MP, Labazük? Please, and then there will be the committee's report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u157	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is given to the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on additional guarantees for participants in hostilities, No. 1684-1. In Ukraine, unfortunately, war continues, an antiterrorist operation involving military personnel. It can be said without exaggeration that they all protect the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of our country. In accordance with the legislation, ATO participants must be submitted to the notifying commissions set up by the central executive authorities and other state institutions, providing evidence of their participation in the ATO, certified by military formation commanders, in case of injury, in case of a medical commission, and in order to include pensions, a copy of the passport. But in practice, everything goes so wrong, much more complicated. In particular, fighters fight, get hurt, die, but the evidence that they are participants in the ATO does not. Or part commanders attribute them to military units that do not participate in the ATO. How can these fighters get their compensation? And practically none. They're just cornered, and they're very, very hard to get out of, and people just drop their hands. In this regard, in order to solve this problem and simplify the process of acquiring ATO status, the draft law proposes to oblige the Ministry of Defence and its structural units to provide evidence to support their participation in an anti-terrorist operation within 7 working days of the decision to demobilize and within 3 working days of the request. I'm sure you agree with me that this problem is extremely important during this period, and we need to demonstrate unity to our fighters immediately for the future. It's not Parliament's fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u158	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u159	So I would like to support this Bill 1684-1 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, Alexander Treyakow, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u161	The distinguished National Deputies, the Committee on Veterans, Actists of War, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities of 4 March have considered draft laws 1684 amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for social and property guarantees to participants in voluntary battalions), as well as bill 1684-1 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection. I want to thank the authors of these bills. But I would like to recall that on 7 April, Bill 1688 was adopted, which addresses the issues listed above in a comprehensive and systematic manner. The bill was signed by the President on 30 April. In drafting this Bill, 1688, we have taken the utmost account of all the norms currently proposed by the authors under draft Law 1684. Therefore, the Committee's decision is to send draft 1684 for further work. With regard to Bill 1684. It proposes that the Ministry of Defence and its structural units issue certificates confirming participation in the ATO. But today, under the current legislation, each department - both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs - is issuing these certificates to its units. Therefore, the assignment of these responsibilities to the Ministry of Defence would lead to misunderstandings. The Chief Research and Expert Office recommends that the draft draft (1684-1) be submitted for finalization. The Committee also recommends that the draft law (1684-1) be sent for finalization. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u162	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Yuri Chizmar. National deputy of Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! We ask you, on behalf of all volunteers, to give the volunteers a chance to become an ATO fighter. 1688 is already an adopted law, but in this case it exclusively protects the rights of the disabled, exclusively, and those of the boys who have died. Of course, this law should be taken as the first reading. We're in favour of supporting 1684, until the second reading process it. But give all our volunteers a chance. It's up to you now. We are extremely grateful for the support of Law 1684. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u164	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u165	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies to Ukraine! There must always be a logic in the lawmaking work of those laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they must apply primarily to unregulated issues. Today, this issue is addressed in this bill, regulated by the Law of Ukraine of 1688. In addition, I would like to remind the Ukrainian National Deputies of the rule of article 5 of the Ukrainian Civil Service Protection Act on the status of members of the war, which says that "participants of hostilities may be members of military and other formations." And a list of the formations that give us the right to participate in the hostilities sets up the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Today, no one prevents the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from taking volunteer battalions to the formations that have the status of participants in hostilities. And the adoption of this law can mean interference with the work of the higher executive body of Ukraine. We support the fact that this law needs to be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I'd like a minute. As for the regulation of legislation, I want to point out the important thing that when the Russian Federation attacked us more than a year ago, it wasn't legislation either. And a huge number of our guys right out of Maidan, I've already talked about it, where documents were burned in the union house, where you sent your Alpha and your penalty squads, they went straight to the front without documents. They took guns and protected their homeland, protected their families. Yes, this situation could not have been foreseen by legislation, for the legislation did not provide for the forceful repression of Maidan, and the legislation did not provide for Yanukovic to address the leader of another state with the call for aggression against our Ukrainian state. Hundreds and thousands of boys found themselves in unregulated status today. We have already settled the situation with those who have died or with those who have been injured. But many who are alive to this day and who are still at war in advance need to settle their status. They were actually the ideological foundation of our war in the East. We're talking about the adoption of the law in the first reading. We will be able to resolve all the issues that exist. But if the state doesn't show justice, justice! – to those who defend their independence at the cost of their lives, it is very difficult to expect that our boys on the front line will be motivated enough to face death every day. And that's why I urge you to support this bill as a basis. We will be able to settle any dispute in the course of its discussion and now vote in all halls, groups and together, without dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u167	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, we'll do it this way. Now I'm going to give Victor Halasyuk a minute, then a minute of Andrew Titaruk, the People's Front. And let's move on to the closing word of the head of the profile committee. Wait a minute. Let's just take a minute and get to the vote. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the Radical Party faction supports Bill 1684. At the same time, I would like to highlight another very important issue. You remember that over three weeks ago, you and I passed the 2528 Law on the Retirement of Working Scientists. It's still not signed anywhere in the president's office. So we urge the President of Ukraine to sign this bill without delay and to preserve the nation's golden elite, the scientists who work. And the second question. Bill 1362 on the ban on the export of roundwood. You and I took him over a month ago! We urge the President and President's Administration to sign this very important law that creates tens of thousands of jobs in Ukraine, which provides several billion additional export revenues for the country! That allows the budget to be filled by its own tax revenue, not by the IMF's loans. This is a real revival of the woodworking, furniture industry of Ukraine. The Radical Party faction calls on the President's Administration to sign the bill immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u170	With regard to the vote on draft law 1684/1 concerning the granting of "warlords" to volunteers. We are very careful to monitor what social standards are adopted for all who participate in the protection of the country. But there are certain situations where we need to understand how the provision of services and the counting of these military personnel involved in hostilities, as well as in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard in the status of volunteer battalions. Today, the transition of all volunteer troops to the Armed Forces and the National Guard is almost complete. All these points are settled. So in order to avoid the moments when, on the basis of one volunteer unit with about 500 volunteers, about two and a half thousand war certificates have been issued, we deny such an organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u171	Please finish Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u172	So we ask this bill 1684/1 to be sent for further work to come up with a prepared solution that will satisfy all the parties that take part in the fighting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u173	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please, Alexander Trelyakow, and let's move on to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u174	Dear First Vice-Speaker Andriy Parubay, you said it all right, only the exact same statement you gave when we adopted Bill 1688. I want to say that everything is fully settled in this bill, 1688. And all the fighters who took part in the summer campaign, and who, most importantly, are resolved in this bill by the fighters, who are part of their regular MOUs. All the other parts that are not legalized are their commanders' business. In Bill 1688, it is natural that those who have died and some of them have not been legalized should not be dependent on their commanders to go further or not to the Ministry of Defence and those who have been disabled. Therefore, once again, this bill, which we are considering, I propose to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u175	Please, National Deputy Wesselov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u176	The Self-Help faction certainly supports the social protection of volunteers, because they are really those people who, when the law was not yet defined as volunteers, went to protect Ukraine. But I support the committee's conclusion that Bill 1688, supported by the Supreme Council and signed this bill by the President of Ukraine, already defines all the conditions. But there are some points that cannot be prescribed in the law, and they will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, cases that cannot be prescribed by law can only be prescribed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. So we invite all those who have proposals to join the working group that will be set up at the Cabinet of Ministers and to develop this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Take your seats, we'll vote now. Please. Dear colleagues, your consideration is in order as they are in the order of the day, given draft laws. That is: 1684 is a draft law prepared by Yuri Chizmar. The point will be that I will now put it on the basis of this bill. And then we're determined by the second bill, that, if there's any sense, that's the one that's being prepared by the national MP, Labazük. So now I would ask everyone to concentrate before voting for Law 1684 as a basis. Accordingly, we will be able to work out all the questions that we may have on this issue. Prepared, colleagues? Ready? Ready. All differences can be settled when preparing for second reading. Please, 1684, draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for social and property guarantees for participants in voluntary battalions). 1684, based on colleagues. Based on the base. Vote. [[13:44:40]] For 131 The decision is not taken. Clearly, there are no votes. The second position is Law 1684-1, based on it. [[13:45:09]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Colleagues so as not to lose these laws. Look, I know they're important. Let's do the job, let's get back to the drafters of this bill, work out, do some more consultations so we don't lose, and get out with the agreed position of the authors of this bill and the committee to the Supreme Council Hall. So I would ask, let's vote now on the return of these bills to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing and, therefore, we will bring it in immediately so that we do not lose this bill. Please, I'd like your support, Your Honor. An important issue needs to be settled, and it should not simply be left out. Please support, colleagues, the right to return to the entities of the legislative initiative. On my way back. Let's support it. [[13:46:08]] For 206 Almost. Please, Easy, just a minute, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u178	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. Today, in the Supreme Council Hall, some deputies refuse to support draft legislation aimed at protecting the social status of volunteers. I want to remind you, more specifically, that does not this lie in the context of the Minsk Accords when you first dissolve the volunteer battalions, withdraw from the front, now deprive them of social protection? I want to ask those who don't support volunteers today, a year ago, when you had to save the country, when you had to stop the enemy, when people gave their lives for the protection of the country, where were you then? Then they were on the front page, and today you deny these heroes the right to receive social protection and help. It's immoral, it's irresponsible. The brothers, devoured, fell down, lost their sense of land. Get down on the ground and support the volunteers!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u179	All right, colleagues, let's do it again. We don't have to insult each other. The law must be prepared, it must be passed, it must be taken into account, for every national MP has his opinion, has his own vision, and should be counted on. So I would like to ask, my fellow Members, once again to return the subject of the legislative initiative, as decided by the committee. The committee seems to understand what they're doing. Is there no objection? Let me put this question to the vote again: to return these two bills to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development in accordance with the decision of the Professional Committee. Please support, and you will continue to work together, and you will determine how to proceed with a joint bill. Please, about your return. [[13:48:26]] For 227 Great. Absolutely normal decision: let's go back to the committee, the authors work together and continue to come out in an agreed position, and everything will be done as it should – the best way. Thank you for your understanding, dear colleagues. No, no, we've already got him back for work. Thank you, colleagues. Next draft law (registration number 1745), draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, regarding the medical care of participants in hostilities. National MP, author Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself as respected colleagues. [[13:49:19]] For 175 Decision taken. 175. Please, Sergey Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u180	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Bill number 1745 is proposed for you. According to recent reports, by the beginning of February this year, 1 thousand 236 fighters had been injured in the ATO, and 745 soldiers were hospitalized in Ukraine. Everyone knows that the wounded are being delivered to the nearest ATO facility. However, in addition to providing adequate medical care for injuries, injuries, or other health problems, further rehabilitation, treatment, medical treatment, and so forth were required. At the same time, obtaining compensation for the value of self - bought medicines is not provided for by law - enforcement officials. What about those soldiers who have been injured and need further rehabilitation? They certainly need medicines, prosthetics, or other medical devices. Decision No. 1923 of the Minister's Office, which was adopted in 1999, provides for compensation for expenses incurred by military military medical facilities for the provision of medical care only within the limits of the State budget. During the consideration of the bill at the meeting of the profile committee, members of the Ministry of Defence noted that today more than 60 military personnel need prosthetics in Ukraine and abroad. Therefore, there is an urgent need to address this issue, which would help to ensure the right of participants to receive social benefits, as proposed by the bill, in particular: to receive compensation for the cost of medicines purchased, I note that only by prescription of a doctor; to receive annual free medical examination and dissipation with the necessary specialists; and to provide free prosthetics for domestic or foreign production of persons with disabilities during participation in the ATO. With regard to the urgent issue, please support Bill 1745 on the basis of which the commission has reached a positive conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u181	Please, Alexander Trelyakow, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 18 March, the Committee on Veterans, Act 1745 on the Status of War Veterans, Safeguards for Their Social Protection, on the Health Care of Wargoers, and the authorship of Deputy Labazuk, considered Bill 1745 on the Amendment to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, on the Health Care of Persons with Disabilities. The bill proposes that participants be granted the right, first of all, to receive compensation for the cost of self-acquired medicines, in accordance with the procedure established by Kabmin. Today, ATO participants are already entitled to free medical prescriptions. The list of such medicines was approved by Cabinet Regulation No. 1071 as amended. I am convinced that this list will also apply if the value of the medicines purchased is compensated in the manner established by Kabmin. But that doesn't really solve the problem. Secondly, for annual free medical care and dissipation and training. According to the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine provide us with medical assistance for free. The current norm already provides for the right of ATO participants to an annual medical examination. And there is a dissipation with the necessary expertise. But once again, adding the word “free” would not change the situation. The health system needs to be fundamentally reformed, namely, the introduction of insurance. Only this issue will be resolved. Thirdly, free prosthetics of domestic or foreign production, the cost of the acquisition of a prosthesis of foreign production is proposed to be reimbursed from the State budget of Ukraine. Today, persons who are directly involved in the ATO are already entitled to the provision of medical supplies, technical and other means of rehabilitation. ATOs are the only category of citizens who are entitled to prosthetics before disability is established. The relevant amendment of the Disability Rehabilitation Act was introduced last summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u183	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u184	And by the law that is proposed, you have to first get disability and then do prosthetics, which is wrong. I'm not talking about buying prosthetics abroad. And the State will have to make amends. That's $50,000, that's $100,000. As will be stated in the declaration, that will be the price. Therefore, after considering the bill on the committee, the Committee decided to forward draft Law 1745 for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? You don't? None. It is, isn't it? None. Dear colleagues, a draft Act (registration number 1745) has been introduced for your consideration. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. You heard that you heard the report of the author of the law and heard the appropriate decision of the committee of profile, announced by the committee manager. That's why I'm putting this bill on the ground. If he doesn't get the right number of votes, then we'll go to the committee's own proposals. Please, colleagues, 1745. On the basis of this bill, 1745. I'd like you to identify yourself, Your Honor, by voting. [[13:56:00]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. There is a proposal by the profile committee that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to the draft Law. Please, I'm putting the committee to a vote on the return to processing. [[13:56:28]] For 223 The decision is not taken. A draft law is considered to have been rejected. Dear colleagues, the bill has not been passed. 13. Colleagues, the bill was not passed, we put it to the vote twice. He was not approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m0.u186	There is a proposal to deal with this issue in conjunction with the profile committee, to put it to the vote and vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Please, Mustafa Nayem did not vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] At his suggestion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, concentrate. For the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. For the return of the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Please identify yourself, colleagues. For the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. [[13:58:03]] For 226 We're back. That's better. Dear colleagues, thank you. We've got it. In accordance with the Rules of Work, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council will take place at 16 p.m. Please arrive at the Supreme Council Hall on time at 4 p.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
