ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u1	Dear fellow countrymen, good morning! Please come into the hall, take up jobs. The Secretariat would like to invite deputies to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u2	Dear fellow countrymen, good morning! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. We can start our work. Today is a very important day. We will have the opportunity to hear the message of the President of Ukraine. We will have the opportunity to consider today and approve the Legislative Reform Plan, which is being implemented by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which systematizes our work, and many other projects, laws, government initiatives that are necessary for adoption. Please prepare for registration, fellow members of the national parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. Please register, Your Honor. [[10:08:33]] Registered - 326 325 national deputies are in the hall. Dear colleagues, we are. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues, dear colleagues. Let's say hello to Tetjana Blackwall's birthday. Aunt Mikolayevna, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Sergey Petrovich Labazuk, our colleague, we welcome you. [[Applause]] And Igor Fedorovich the Motka. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to the order of the day, we will now consider making an oath to the members of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Minister of Justice of Ukraine are members of the Supreme Council of Justice. At the 12th consecutive meeting of judges, held from 25 to 26 September 2014, a secret vote by the delegates of the assembly was chosen by the members of the High Council of Justice, Natalia Alexandrovna Volkovick, Alla Sergiyevna Olijnik, Alexia Valentinovich Muraviov. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, before taking office as a member of the High Council of Justice, an oath is made. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. To make an oath to the rostrum, the minister of justice of Ukraine, a member of the High Council of Justice, Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, is invited. Your attention, please. I'd like to invite the minister to make an oath, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u3	I, Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovitch, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, professional, independent court of judges with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u4	Thank you, Pavel Dmitrovich. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Victor Mikolaiovich Shockin, is invited. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich. Please, colleagues, your attention. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u5	I, Shockin Viktor Mikolaiovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u6	Welcome, Victor Mikolaiovich, to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice. Please invite a member of the High Council of Justice, Natalia Alexandrovna Volkowitzka, to make an oath to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u7	I, Volkovich Natalija Alexandrovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding laws and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u8	Welcome. A member of the Supreme Council of Justice, Alla Sergiyevna Olijnik, is invited to the rostrum to make an oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u9	I, Olijnik Alla Sergiyevna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u10	Welcome to the office. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the rostrum to make an oath to the High Council of Justice. Alexia Valentinovich Muraviov. Please, Alexei Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u11	I, Mr. Muravyov Alexy Valentine's Day, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u12	Welcome to the office. Welcome to the High Council of Justice! We wish you success in your important work! And once again, welcome to office. Dear fellow national deputies, I've just received a statement from two. One faction and one group -- "The Opposition Block" and "The Will of the People" -- are calling for a break, but they're asking me to replace it with a speech, and I'll give you three minutes. Igor Shurma, "The Opposition Block" for a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the application for a recess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u13	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. This statement was prompted by a critical situation that resulted from the provision of medical assistance to military and civilian personnel in the area of antiterrorist operations in Ukraine. There is no need to evaluate the entire national health system. More than an honest assessment was made by the President of Ukraine at the Committee on Economic Reforms by identifying the state of affairs in the national health system as a national disaster. At the same time, we have no right not to respond to the challenges we face in connection with military events at Donbassa and external aggression. Military personnel, like the civilian population, suffer from a critical shortage of medical supplies and medical supplies. Clearly, it is not possible to create ideal security in today's socio-economic conditions in the area of combat. But there is a real opportunity to partially provide for these needs, and some medical supplies and materials and 100 percent of the government reserve that is stored on the regional bases of special medical supplies that are stored: bandages, marla, syringes, burns to stop bleeding, dressing bags, medical alcohol, autoclaves, sterilization boxes, and so on. Moreover, there is no part of this list that has been disarmed for today, and discussions on this issue have been held for a long time, and the decision cannot be made by anyone, as evidenced by the irresponsibility and incompetence of some central executive authorities, the inability to respond adequately to the challenges of crisis. I want to remind you that when the authorities need it can come up with everything to find a way out of this, which is only worth the hysteria of the "pig" flu when it's decided to disarm supplies and distribute medical supplies. At that time, the Kharkiv region was given a 50 - mile [250 km] marli, enough to cover the entire distance from Kharkiv to Dnipropetrovsk. It should be borne in mind that the initiatives that have been held back by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 22 May 2013 have been 418 "On making changes to the order of implementation of the material values of the State reserve" which is foreseen for the auction. Is it not cynicism in relation to military and civilian personnel who suffer from war and East trading? Therefore, I think the government should urgently review the Cabinet's decision and decide on the free transfer of these funds to military and territorial health facilities, while ensuring strict control over the write-offs that have been made. Clearly, the reserves of the reserve should not be reduced, so the funds provided for in decree No. 300 of March 31 can be used to fill in the national register. According to the information we received yesterday, there's nothing left on the remains today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u14	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u15	If there's zero left, that means that they're being implemented at the trades, so there's some money. I'm asking the Attorney-General to conduct a stock check.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u16	Five seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u17	Check the balance on a special delivery basis and resolve the issue positively for the military and the inhabitants of the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, according to the statement made by the two MPs about the recess announcement, the National MP Molotock has requested the right to speak. Three minutes, please. Replacing according to the application for a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u19	Igor Molotock, 160 constituency. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellow People's Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! June 8 is 95 years old from the birth of the famous legendary pilot John Mikitovich Kožeduba, who was born in the famous Sumstuce in the village of Obrazivka, in the region of Shastkin. John Mikitovich began his journey to heaven in the town of Šostka in the local airport, then in 1941 he graduated from the Chuguyov Air Force School of Pilots in 1943 and was sent to the front. He is the most effective pilot of World War II. On his account, 64 enemy planes were shot down, and at the age of 33, he was assigned the rank of Major General of the Air Force. At the end of the war, his authority and popularity were so great that he became a true legend. Although he was always simple and approachable. His name is the Parks Streets, the Schools, and the Museum of the Legendary Flyer operates in the town of Shostka. There is much to be said about the military exploits of the air ace, but above all, it should be labeled patriotic, citizen, man who was a model of commitment and fatherland. Mr. Andrey Derkach and I have registered a draft of the Supreme Council decree to commemorate the Jubilee of John Mikitovich. I appeal to you, fellow Members of Parliament, to support the celebration at the national level of the great son of the Ukrainian people, the true patriot. I believe that his figure deserves universal honor. In honoring John Mikitovich Kožedub’s memory by giving due consideration to his patriotism, we show our courage to the protection of the country today. I appeal to the head of the profile committee of Nikolay the Prince, asking to consider this draft decree and bring it to the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u20	Honorary colleagues, according to the application, have prepared a draft decree for your consideration, registration number 2010a. I would like to inform you that a statement has been made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by national deputy Dmitry Vasilovich Schlemka, who has been elected from the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, about the desire to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy in a timely manner. The committee considered the application. I invite the first deputy head of the committee to speak to you about the information on this statement by the regulatory committee. Colleagues! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention. Mikola Trochymovich, put order in there, please. Andriy Anatoliyovich, order up, please! Please, colleagues! Very loud in the hall! Dear fellow national MPs, I ask your attention once again. Sergei! People's deputy Lechchenko! National Deputy Lechchenko, I would like to draw your attention to the order of the hall. People's MP Burbak! People's Deputies of the Corner! May I have your attention, please, colleagues? Let's focus on the job. You can't report to a fellow national MP when the whole room is talking. Please. Ivan Krulko, Ivan Krulko! Please, your attention, colleagues. Would you please keep it down a little bit longer, please? Please, Paul Pinzenik, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u21	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, Committee on Rules at its meeting on 3 June this year, reviewed the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Šlemk Dmitr Vasilovic, for his appointment as a deputy in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit to the National Committee members for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the early termination of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Šlemk Dmitr Vasilovic (registration 2010a). Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. We will now vote on this ruling. I want to focus your attention on what a determination is. a statement written on its own. Dmitry Vasilovich Schlemko is present in the hall. I invite him to my word. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I declare to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the National Deputy of Ukraine is to be appointed. Motivation of such a concession is given in the statement you received today. I am Ukraine’s national deputy of four convocations: the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, and the eighth. I work for the Supreme Council for the tenth year. In the fifth call after the Orange Revolution, the majority of the Supreme Council received our Ukraine, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the SPI. However, because of the betrayal of the leader of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, an anti-national majority was created in the Supreme Council. In the sixth call, the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine received a majority of 227 votes. But for the first time, because of the tumors, most people got the anti-national Party of Regions, the Communists. And in the seventh call, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Strike and Freedom did not have the majority. Thus, as a national deputy of these three vocations, I had to work in opposition when, for certain achievements to be made, my hands, my legs were broken, my head was pierced. But we fought for the Ukrainian language, Ukrainian history, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian heroes. In this call, for the first time, the Ukrainian people entrusted the constitutional majority to the national democratic forces and especially to the young. And I think my mission as the national MP who worked this call has been accomplished. Today, Ukrainian society has a request for young, energetic, professionally trained people who own the foundations of the market economy, have international knowledge, have foreign language. So at the party assembly, when it was decided to update the Fatherland faction, I now have a mission as head of the Ivano-Frankow District Organization for 16 years to carry out the local elections: to bring the Fatherland team, as it had been before, to the elections to the extent that the electorate has determined. Therefore, I would ask in accordance with article 222 of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u24	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u25	The Supreme Council of Ukraine today to vote for the permanent cessation of my powers. This is my sincere statement, which does not contain any speculation that unfolds around it. Therefore, I ask the Supreme Council and the National Deputies to determine themselves. I've always pressed the pros button if anyone had a big wish. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! You have been presented with the draft Decree (Registration No. 2010a) in accordance with the application submitted at the request of the national deputy Schlemka to appoint him as the national deputy of Ukraine. You heard the People's Deputies. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2010) is introduced into your vote, and 2010 is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy. Please vote and please support the voluntary application or at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Colleagues, we vote! Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Acceptance of a claim at your own request. [[10:33:10]] For 218. Dear colleagues, I think everyone will appreciate, the national MP, the colleague will appreciate the desire for him to remain. But I would like to stress that this is the wish of the Ukrainian national deputy. I submit a motion for a vote, a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Schlemko Dmitr Vasilovich. Please, colleagues, please prepare, please calm down. Are you ready to vote on your colleagues? Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Are you ready to vote? Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of the request of the national deputy Schlemka for the appointment of a national deputy of Ukraine. Please vote. Colleagues, you do realize that this is the right of a deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. The human rights issue doesn't need a return. Please vote and please support this statement. [[10:34:48]] For 227 Decision taken. Please give me a minute, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, last night in a coma without consciousness. Orlenko Victor Mikolaiovich, the injured native, died. Please bring this light to mind by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u28	Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like to ask, look, now is the silence in the hall, how comfortable you can work and efficiently. When everyone starts talking at the same time, the atmosphere in the room is simple. I'd like to respect each other, because while you're in the hall, you have to understand that one of your colleagues is speaking on this stand, and vice versa. So I would very much like to take this into account. You are considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on the establishment of a secure link. Reported to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Tigran Awakyan. There is a suggestion that the rapporteur should consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please vote on the motion for a reduced procedure. [[10:36:50]] For-188. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u29	The Honourable Chief, Honourable People’s Deputies, with the aim of developing a valid Treaty on Strategic Cooperation between Ukraine and the European Police Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, along with the central executive authorities of Ukraine, have taken steps to establish a Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on the establishment of a secure link. The international agreement between Ukraine and Europol will address the issue of the establishment of a "SIENA" link between Europol in the IMF. A draft law for consideration by the IMF for the purpose of ratifying this memorandum. The memorandum was signed by the Ukrainian side on March 11, this year in Kiev, and by the European Union on March 19, this year in The Hague. The ratification of this memorandum is caused by the need to communicate information between Ukraine and Europol on the basis of an existing Strategic Cooperation Agreement, which provides for a secure link between them. In addition, a secure link will be used for a large amount of personal data with Europol following the conclusion of the Agreement on Operational Cooperation between Ukraine and that body of the European Union. It should be noted that the issue of the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine and Europol on Operational Cooperation is included by the European Commission in the action plan for Ukraine on the implementation of the visa regime with the European Union as a prerequisite for simplifying the enjoyment by Ukrainian citizens of the right to enter the territory of the European Union. The Memorandum will allow for a secure link between Ukraine and the European Union member states through the European Union through the European Union in real time. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on the Establishment of a Protected Liaison Line will create the legal basis for taking effect by means of a Memorandum that will demonstrate the desire of our State to deepen its practical interaction with European institutions and contribute to Ukraine’s efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u30	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u31	crime at national and international levels. I propose approval of the proposal to ratify the Memorandum. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. The report is headed by the committee, the deputy chairman of the committee, Andri Artemenko. European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered the draft bill tabled by the President of Ukraine and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be supported in general. In making such a decision, the members of the committee came from the fact that the approval of the Memorandum would allow for an internal procedure and would demonstrate our State’s desire to deepen the actual, practical interaction with European institutions and contribute to Ukraine’s efforts to combat the cross-border at national and international level. I would also like to inform the honourable national MPs that today's Europol liaison channel "SIENA" has been established in all EU member states, as well as in so-called non-member states. In Australia, Canada, the United States, Iceland, Norway and other countries, as well as in all international organizations such as: Euroust, Interpol, European Bank, International Customs Organization International Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction with which the European Police Office has entered into strategic and operational cooperation agreements. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which states that the memorandum may be ratified in the light of the comments made and the accompanying documents. So I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko's head of profile committee, one minute from the scene, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, obviously the session room will support this, but I will take the courage of our committee to ask questions from Mr. Habakkuk's entire session room next. You know, Mr. Awakian, yesterday the President of Ukraine took the lead on the issue of visa-free treatment and analysis of why of the 10 points that we still have the European side on, 8 did not exactly execute the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And it's wrong that we're seeing you for the first time here, that you haven't even been on the parliamentary hearings on visa-free regime, or on the committee we don't see you, so I want to inform you that we've taken a decision of the Supreme Council every month, as to how the plan of action for visa liberalisation is being implemented, and the main points there apply to your ministry, and we're waiting for part of that report tomorrow. And please ask you not only to ratify the treaties here when Parliament supports you, but to fulfil all of Ukraine's obligations to get a visa-free regime is your absolute commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, it is the proposal of the National Deputies to put to the vote the registration number of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police to establish a secure link (registration number 0025). In line with the committee’s decision, it is suggested that it be accepted as a whole. Please prepare for the vote, honourable colleagues, the issue of ratification (registration number 0025). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask 0025 as a whole the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Police Office on the establishment of a secure link. Please vote, please support, Your Honor, a total of 0025. [[10:43:49]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, you have been introduced into our collective work. There is a proposal that we now consider the draft regulation on a reduced procedure, namely the draft Legislative Plan for Reforms in Ukraine. It's a collective work called systematization of our work together. Right now, I'm going to fill you in on the work that the seven groups were doing, which involved 89 national MPs. Please support the simplified procedure for considering the draft regulation. Please be supportive. [[10:44:49]] For 201 Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to the screen, we have prepared such a small presentation of this work. Obviously, our experience shows that we need to systemize our work in order to work in a planned regime and improve the quality of legislation, and accordingly, that all our decisions are not chaoticly distinguished, but to form a single system of solving one or the other issues or transformations in one or more spheres. Why do we all understand that making decisions today or today should go back to history? This requires a certain systematization of our work together, a united effort. Because either a single MP or a separate parliament, a parliamentary apparatus can't do that. So the legislative security plan that will be presented today is the systematization of our legislative work, which. and the plan is based on -- I would like to draw your attention -- to the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, the "Ukraine 2020" Strategy, approved by the President of Ukraine, the President's Order of 2014, the Coalition Agreement, the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers, approved by Parliament and other international commitments and documents. I want to point out that this document is sufficiently integrated, and it was built in collaboration and consultation with our international partners. And you can see on the screen those organizations that were consulted about the design of this strategic document. 89 Ukrainian national deputies participated in the preparation of the plan. He worked with experts from the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the NPBO, ministries and other central executive bodies. Experts from civil organizations and international structures as well as experts from the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were widely involved in this work. Dear colleagues, seven working groups have been created that reflect the full structure of the plan itself. And you can see that the work was actually built on the basis of profiling committees. Seven groups, seven directions for making appropriate decisions: Constitutional reform and the rule of law, reform of the National Security and Defence System, international commitments by Ukraine, macroeconomic stability and economic reform as a whole, social sphere, environmental protection and environmental management, and humanitarian policy. So seven basic big blocks that integrated the problems that we're facing. The document shows that we need to adopt, today, 182 new laws that will regulate these spheres, as well as more than 300 changes to different normative instruments. The priority drafts for adoption are soon set aside (you see on the next slide), they cover all seven spheres and separate a few dozen draft laws that we have to consider first. There's a list of, uh, honorary colleagues, priority laws that we're already going to work with you. But the plan for legislative reform is the name of these laws, the essence of these laws and the spheres that they have to regulate, that is, they give us a full picture. Priority laws in various areas, such as international obligations, the social sphere, environmental protection, and in the areas that have been highlighted, including economic reforms. Next, dear friends, it's very important not just to write a plan. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's very important not just to write a plan, but to create the conditions for its execution. So we're going to set up monitoring groups based on the focal points of the working groups, which are the committee heads at the same time, and we're going to have operational control of the status of implementation of this plan with you. Periodically, once a month, we will hear a public report about the execution that will make Parliament's work more responsible. There's also going to be another electronic feature that's going to be created: the introduction of an electronic monitoring of the execution of the plan. Expected results. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'd like your attention! Colleagues, I'd like your attention! The Andriyevsky People’s Deputy! National MP Andriyewsky, may I have your attention, please? So, dear fellows, we've provided you with a system of making this document, ensuring inclusiveness by involving a wide range of experts, as well as interested parties. We do. This is a plan called for a new quality of drafts that we have to form with you. We will also build tools for effective monitoring of reforms and build an operational plan. This operational plan, your honor, will be the work plan of our committees. This operational plan will be an appropriate plan for ministries and the entire Cabinet of Ministers to take legislative initiatives. And another thing that's very important. I think that the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should take on new importance in law-making activities. And such a service could be created for the people's deputies, including if there was such a desire for a national MP, because he has the right to draft the bills himself, to provide a technical task for the institution, to form an appropriate bill that could be prepared by experts. Dear colleagues, I think this is the first step for our full systematization of work and I will be grateful for your further work in this direction. For my co-report, I invite the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knazević. Dear colleagues. Ruslan, one minute, Ruslan Petrovich, one minute. Long Olese, can I have some respect at all? Can't we? We're talking about the legislative security plan, actually the plan of our work. We're talking about a work plan that we're going to present to each of our constituents, we're talking about the essence of the changes that we're going to make. And I don't know how to distract myself from any other conversation at this point. Moreover, there are 89 national deputies in this room who, at the direction of the government, participated in the drafting of this document. This is actually the plan that needs our maximum concentration. Your attention, please. Please, Ruslan Knyazevich, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Head. The honourable colleagues, the committee yesterday at its meeting, have given a rather detailed consideration to the corresponding proposals proposed by the Head of the Supreme Council, the heads of the factions of the coalition, as well as the heads of the committees, who are, on condition, the curators of certain chapters of the relevant document, the legislative plan for reforms in Ukraine. Accordingly, after learning about the document, the committee concluded that the plan was actually designed to provide not just reforms but reforms aimed at bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the Constitution of Ukraine and to develop its provisions. You know, we have a huge problem because we have a whole series of legislation, unfortunately, either contradicts the current constitution or we, for our part, have a debt to society because we haven't adopted a huge number of legislative acts that come out of the new constitution and that are extremely urgent for the country's life. In order to achieve the goal, the authors are invited to establish some organizational positions aimed at ensuring the operational, effective implementation of plans in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. The adoption of the draft decision, according to the unanimous committee, would allow for the consolidation of all the subjects of the legislative initiative in the implementation of Ukraine’s most important software documents. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already sounded them, and I will not repeat myself. It is suggested that you consider the possibility of adopting 488 legislative acts at a time in this House. The document, which is important, also takes those parameters into account. As part of Ukraine’s commitments to the Council of Europe, international financial institutions have been approved on the basis of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. To that end, the purpose of each one is clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u38	Please finish, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u39	Every bill. All the bills are divided into systematic chapters that have a perfectly logical basis and direction for their implementation. Thus, the adoption of the draft decree will allow for the formation of legislative guidelines for real legislative reforms based on Ukraine’s programming documents and international commitments, taking into account social and scientific initiatives. In addition, it will allow for the quality of a new bill to be passed on to Parliament through the formation of a agenda for the day session, the schedule of plenary sessions, and the direct order of plenary meetings. Thank you very much. The committee's decision is to support this plan as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, Fatherland. I'd like all the deputies to take their seats in the hall. After we vote, we'll be happy to welcome the President of Ukraine. Please. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, a minute. In a minute, please, let's exchange our thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u41	Dear friends, dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I'm calling you guys, we're taking the document. Look, 365 pages thick! About 490 bills to be passed in two and a half years! Yes, it's an attempt to systematize our work. Chaos, fire extinguishing, laboring, of course, nobody likes it, and the country, so it's not good. But, Volodymyr Borisovich, we have, I'm not even taking a partition, I'm taking even one small paragraph -- "The Farm." And look, there's no word here about the land market! Here is the development of leases and the support of agriculture. Volodymyr Borisovich, two months from now, it's a solid campaign! Millions of acres will have to be planted, processed. And we didn't tell people anything. The moratorium ends in 1st January 2016. Or paralysis, or we should give the rules of the game. I'm just insisting, guys, it works when we don't just stretch this piece of legislation for two and a half years, but there are things to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, we're done for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u43	We will support, we will vote for this document. But, Volodymyr Borisovich, ask the next week a moratorium on the trade in agricultural land. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u44	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovich. I would like to say a few words, dear colleagues, before I invite Oleg Beresyuk, Victor Halasyuk, one thing. This is a living strategic document. These are not 400 pages that will lie on the shelf. It's 400 days of work if you want. It's, if you want, a day-to-day plan for making quality decisions. Including life will change. I believe that the socio-economic situation will be better. And this plan is going to need changes and corrective action, but it's very important that everyone is involved. The agricultural sector in the economic sector is a very important priority, and you'll see that. Such sensitive questions certainly need to be considered, and there is no doubt about it. Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self Help, then Victor. After a minute, please, colleagues, so that we can move on to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u45	The honourable deputies, knowing you, Volodymyr Borisovich, as a system worker, understand that it is a desire to structure what is unstructured and immature – Ukrainian parliamentaryism. But I want to support those colleagues who say it's the latitude behind which non-professionalism can hide. Dear colleagues, if we work as hard as we are now working on the Constitution, which is entirely at large, these projects deny the existence of local self-government; if we do the same as we are now working on the Elections Act, which can't go into the hall; if we do the same work as we did today on the Monopolist Act, and not on the commission that controls their activities; if we don't put the Temporary Follow-Up Commissions Act into the Hall, then we will not be effective if we do not adopt plans. But Egor Sobolev tells us in this regard that several important anti-corruption laws have been forgotten. So we ask now to put these laws into a strategic vision of the development of our parliamentary system. That's why I didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I said it was a living document, and we can form it out of a voice, because I told you what was ahead of the work two months ago, including a colleague, you would propose an introduction, and it would be put into the working order. Please, Victor Halasyuk. Please take your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u47	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, we now, right now, have to take this decision to approve this Legislative Reform Plan. Why? Because, first of all, he's completely synchronizing our efforts to Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Administration. We're in the same boat, we have to work for the good of Ukrainian citizens. Secondly, it makes our work predictable and transparent for society. It shows, including waiting for the effect of those laws that we will adopt. It shows when and what we plan to accept. It's very important. Dear colleagues, more than 60 percent of this legislative reform plan, are economic laws. We have to take them today to create new jobs, to increase tax revenue for economic development, to contribute to export growth. This is a specific work plan that has been worked together by all factions of the coalition that have been working with the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u48	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, we certainly need this plan because it is the instrument for the implementation of these reforms that we have planned in the five strategic documents. This is strategy 22, this is a coalition agreement, this is our trade agreement with the European Union, this is a message from the President, this is a government activity programme. So, dear fellows, we'll take it from here. What additional additions will be made, we will work in a living way to supplement, to supplement, and to supplement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Please support this plan. This plan is, once again, a living document that will place a commitment on Parliament to work, make decisions and support, work, make changes to the plan itself, and form changes and additions. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, dear colleagues. Dear fellow national deputies, please take your seats. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready? A draft Decree on the Reform Plan in Ukraine (Registration No. 2986) has been introduced to vote. This is the first step towards our systemic work. Please, colleagues, support this work, involving nearly 90 Ukrainian national deputies from various committees, from various political factions of Parliament. Please vote and please support, colleagues, the entire draft Decree 2986. Draft Decree on the Legislative Reform Plan in Ukraine. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:03:37]] For 256 Decision taken, my dear fellows. The factions. I want to say hello to the fact that we have a plan with you that allows us to systematize our work. Congratulations, dear fellows. I would like to inform you that today, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 106, the President's statement to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the internal and external situation will take place. In the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies. Please take your seats. The Ukrainian Supreme Council plenary meeting is attended by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, and welcome him. [[Applause]] Welcome to the words of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u51	Dear Ukrainian people! Holy Fathers! Remarkable foreign guests! Distinguished People's Deputies! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear members of the government! Each of us today, who is a person of Ukrainian authority, had a clear picture of what he was going for a year ago. You will still shudder as you recall the state of the country after the kleptocrate regime of Yanukovic for four years deliberately drove it into a national disaster; as he was sure he was doing until the end of Ukrainian history, which was planned outside Ukraine. In addition to the budget, since no one was trusted with the money, everything was given to the full management of the neighboring country. And at an accelerated rate, it dismantled the Ukrainian state. In addition to the extermination of the army, the elimination of hand services has even reached the point where in Naftogaz, a Russian citizen was involved in the issue of gas conversion from Europe. And right after the revolution, he ran off to Moscow with the whole gang. What does the memory of those days reveal? It's an annexation of Crimea. Russian fighters captured most of Donbas. Instigated by Moscow, separatists fuel the pro-Russian insurgency in Kharkiv, Odessa, Mikolayev, Herson, and many other cities. The Kremlin was preparing for the dismemberment of Ukraine. He would have known that his fifth column had finally destroyed the Ukrainian army, disarmed it, and left it naked and bare. In March 2014, a little over 5,000 soldiers were ready to carry out their tasks and if they had found fuel to get to the front. In advance, I will say that more than 50,000 Ukrainian heroes are now defending the country in the area of anti-terrorist operations. And the total number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has reached 250,000, and today we have the power to defend the Motherland. Then the militia demoralized by Maidan ran, and on the streets of the cities appeared, half-breeded but armed. Covering up the sacred names of the courtmen and the volunteers, they broke and racquetted. In the old Parliament there were regionals and communists who were trying to raise their heads every day. In the State Treasury, there was a real vacuum and even forgotten how money smells. This is because in 2010-2014 Ukraine did not borrow more than in all years of independence by 2010. What do I remember all this about? To correctly predict how it's going to be, it's very appropriate to evaluate how it is, sometimes it's worth mentioning how it was, where we jumped off the brink of death. The main task and achievement of the year that has passed is to all of us. And by "we," I mean all of us as a great Ukrainian nation, we've all saved Ukraine. Not to mention the words of Vasil Simonek: 'My people are! My people will always be! No one will destroy my people!".. Ladies and gentlemen, six months ago we created our reformist majority, started a partnership between the President, the Prime Minister, the government, the Supreme Council coalition and the Supreme Council. I am often asked: Am I satisfied with the government’s work? No, it's not. Am I satisfied with the work of the Supreme Council? Obviously not, either. I'll say more: I'm dissatisfied with my job. And I have a sin to complain about lack of criticism. It is my sin to complain about the lack of criticism in the media, the press, but no one criticizes me more than I do myself. You know why? Because the people are very unhappy with all of us. But we have no right to complain about people who trust us in the country. We should not complain about harsh demands and harsh criteria. You are MPs, ministers like me, President, not the ones that are the hardest in the country right now. Our common goal is to double and triple our efforts to change Ukraine. It is also time to analyze how our actions fit the chosen strategy, to plan the next tactical tasks and steps. With a strategic course, the Ukrainian people identified themselves during our Dignity Revolution with you and their vote in successive presidential and non-consequent parliamentary elections proved this. These three events have become a clear and undeniable factor in the European selection of Ukrainians. The end of the sad centuries has made it clear not only about external orientation but also about our own internal policies. This is a clear and irreversible course for entry into the European Union and the deep Europeanisation of Ukraine. The period of solemn pompous procedures has passed, and we have begun a difficult, routine, and copy of the domestic work of ensuring European integration. The Ukrainians ’ firm decision to return from historical manoeuvring to the modern - day European automobile did not come to the fore of all our neighbors. When the enemy began the annexation of Crimea and aggression on Donbass in February-March 2014, he planned that in a year Ukraine would disappear from the political map of Europe, referring to the European Ukraine, and we, in Ukraine, would die like these literary aberrations. In the Kremlin it was calculated that sown by Russian security forces would cause an epidemic of separatism in all eastern and southern areas. But this idea did not find support anywhere, including Donbas. Even in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, separatists remain in power only because of the Russian bayonets. And over the project by Novorosia, his authors and promoters set up a large tombstone on their own a few days ago. In just a year’s time, a country that has been accustomed to the immaculate politics of absurd pacifism for two decades has created modern - day Armed Forces. They freed most of Donbas' occupations, the volunteer battalions and volunteers, the laborers of the military-industrial complex, millions and millions of Ukrainians in a colossal patriotic drive, and the main thing is, our heroic Armed Forces -- they've all provided this miracle to the Children. On our eastern borders, we stopped the continent’s strongest army, where no miners and tractors fight against us. And as we have proved convincingly to the world, regular armed forces in the Russian Armed Forces have been formed. And despite the success of creating an army, it's fair to admit that we've done something that's a little bit different today than we did a year ago, but still the minimum level of defense of the state. We didn't even cover all the holes. At times, there is still a shortage of essentials, all the more so that the number of armies increases. And when you look at the painting in a static way, it's full of sins, not too many huge achievements today, and there's a lot of flaws. But for the dynamics, as it unfolded over the year, as it happened and as it happened, we have nothing to be ashamed of. And the Ministry of Defense volunteers have become a model of civil society and power cooperation. They are the ones who transform a conservative, thunderous, and irreversible management and security system with their daily self - sacrificing work. This system in the Ministry of Defence has been in place since Vorosilová and Beyoncé. And this titanic work needs to be continued, for the reform of the Armed Forces has successfully begun, and is still far and wide from completion. We would not have been able to stop the enemy without the broad international coalition and support of Ukraine and without the effective and effective sanctions of the entire world against the Russian Federation. They had a massive impact on the Russian economy, causing a marked fall in Russia’s gross domestic product. And this is our answer to those who were very skeptical about our coordinated actions a year ago. It is evident that tomorrow, before the Great Seven’s summit in Germany, world leaders and our trusted partners and friends will come to Kiev. On June 5th, with the first in the history of Ukraine, Ukrainian-Japanese relations, the official visit comes to Japan's Prime Minister, Sinzo Abe. And on June 6th, a great friend of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper, arrived. And this, dear friends, is a real demonstration of Ukraine's firm and comprehensive support from all over the world. Very symbolic: on the American continent, Canada and in the Far East, Japan. The whole world. And the world's impressive solidarity with Ukraine, although it's caused by a global positive impression from the Pro-European Dignity Revolution, my friends, this support is not automatically generated. It needs great, sometimes titanic, efforts of Ukrainian diplomacy, which, in order to protect the country, makes a contribution in comparison to the war effort of the Armed Forces. Thank you. And thank you on behalf of the Ukrainian diplomats. Russia opposes us not only along the state border and along the line of collision but in all countries and capitals of the world. She does not regret her almost unlimited resources. The geography of anti - Ukrainian activity is global. However, our friends in America and in Europe have maintained our one consolidated position, where Russia has failed to make a breakthrough and prevent such a failure. This is the main task that I'm putting our diplomats here and now. We experienced a strong European international unity two days ago -- at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Latvia, in Riza. Despite the fact that Ukraine is in a state of war, despite the fact that some of our borders are controlled by us despite the fact that thousands, hundreds of thousands of refugees expelled by Russia from their permanent residences are inside Ukraine, even though we have been told in non-public discussions about this major obstacle, the prospect of a visa-free regime has for the first time become a fixed place in the calendar. It's not long to wait. But to be successful, we need a proper scrap. All technical tasks must be completed by the end of August. And in September, we're expecting the last assessment mission of the European Union. And I will personally control this intense schedule on a daily basis. And the government, my partner, will feel a great responsibility to us. And by the way, it's about responsibility. As soon as I was informed that I had been pressured by the head of the State Migration Service to resign. Because it was on this line that European partners presented us with the greatest number of complaints. Finally, since January 1, 2016, the Association Agreement, which was signed a year ago, has become fully operational. Despite the futile efforts and insurmountable malice of our former strategic partner. I would very much like to see in the government the appropriate and responsible Vice Prime Minister for European integration. And I would ask the government and the coalition to resolve this very important issue for Ukraine. Large-scale macro-financial assistance from the International Monetary Fund and other international organizations, the European Union States, the United States of America, and other countries. As a most recent example, the decision of the Great Seven countries to support Ukraine in the restructuring of our external debt. All of this, along with unforgivable and very unpopular decisions and effective action by all branches of government, has helped to avoid deflation. The macroeconomic situation has been stabilized. It turned out that it was almost impossible for a warring country to pay wages and pensions without delay, to slow down the economy, to overcome the panic in the currency market. Regrettably, there are no examples in world history of a country against which aggression is being perpetrated demonstrating an economic boom and an increase in social standards. But I would like to mention the apocalyptic moods of autumn last year. Remember, stopping gas supply from Russia, a huge coal deficit, a virtual power cut all over the country -- all of this really didn't add optimism. Some were waiting for snow and ice like the end of the world. But not only did we winter with heat and light, but we also jumped, for the first time in our 23 years of independence, we jumped off a Russian gas needle. And for the first time, we provided a reverse supply of blue fuel from Europe and significantly reduced dependence on Russians. And it's called not a word, but energy security and energy diversification is what 23 years were talking about. In the country, there are no more brokers in the gas market who have been parasites in this area for decades. The monopoly and blackmail of Gazprom is over. And even though Stockholm arbitration is only 16 years old to decide on our appeal to Gazprom, we have already largely eliminated the negative effects of the 9th year contract, when the price of gas for Ukraine was 1.5 times higher or 2 times higher than in Europe. And in the first quarter of last year, our dependence on Russia on gas exceeded 90 percent. 90 percent of the gas consumed by Ukraine was Russian. And in the first quarter of this year, only 37 percent of Russian gas was exported. And we already have over 10 suppliers of gas from the European Union. And this is one of the most important changes in the strategic order, one of the most important in our reforms, it needs to be fixed irreversibly in the coming year-by-year. Reform is the key word in my message today. To create real conditions for their start, I then adopted a difficult decision to dissolve the old Parliament and the early elections to the new Supreme Council. They proved to be the most honest, most transparent and democratic in the history of Ukraine. We are with you, and for that I am very grateful to you, we have formed a reformist majority, a coalition government for which the entire coalition is responsible with a clear agenda for change. And this is where the period of reform began. If you think of yourself as a chef, you might say that a lot of dishes are already in the oven. For some, the dough is suitable; for others, all the ingredients needed are collected. There are foods that you and I didn't even know their recipe. All of this is called the current status of reforms in the National Reform Council Dictionary. By my decree, I created it from representatives of all branches of government and experts, representatives of civil society, to coordinate all reform projects. Five or six months is too small a term to get results. But the cup of patience is also full of people. And there's no other choice than to accelerate. Reforms aren't finished yet, but they're not at the start anymore. Changes and work are mostly felt by experts and participants in the process. By the end of the year, the first changes must become visible to society as a whole. We are only in the process of building the foundation of reforms. But I'm just as dissatisfied with the pace and speeding up processes as soon as the President can do it under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic. What bothers me personally and what annoys society the most is corruption and the fight against it. What do we have in our asset, apart from our firm political will? We actively create a legislative base and build infrastructure to fight corruption. The key, unprecedented, selection and appointment of the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. An independent commission of public authorities has chosen about 170 candidates. Now, in a competitive way, detectives are sought out in a transparent way to the bureau, and such meticulous selection takes some time. Nevertheless, the first detectives will appear in June, and in October the bureau will start a full investigation. The European Prosecutor’s Law has been passed, and the new Attorney General has proved to be far more active and effective than the predecessors. And among other things, the prosecution is expected to be reduced, cleaned, released, competitively selected by the new local prosecutors and their deputies. In Kiev, the new patrol service, created by Eka Zguladze, is scheduled to end the legendary roadblocks within a few weeks. Legislation has begun to regulate the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They separate the power structures from the political structures, create municipal values, and create a new police force. By the way, I see the same person as Eka Zguladze as her future forefather, a clean, non-corruption-related man who is determined to reform. Although this is a matter of course for Parliament and the government. At the Anti-Corruption Office, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of my strategy of involving foreign professionals in key positions, many specialists with a successful experience of effective fight against corruption. And this is not the only advantage of foreigners. The absence of connections in the Ukrainian political and business elite, often a lot of corruption, guarantees that they will work, regardless of the personnel. Escalators, who for several decades have been carrying cargo with money up there, have been stopped and dismantled. Sounded corruption scandals, as it does not paradoxically sound, have become a positive phenomenon. It is a catharsis, a testimony to the fact that corruption has ceased to be shyly closed, that a real struggle finally begins with it. The press and society have become much less tolerant of it, and resigning as a result of such scandals is a step forward, compared with previous times, but apparently not enough for the present. And we've learned to show corrupters, and we've learned to put searchlights on them, but criminal punishment, unfortunately, has not yet become irreversible: cases, either fall in court, or fall in court, or spread out on the way to the courts, and therefore judicial reform is the most difficult. But according to the Law on the Enforcement of the Righteous Court, new rules for the selection of judges have been introduced, and they have been established by transparent rules, finally by the Higher Council of Justice, which will lead to a decisive renewal of the judiciary. This month, the High Council of Justice, I hope to resolve the pending issues of the release of more than 300 judges, these cases are now there, and a large part of these releases is the release for proven corruption charges. Another problem is that some positive shifts are still concentrating on the top, the further down, the less real change. A lot of bribes are sitting on the middle chain, and the sums even go up, taking into account the price for danger. And the fact that corruption has begun to be seen as a high-risk operation, on the one hand, is good, and on the other hand, business is no easier than that. And people in their mass don't personally contact the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers, or even the MPs. The image of the state in the eyes of an average citizen forms a tax collector and tax collector, a social inspector. The protection, the local judge and the DAishnik, and even the district clinic, they take it, and the people won't believe in the sincerity of our anti-corruption intentions. In particular, I would like to demonstrate the first rays of light in the field of public procurement. They're still stealing, but we're making real progress right now, we're going downhill, and a lot of schematics are closing, transparency is getting bigger, and public control is getting tighter. And every tender procedure, and every year, 25,000 of them, materializes in hundreds of sheets of various documents. It's not like the public won't figure it out, it's like "the hell with the leg." What has been proved to be the first experience of advanced electronic purchases is that the economy is already 20 percent. The most active electronic help is being done by the Ministry of Defense and Defense. The concert saved more than 130 million dollars for the economy of the state to provide for the army. Electronic procurement is one of the main orientations in reforming the public procurement sector, both in charge and overhead, is the 2015-2016 task. Thank you very much. It's not easy in the coalition, I see. But, dear friends, we don't have another coalition. Unfortunately, corruption is not just a problem for the government. A survey conducted last year by the Kuchereva Democratic Initiative Foundation regarding the provision of administrative services showed that bribes in their majority are initiated not only by officials but also by applicants. 29 percent said they did, because it's easier and easier to solve problems. One in five, consider, the Ukrainian considers bribes to be a standard of living. And it applies not only to the relationship with the state, but to the process inside the business centre. Twenty-four percent of the large companies surveyed by Ernst & Yong International Consultants believe that sustained compliance with anti-corruption policies will reduce the competitiveness of their businesses. And 20 percent admitted that they considered it justified to deliberately distort financial results if it was necessary to survive businesses and to understand the economy. A year ago, when I spoke in this very room, I sounded an anti-corruption pact between society and power, which sounds very simple: "The officials don't take it, people don't give it." I can tell you today, none of the parties to this pact are. And realizing that there is a much greater responsibility in power, I ask for the help of society, to help combat this evil. And in order to get the right response, we need to adopt as quickly as possible a law that strengthens the protection of witnesses, to enter into a so-called treaty of inquiry -- that when a low-level briber is able to mitigate punishment if it helps to expose more high-ranking corruptioners. And more than that, I'm thinking about the need for a procession like the provocation of bribes. It's very simple, it's when specially trained and motivated people in the form of petitioners check every official's tendency to take. And the instrument is widely viewed as contradictory, but it will definitely increase the pressure on corrupters. The very fact that people know bribes can be provoked, where they take the risk. However, repression is only one way to combat corruption and is not the principal, much more effective economic method, which means eliminating the ghosts of corruption. Corruption has already declined where deregulation has been carried out and uncontacted human communication with a state where revoked certificates, permits, reconciliations, and conclusions have been made. It's where there's nothing to ask for money. The most recent example of the right decision. In the days of Mineconomy, a number of imported goods — from cars and tractors to children’s carts and porcelain vessels — were excluded from the certification list in Ukraine. In truth, there was no certification before, just bribed. And now the brothers won't. And they'd love to, but they're welcome. And the government approved a plan of action for regulating economic activity and simplifying the regulatory base, which includes a list of 176 specific measures and mechanisms for implementation. I fully approve of this strategy. The only thing we need to accelerate is the pace of its implementation. Sadly, no one has yet felt a great relief. And we need concrete results as oxygen right now. Any rule has value, wrote Margaret Thatcher in the book The Art of State Administration. The less rules, the less bribes. And that's the economic and deep philosophical sense of deregulation. One of the main sources of corruption at the moment is, unfortunately, government enterprises. We are moving through the competitive selection of their leaders. This year, at least 20 directors will be appointed under this procedure in the list of 50 largest enterprises. Yet the ban on privatization creates immunity for the authors of corruption schemes in the inefficient public sector. Nothing but damage to these factories and factories, with very and very few exceptions, brings the budget. Their management is usually privatized along with their financial flows. That's what's called "tiny privatization," which has already taken place. And between the political forces, from time to time, there is a struggle for directors of factories and factories. I drink one at Easter, I feed the other at Shrimp, and I anoint the lips at Easter. And it is only natural that in this order of things there are many adherents, for it is delicious, convenient and cheap. The main thing is at a foreign cost, at a public expense, at a national expense. And it's clear that the history of Ukrainian privatization, as Winnichenko said, is "impossible to read without bromine," but we have two extraordinary cases at 10 years of age that could be an example of honest, competitive and transparent privatization, I'm talking about the sale of Crevystalls in 2005 and the auctions on third generation communications this year. Yesterday I had a meeting with business leaders who invested 11 billion dollars in Ukraine at this competition. And at each international meeting, they are the best propagandists in Ukraine, where they claim that we have experienced an honest and transparent form in which third-generation licences were distributed. Because Ukraine remained in the last century on a level playing field and waited for the big bribe, not Ukraine, but those who blocked and hindered the competition. And by the way, in a few years more than half of the subscribers will be guaranteed to be connected to the third generation communication system, and in 2017, I have no doubt that the same transparent fourth generation auction competition will take place. And I certainly am for the close control of Parliament's privatisation, the more transparent it will be, the better, and for the fact that it is you, the honourable people's deputies, who will establish the rules for its implementation and the list of objects for implementation will also be set up by you for the submission of the government. We have over a thousand 800 enterprises left, and the vitals of the state are no more than 200. Of course, we're not selling the Railroad or the defense companies. But who can tell me why the state is now 14 horse factories that are also banned from privatization? Lešek Baltzerovic, speaking last week in Kiev, called privatization one of the main effective economic reforms, as well as the stabilization of the energy sector. Is it not from what we are constantly being criticized and most criticized for, that Poland has embarked on its path to success? And in the end, most of the companies that have been banned from privatization in two decades haven't received any capital injections. And doomed to lose in a competitive fight. Equipment and technology at the age of 30 last century. They won't survive if they don't get effective direct investment and effective management from the country and western investors. By the way, let's all ask the Russian companies together not to worry. Along with deregulation and privatization, another element of our anti-corruption strategy, are, dear friends, delligarchisation. But that is not the only thing she will do. Metropolitan and prominent public official Andriy Shepticki, 150th anniversary of which we will celebrate at the end of the following month, said in his book-instruction ("How to Build a Homely Book" called: Tyranny is more dangerous than corrupt aristocracy or oligarchy. But it's worse and more dangerous than democracy. Any scientist who studies the typology of political regimes will say that the so-called competitive oligarchy is, in fact, better than authoritarianism and is a transition to liberal democracy. Some countries have spent tens of thousands of years on such a transit. But we don't have that much time, and we need to act now. And I want everyone to understand that it's not a war with individual personalities, not at all; it's a war with the system. What does the State do? Signs of our actions. Our actions are with you, dear friends! It's a law on. The so-called 50 plus 1 percent stock law. This is the Law on the Market in Gas. This is the decision of the National Security and Defence Council on the electricity and coal market. And from the opaque gas smoke, the Forbes stars will no longer be lit, and the coal subsidies from the budget will no longer feed the coal-metalling barons. And where there's a control box in the state, it's going to be controlled in reality, not just on paper. And what do I get in response to this kind of policy? The splinter of private armies. Masked under the coal miners of aunts, provoked by the blasting power outages, the closing of factories, the terrible black pierre! And everyone who's being delligarchized is armed with a large national channel, and defending himself is poking at me from all the information cities! Not every one of them is a handmade, dependable and loyal political project from which they dream of growing a peaceful perspective for themselves and a terrible future for Ukraine. Will such opposition stop me? No, it's not. And the course on deligarization will continue from my self-sufficiency and independence, which is not worth it to me. Because without victory in this fight, Ukraine will not survive. Private business should manage only its own businesses, not feed on public companies or feed on fiscal flows. Yes, the authorities have a dialogue with major entrepreneurs because they create jobs. But business has no right to speak to the state authority in the ultimatum language. By the way, one of the most important decisions in deligarchisation and related democratization should be the transition to budgetary financing for political parties. And as hard as it is for us right now, these expenses I also consider to be a priority. Because the independence of the political forces is a key element of democracy in Ukraine. Last year, I personally financed my presidential campaign. The spending of my political power in the parliamentary elections also had transparent sources. And I don't depend on anyone but the Ukrainian people. It's nice to have self-determination in making decisions that others can't boast in the absence of budgetary funding, under which patriotic flags they wouldn't paint. The parties and factions must depend only on the electorate. And budget funding is a step towards that goal. And it's not an accident that this condition is embedded in an anti-corruption package that we have to accept in visa-free benchmarking. And I'm counting on Parliament to support it. An integral part of deligarchization is demonopolization, because monopolies are parasitizing on state resources, which is the economic basis of the oligarchy. The loss of cartels is now estimated at between 10 and 22 percent of the gross domestic product in Ukraine. Up to 40 percent of goods and services are now being realized in monopolized markets. This kills incentives to efficiency, to lower prices, to modernize and to improve the quality of products. They had to start by cleaning up the Antimonopoly Committee itself, which until recently, sorry for butter butter, was monopolized by monopolists. 80 percent of the heat generation is in one hand, and committeemen, no matter who blinks, say there is no monopoly. Yesterday, on the Nacrad of Reforms, I instructed the new, finally elected and approved head of the Antimonopoly Committee to apply the best world antitrust practices. And I will act with the same determination that 100 years ago Theodore Roosevelt, based on antitrust legislation, stopped the abuse of oligarchs and returned economic competition to the United States. And you have to make a political decision on maximum limits in certain markets at 50, and in the most important sectors and 30 percent. Under these new rules, break down the monopolies, leave them either to obey the strict rule of the state, or to sell a portion of their presence. And it's a free, competitive enterprise that has to be the basis of our economic model. I would also like to see tax reform that is currently being discussed in government and parliament. Traditionally, previous governments considered taxes only from the fiscal point of view. I'm sure now you and I need to activate the stimulus component of taxes. I don't think I should be involved in economic processes, and in our parliamentary-presidential model, this is the prerogative of government and coalition. Yet education and experience dictates a professional view of the logic of economic processes. And in order to increase national wealth to a sufficient extent and to ensure a high rate of economic growth, we need first and foremost economic freedom and a free economy, an energy of Ukrainian entrepreneurship that will not be restrained. There's nothing to divide, there's nothing to multiply. And so far not to social democracy. Today, we're more in the way of "theticherism" and "reganomy." And there's reason to be careful that we've been through the hardest in the economy. And I very much hope that this year will be the hardest year in Ukraine's history. And to bring peace to our earth, the reforms we have carried out have come and economic growth has come. And, if we can only escape and succeed, I am sure, now with the efforts of our International Coalition, which we have formed, we will be able to avoid full-scale invasion and stay within the framework of the peace process. Once again, from the following year, the period of postwar reconstruction of the country should begin. Economic growth will be restored and resources will be created accordingly to capture the worst social problems, to give due attention to education, science, culture, and health. We've already received little extra revenue from the budget of partly inflationary origin, partly due to detinction. And asked the government to accelerate, for at least a few months, the positions of inflation and possible wage and pension indexation. This should certainly be done neatly, avoiding any populist steps to avoid being provoked, as has happened many times before, by hyperinflation so as not to destabilize the country's financial and economic situation, and bearing in mind that some of the additional revenues we will still have to send to the Ukrainian defence. All the requirements of the Act on the Cessation of Any Special Pensions of June 1, this year, must be met for deputies, ministers, judges, prosecutors, customs officers and so forth. Third. How to adopt the law on the single principles of pensions as quickly as possible, something that has not been done for 23 years. Fourth. To enable people to benefit from, in addition to a solid, cumulative pension system and, if they want, non-state pension funds. And by the way, in a difficult dialogue with the International Monetary Fund, together with our efforts, it took a lot of hours to negotiate, we were able to lift their pension requirement, even though it's a global trend. Speaking of the most acute social problems, I can't help but keep quiet about the subject of tariffs, which is one of the most difficult and painful reforms that will probably be the most difficult. We made extremely difficult and strategic decisions. There's no going back to the unprecedented situation of corruption in the gas field, to the NAC Naftogaz deficit, which was just over 130 billion dollars last year. And this deficit was covered by the taxpayers of the state budget. And today we have to talk about this -- this is the price that the Ukrainian budget paid, and the Ukrainian tax payer for the opacity of tariff formation, they would still go through it, but it was on a government debt that led the country into default. And for this year, already in 2015, this 120-130 billion dollar deficit has been significantly reduced, and I hope it will be 30-35 billion this year. 140 and 30-35, compare these two numbers. It is worth remembering that of these solutions to the outdated tariff system, and in the past and before the reform, it was simply like the position of an ostrich who had not seen and was not going to see the problems that had accumulated and grew. And of these options, which were discussed with the International Monetary Background, we were able to stand the least severe, because the previous requirements were much more risky for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people. It would be even softer if the previous governments did not delay in solving the problem, and they did not cheat on the IMF with promises that they did not intend to keep. Unfortunately, or fortunately, this fate has fallen out of our hands. And most of all, what we have to do now, and by the start of the heating season, is to provide targeted, very simple and very reliable protection for the poor through the subsidy mechanism. For those who have little money and low consumption, the increase in tariffs has to be inconceivable, they don't have to go up, the costs they spend should be the same. And after a radical reform of the subsidy system, the right to such assistance from the State cannot be limited to anything, and local authorities must ensure that subsidies are provided to all Ukrainian families that need as many as they can with due claims. In order to improve the subsidy system, to bring it fully into line with world best practices and standards, we involve one of the world's most famous consulting companies, which, by September of the month, should significantly simplify the grant access mechanism, it must be automatic. The tariff system will also be checked by several of the most authoritative international audiences. And I call on politicians not to have a discussion on the show, but to join these companies with specific proposals for checking tariff rules. I would like to propose a few more steps that will help to protect the poor better. We will never again supply the palaces of the towns with gas and electricity prices like the country’s lubricants. And simplify, and increase subsidies, first of all, for the villagers who live in these private rural houses. I'm going to introduce a draft law on the full disclosure of tariff information, there's nothing to hide. This information is absolutely accessible and must be clear and transparent for everyone. Another position. I demand that by the start of the heating season, we update the heat consumption standards for buildings without heat-generating devices. Such buildings need to be recalculated from the actual duration and temperature of the previous heating season. According to previous estimates, this will allow between 10 percent and 15 percent of the costs paid for the past winter's heat, as an advance for the next year, that's fair, that's fair, and we have to do it. And this is a real plan to protect people in a difficult, conditioned, including a memorandum from the IMF tariff reform. On my part, it would be extremely irresponsible to take a variety of radically populist steps that are usually and traditionally explained by love for the Father and for the people, and as a result, the consequences are the most powerful, first and foremost, for the common people. Decommunization, when it comes to it, is more than mere monuments to bear; communism must first and foremost be blown out of its head. But I'm sorry, and in this room, unfortunately, I see a lot of people who are willing to capture the deceased already, and hopefully I'm hoping I'm going to have a casting slogan. It's about political priorities. Democracy and decentralization are key. We didn't just save Ukraine during the war, dear friends, we kept it democratic, and that was that, to limit rights and freedoms, we had full moral and, by the way, legal rights -- in the form of the War Status Act. But despite the political pressure from all sides, even though the legal regime of martial law gave me much more power personally, I couldn't do it. I understood what a shock and a test of his introduction would be for my fellow countrymen. Just imagine that this situation allows both censorship and banning party activity, and restrictions on movement across the country, and curfew, and general mobilization, and confiscation of property and money for defence purposes. And we cherish democracy because we believe in it because it is our value. And Ukraine can only exist as a democracy, or we will be gone. The authoritarian Ukraine will be without the support of the world, lose one of the key differences from Russia, and eventually become its prey. That's why I stayed on the parliamentary-presidential platform. And I'm going to be the first president who doesn't collect powers, but shares them with communities in the cancers of a strategic decentralization course. And by the beginning of 2015, we had strengthened the financial base of local self-government. The city’s budgets have grown by an average of 30 percent, not as much as they used to when they had to be chewed out of the State Department. I hope that the Constitutional Commission is about to complete the draft amendments to the Basic Law in part of decentralization, and you, honourable members of the national parliament, will make these changes to the Constitutional Court at the current session so that they will be finally adopted in the fall. That's how I see the calendar of this reform. The fundamental importance of the observation, decentralization has nothing to do with federalization. Ukraine was, is, and will be a unitary state. And there's a circle of issues that decentralization won't touch in any way, where, on the contrary, the role of the center will increase. This includes defence, security, foreign policy and the fight against corruption, respect for the rule of law, the rights and freedoms of citizens, the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Decentralization can then become a reality after the autumn elections of local authorities and local authorities. And it's strange that there are still people who think it's possible to postpone the election. Unfortunately, this has happened in our history, but I guarantee you it won't happen again. Yes, by the way, earlier -- please, this is a world practice, later -- again! You've never seen anything like it in Europe or in the world. The date of the vote is defined by a valid Constitution, and it's perfectly clear here. The only thing I expect from you, my dear partners, dear Supreme Council, is the new Law on Local Elections with Open Lists. I am asked if I am aware of the risks of local elections. Of course he's aware. In some regions, Moscow plans to fertilize Russian projects artificially, while in others, to stimulate the "extreme rights of Ukraine" so-called so-called so-called "extreme rights of Ukraine" so that in Europe, it is supposed to be made of Nazism in Ukraine. Plans are not original. A year ago, they hoped they would work. Now that we've revived Ukrainian intelligence, these designs are doomed. We will be determined to put an end to attempts to intervene in the electoral process by external forces. The time when the elections will take place is the "Golden Ukrainian Autumn", not the bloody "Russian Spring". In the new national security strategy, the main threat to national security is Russia's aggression in all its forms, aimed at draining the Ukrainian economy, undermining social and political stability with the aim of destroying the state of Ukraine and taking over its territory, this threat, like the sharp Damoclus sword that hangs over its head on horse hair. In these circumstances, it will obviously live, unfortunately, we have to say this, not yet another generation of Ukrainians. Without being able to approach the outside, the enemy will try to push us from the inside. Everyone once forgot that the crusade against Ukraine began with economic aggression, gas blackmail, and the total displacement of Ukrainian goods from the Russian market. On an annual scale, trade has dropped three times -- an unprecedented level of decline. In addition to real aggression and real war, a powerful economic war has been added. Russia’s aggression, draining the Ukrainian economy, beats the standard of living of Ukrainians. And the enemy does not hide his masters: convert the dissatisfaction of the tired and exhausted Ukrainians into destabilizing the situation in our country. Is it not clear that the third Kiyiv Midan is primarily spoken of in Moscow? At the same time, there is also a huge threat of renewed large-scale fighting by Russian terrorist groups. There are now 14 Russian battalion tactical groups in Ukraine with a total strength of more than 9,000 military personnel. The concentration of Russian military forces near the state border is 1.5 times higher than a year ago. The so-called Rosloventorg continues to regularly supply not only ammunition, food, goods and fuel, but also the latest weapons and state-of-the-art military equipment. A year ago, in Moscow, they promised to protect the Russian-speaking Donbas, and in fact, they turned Donbas into a testing military range for the needs of the Russian army, and they're testing the Ukrainians alive. The rifle that hangs on the wall shoots sooner or later. And this rule applies not only to the ordinary theater but also to the theatre of war. And given the well-known topographical cretinism of the Russian military, they can get lost at any time. As it happened literally yesterday near Mariana. What does it show? There was an attack near Mariana yesterday at 4 a.m. June. It's such a historic parallel. And yesterday the Ukrainian Armed Forces gave an adequate answer. We alerted the international partners, turned the artillery off the line, where it was under the Minsk Treaties, and reflected the attack on a Russian soldier. They bounced, despite the fact that the "wonderful hundred" had already begun to print again, that "we were surrounded," that "all gone," that "everything!" The end," "we escaped." And who do they work for, these authoritative Facebook and online publications? I think it's for those who immediately attempted to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Council of the Federation of Russia in the same order of day as we saw last year: the granting of permission to use the Russian Federation Armed Forces in Ukraine. I want to calm them down. Without any permission, absolutely in a brutal violation of all the basic principles of international law, Russia is cynically and publicly using its troops in Ukraine. And they were stopped only by the strength of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and by international solidarity, which strongly condemned yesterday’s breach of the Minsk Treaties. And in view of Russia’s permanent threat of a full - scale war against Ukraine, ensuring the security of our nation will remain our key priority for a long time. And anyway, in the 2016 budget, we'll go again, Mrs. Natalko, sorry, we'll go to an increase in defense spending. Because we can't protect the country in any other way. Why do we have to do this? Because today, Ukraine is fighting, however it may be, often with the weapons of the 20th century against the Russians, who are armed with weapons of the 11th century. And our task is to re-arm our army. Because the fighting spirit and the fighting experience of the best Ukrainian Armed Forces already have. The military force’s higher command force has been and will continue to be restored. I am increasing my rank and promotion to the higher positions of those commanders of the lower and middle ranks whose abilities were best demonstrated in times of war. And we're gradually moving from patching up holes and repairing old technology to modernizing, developing and improving the production of new weapons and military technology. And the development of GDP, in turn, should give technological impetus to the economy as a whole. The difference with the opponent in resources and potential should not diminish our faith in victory. Remember, David overcame a much stronger Goliath. This will be the case with Ukraine. Dear friends! I want to remind you, war is not our choice! And my Peace Plan, which was announced a year ago in this Hall, laid the foundation for the Minsk Accords, which were accepted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, the Security Council of the United Nations, approved by the whole world! By the way, it doesn't sound cynical, including Russia. And this plan is very well known. And I don't see any reason to tell it. I'd like to re-emphasize three key components, just three key ingredients. First. This is the exodus of Russian troops, weapons, technicians from all over Ukraine. The other one. Establishing Ukrainian border control. And the third. Elections according to EU and European standards Elections under European legislation to deal with real representatives of Donbas, not leaders of terrorists. I'm sure the election will open a political dialogue with the legally elected representatives of Donbas. Their conduct will allow for a halt to the humanitarian disaster caused by the Russian occupation, and for a postwar reconstruction of the infrastructure destroyed by the militants. The citizens of Ukraine, who are in temporarily occupied territories, I view as Ukrainian prisoners captured by invaders. And in this Donbas, as an integral part of Ukraine, is ready to help not only us but all our foreign friends. But investing in infrastructure restoration will only happen if they are convinced that everything being rebuilt today will not be destroyed by a full - scale Russian invasion tomorrow. Donbas has already forgotten that war as a terrible dream, as if in Moscow peace were what they wanted in Kiev. And we desire and are ready to restore all economic ties with the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk and Lugansk today, to remove all internal barriers and restrictions on the way of people and goods, but provided that we, Ukraine, regain control of the outer border as provided for by the Minsk Treaties. If not, my dears, there's nothing to complain about on the hard line of collision control. Currently, Ukrainian humanitarian goods and pensions are received by those who have registered freely from the Ukrainians. God, those who have registered in a terrorist-free territory are allowed as much as possible. There's no way to keep and feed the fighters' killers, no way to help them keep their hands on the tide of the Kiev bandits. And it would be irresponsible for both Ukraine and the inhabitants of the occupied territories to have their own power to prolong the power of the criminal-terrorist regime. Until significant progress has been made in the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, economic ties will remain at the current level. Dear fellow countrymen, speaking of war and peace, I cannot help but say that for me personally it was the most difficult in the first year of my presidency -- the pain of survival that would not even wish for my enemy's worst. Over 1,000 700 Ukrainian hero soldiers and over 6,000 400 civilians, in military statistics it's called irreparable losses, and in the heart it's a thousand rubies. And sometimes I feel like every soul on the way to the heavenly expanse flew through my office, and I talked to each one. War comes not only with death. Where death is, there is no war. And where the war, the death with her in pairs, in tandem, is tandem such a fashionable word in Russia. Please pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of everyone and anyone who died as a result of Russian aggression against Ukraine. I will never forget, and I will never forgive. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. And it would be strange if, speaking of the threat and security of Ukraine, I were to go around the NATO issue today. Russian aggression struck the myths of Soviet propaganda. And today, according to public opinion polls, the number of supporters of joining NATO for the first time in the history of Ukraine exceeds the number of opponents. On a national scale, we would easily win a referendum on the introduction, but here, after a coma, there are a few "but" objectively. The internal one is not the only question where there are still major differences between the regions and the external one. Many of our friends and partners in the West don't exactly welcome such rapid and fundamental changes in public opinion, and they're not inclined to open the door to NATO right now. I mean real, not on paper. And that's the truth that I finally have, without diplomatic distortions, a direct text to tell the country now. We are with you, honourable national MPs, in this matter we are not going to look at Moscow in any way. We will leave the Ukrainian people alone, but ignoring the opinions of our partners will be very difficult. Nevertheless, we will be very hard to defend our interests. Last year, a section on Ukraine's non-block status was removed from the Foreign and Internal Policy Act. Last month, as I said, the National Security Strategy of Ukraine was adopted, and it's the goal of NATO membership, and the Alliance's orientation is the red thread across the document. Everything we're going to do in the security field is going to be unified under NATO standards. And our task is to fully achieve all the criteria necessary for entry, which, by the way, are largely in line with the criteria for membership in the European Union. The right to make a final decision in this sensitive and extremely important area is unique — once again, once again — to the Ukrainian people in the referendum. But I'm not going to let these questions rock the country, because right now, the unity of the country is for me and for all of us is more than anything. Dear compatriots and distinguished national MPs! In the end, it will tighten the summary of our main tasks for the year: to continue deligarchization, deregulation and decentralization, to start demonization; to complete the creation of an effective infrastructure to combat corruption and to move on to a total joint attack; to start the cleansing of the judiciary; to ensure that economic growth is restored from the beginning of 2016; to complete the rehabilitation of the banking system and to carry out tax reform; to save, by the way, the only tax for small and medium-sized businesses. Special attention should be paid to the agricultural sector as one of the pillars of the country’s competitiveness in the world’s markets. It's already this year to start the wage and pension index. Clear the system of targeted subsidies for those citizens who have no new tariffs. To start reforming the health system at last, enough is enough here to "put your head in the sand" and tease people with fairy tales about free medicine. Continue to increase the cost of defence. Military: to be prepared for both the restoration of the enemy's attack on Donbas and the full-scale invasion of the entire perimeter of the border with the Russian Federation, we have to be really ready for this. Diplomats: To prevent both of these scenarios, to strengthen the international coalition in support of Ukraine before settling the situation on Donbassa and returning to Crimea, to prevent the removal of sanctions against the aggressor. In 2016, get visa-free from the EU. It's our common responsibility and our shared responsibility. I intend, by the way, to support the Go Global program that defines learning English as one of the priorities of development strategy. Ukraine now ranks among the lowest English - speaking countries and is a barrier to Ukrainians, to Western values, and to standards. This limits our access to scientific research, which is 80 percent published in English. 55 percent of web pages are also written in English. And the program, as it may seem, involves more than just young people. English is going to be a key criterion in taking up the public service, and I think it will be. And I think it should gradually be implemented in the coming years. But the priority of the Ukrainian language (unable) remains undeniable. Thank you. Ukraine lives now, I hope, in the centuries of Ukrainian, and in 2016 we will announce the year of English in Ukraine. I urge, no, I insist on the adoption of the final decision, dear friends, the lifting of the parliamentary immunity and the restriction of the immunity of the judiciary. Please continue the good track you showed yesterday. That was the right step yesterday, but it was not enough. The untouched caste must be eliminated. And the intermediate results of the next phase of the joint work we're going to take up in the fall. Under the microscope, we're going to look at the activity of every minister, and I'm not avoiding it, maybe reformatting the Cabinet of Ministers. It's not my authority, I don't film or appoint government officials and ministers. But if this is not done by the coalition itself, sometimes we can be sure that society can demand it. But my principle position, any change in government, must take place only if we preserve the true coalition and preserve the unity of the coalition. But, in turn, the unity of the coalition should not be transformed into a circular message -- there must be an honest and frank conversation. At the end of the day, let me draw attention to a small but revealing detail, the analytical materials from the National Institute of Strategic Research, for the first time, the expensive and respected national deputies, given to you, not as paper explosives, but as compact flashes. This not only shows concern for environmental problems but also symbolizes the transition to electronic governance. And I've defined this program as one of the most important for years to come. Electronic documentation, electronic services, administrative services, electronic tendering, electronic communications and petitions, digital signatures – the widest possible access of citizens to databases and state registrations – is not a key that gives new opportunities to fight democracy, bureaucracy and corruption. So the opposition to this reform, which is being done by conservatively retrograde forces, is colossal but futile. Everyone who opposes reforms and prevents Ukraine from becoming successful, namely: oligarchy, corrupt bureaucracy, the aggressor country and its few five columns, which the enemy is trying to feed in Ukraine, is losing. In the past year, I have come to believe again that we are a unique, heroic nation with a victory, with the power of the spirit that few in the world can match. I tend to my native Ukrainian people, to the strength, endurance and wisdom that the Ukrainians have demonstrated and are now demonstrating. Dear Ukrainian people, thank you for this. Thank you, my dear fellow countrymen, our country deserves success, and it will. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, according to our Rules, a break of 30 minutes is announced. The beginning of our work will take place at 1:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u53	Dear National Deputies! Break time's up. I'm asking you to come into the session room to continue our work. The Secretariat please inform the deputies that the time for work has come. And I'd like my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I strongly recommend entering the hall. Heads of factions, please mobilize the faction's special composition for participation in the work. I ask you to tell the Secretariat and the Supreme Council, and the faction secretariat, that the deputies would immediately enter the hall, and I ask you to leave the buffet, the coulaires, and enter the hall, please. Dear colleagues, we take up jobs. Let's try to start a discussion. Dear fellow MPs, I am very much asking you to come into the hall so that we can begin our consideration of the matter. So we're starting our work. According to our Rules of Procedure, after the President of Ukraine's annual letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's internal and external status, we are moving on to the issues of order in the first reading. The first bill is an extremely important bill. So the first is Bill 2953, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine. An extremely important bill allowing foreign troops, including NATO troops, to combat terrorism. And that's why I'm asking that we support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified way. Please take up jobs and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, colleagues. [[13:08:01]] For-89 Thank you. There's not enough mobilization resources yet. So let's start looking at this bill. And then in the discussion, once again, we'll confirm our position. Deputy Defence Minister Mehed Petr Mikolaiovich is invited to the report. Come to the rostrum. And respectable colleagues, may I have your attention? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u54	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to implement Presidential Decree No. 116 of 2 March 2015, which has been implemented by the Council of National Security and Defence Decision on the United Nations and the European Union on the deployment of an international peace and security operation in Ukraine. It is proposed that the issue of an international operation be settled in Ukraine by extending the grounds for the admission and residence of the forces of foreign states in Ukraine. For this purpose, it is proposed that article 3 of the draft law be supplemented by the following wording: "the provision of assistance to Ukraine, at its request, in the form of an international peace and security operation in its territory on the basis of decisions of the United Nations or the European Union". The clarification of the restrictions on the admission of military forces of other States and the requirements of the International Treaty on the Admission of Military Forces of Other States in part concerning the prohibition of entry into Ukraine of military forces of States that have failed to recognize its independence and territorial integrity or to place territorial claims against Ukraine is a solution to armed aggression. The implementation of the draft law will enable the normalization of the situation, the restoration of the rule of law and the viability of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in the Donetské and Lugansk areas in the ATO area, and will facilitate the return of residents to the displaced places of permanent residence, allow for the effective implementation of the President's Peace Plan and the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. Please support as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u55	Thank you. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report, and I continue to invite the people's deputies to the Hall, to take up jobs, a very important bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Cabinet of Ministers passed Bill 2953 "On the Order of Admission and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine. What is the difference, and what are the innovations? I just want everyone to understand, it's very important. And I'm asking that we concentrate and adopt this important bill. It's number one. We are introducing a rule that we can approach the UN and the EU on the introduction of a peacekeeping contingent. Item two. We are saying that the aggressor country cannot participate in this peacekeeping contingent even if there is a UN mandate. You know, the Russian Federation has stated that they recognize a peacekeeping contingent and this concept only when the Russian forces have a mandate. And this is a very important moment. And paragraph three. We are clear on which states, that we can cancel an invitation in case of a violation of the residence mandate, and that we should ensure proper control by Ukraine over the presence of these contingents in Ukraine. Logical changes and additions are very clear. The Committee unanimously decided yesterday to address the Supreme Council and to request the Supreme Council to vote on the basis and in general. At the same time, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to defer consideration of this law. Because the national MPs, who speak so much about their prowess and their love for the Fatherland, simply ignore their direct work as legislators, and are not currently in the Hall. In addition, I would like to inform the honourable fellow members of the National Deputies that I and the Secretary of the Committee have introduced the 2011 Bill, which is the essence of the following. We've got a lot of army growth, and the budget we've allocated, and that's a pretty large amount, there's a certain deficit in some directions. One way is to feed the Armed Forces. Because today we have the Armed Forces much bigger than the budget we received at the end of last year. And the second direction is to provide fuel-oil materials. Mr. Chairman and honourable members of the coalition, we ask that we include in the order of the 2011 daily bill, which will allow the state-owned enterprise Skrtransnaftof product, beyond budget allocations, to ship to the Armed Forces of Ukraine arrested as part of criminal oil lighting operations. This is a very important and topical subject. You know that now, not only is fighting going on, but there is learning going on, and that limit of the oil products that have been released has been practically exhausted. In fact, for a billion dollars, we're going to give more resources. Please support this bill 2953 on the basis and in general, if there is a vote and a vote of warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear speaker, we will not tolerate the question; I will simply call the heads of factions again to contact the national deputies to return to their jobs. I stress that this is one of the most fundamental issues today that allows Ukraine to engage international armed forces in the fight against terrorism. This is a very important and fundamental issue for Ukraine, which is at war with an aggressor. So I very much ask the factions to inform all the deputies responsiblely to come to the hall and take up their jobs. And while the factions' heads are calling the deputies, I'll ask the national deputies to sign up for discussion. Two for, two against. Please record. Thank you. So the word is from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u58	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! An extremely important bill, especially the second point on non-participation of the aggressor country's peacekeeping operation. The Radical Party faction will support the bill as a whole. At the same time, I would like to point out that the position of the Radical Party is that the peacekeeping contingent is to be introduced into the border of Ukraine with the Russian Federation, not on the temporary line of separation. After hearing the President's annual letter, which ended a little less than an hour ago, we note that, unfortunately, the President did not say a word in his letter about the liberation of occupied territories and the annexated Crimea. This was about defence, about improving resilience, about reforming the Ukrainian army, but no word was said about the liberation of the occupied territories. This is a fundamental question, for in recent times in the Ukrainian politics, the idea of possible exchange of occupied areas in Donbassa on annexed Crimea and so forth has begun to dominate. We are strongly protesting this and insisting that the Ukrainian army is to prepare for the liberation of the occupied territories, and that is what the requested international peacekeeping mission should serve. We vote for the bill, on the basis and in general. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u59	Heroim Slava! Thank you. Mamchure Yuri Valeriyovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is invited to the floor. From the site or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u60	Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u61	Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the need for the adoption of this bill as a whole. Because yesterday's incident in Marianca shows how the aggressor country behaves and violates all the Minsk arrangements. If an international peacekeeping mission is to be decided, we, as law-makers, need to create the necessary ground. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction unanimously supports this bill and invites everyone to take part in this important vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u63	Thank you very much. From the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Andrew Kožemiakin from the rostrum
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u64	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Not the block, but the factions of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the violation by Russia of the international treaties on security assurances of Ukraine, its independence and territorial integrity, the annexation of Crimea and the inflaming of Russian separatist and armed conflict in eastern Ukraine have put our nation ahead of the need to appeal to the world’s aid community. As a result of the inability to ensure Ukraine's control over individual areas of the border with the Russian Federation in the state's controlled terrorist territory with Russia, weapons, ammunition, heavy weapons and foreign mercenaries are systematically coming. This creates prerequisites for maintaining tension in both the ATO and the country as a whole. The unstable situation in the settlements of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, the violation by militants of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, has forced a large number of residents of these areas to leave their homes and seek refuge. Under such conditions, an international peace and security operation in Ukraine with a peacekeeping contingent is one of the most acceptable options, at least a partial solution to the problems that exist today. This will allow a measure of normalization of the situation in the region, the restoration of the rule of law and the restoration of viability, the reduction of the degree of military tension. That's why the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill and will also vote on both the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u65	Thank you. And I'm sorry for the faction name, please. Shurma Igor Mihajlovich, "The Opposition Block" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u66	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Judging from the announcement of the question, we can really conclude that this bill is very important. And if it is very important, such a bill cannot be considered in violation. Because in the future he will take such a view that this law is passed outside the law. I'd like to know what procedure we're considering this bill? In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Rules, the Chamber of Deputies should be determined by voting in favour of what procedure? Short or full consideration? Mr. Andrew, 89 votes in favour. This means that such a bill should be considered in full procedure and, according to the main answers, there should have been questions, none. What can we conclude? First of all, for all the deputies to be in the room, you have to come out with such an offer to open a session at 10 a.m. and then at least after lunch, the President of Ukraine will be present at least in full. That's the first one. Secondly, the absence of deputies today in the Hall during the consideration of this bill probably indicates that they don't really want the presence of military contingents of other states in our territory. If you didn't want to be a normal person, they'd probably be in the hall. And the faction's position, we don't deny the possibility of being in the United Nations troops in Ukraine. Because Ukraine itself is a member of the UN. At the same time, however, we are firmly opposed to the possibility of introducing an international operation into Ukraine following an EU decision. And the presence of such missions will indicate that we have a lively, conflict. Mr. Andrey, I urge you to abide by the Rules of Procedure Act and to consider it fully if there are not enough votes for another form of consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u67	Thank you for your observation. Dear colleagues, can we assume that we have concluded our discussion? We're done, aren't we? All those who wanted to speak, right? Kishkar, one more minute. Self-help. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u68	Thanks, guys. In fact, the only thing is that there is some sort of internal concern about international law regarding the presence of divisions in Ukraine. Everything else is, of course, supported by "self-help" and, if necessary, we consider it necessary to extend the powers and capabilities provided for in this law precisely within the framework of international legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Hence, all those desiring to do so have expressed themselves as provided by the Rules. So I don't think there's any violation of that. I'm asking the people's deputies, responsible vote, to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, do not go out, but go into the hall and prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that the proposal for a profile committee was accepted as a basis for the bill as a whole. He does not foresee any delay, so I am now, with your permission, putting to the vote and asking everyone to enter the hall, the draft Act 2953 amending the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Allowance and Conditions of residing in the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine on the basis of and in general. Can I have your back, please? We vote together and we vote responsibly. Please vote. [[13:26:05]] For 240 Thank you very much for the responsible position of the Ukrainian national deputies. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. 2818, draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property. And there's a request for this bill, it's also a government bill, to consider a reduced procedure. Please support me, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[13:26:47]] For 168 Thank you very much. The report invites the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Korz Ruslan Adolfovich, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u70	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Today, according to Ukraine's current privatisation legislation, the possibility of involving advisors for the purpose of preparing for privatisation and selling only objects of group "H" is a strategic enterprise, a monopolistic enterprise in the public market, an enterprise that needs an individual approach to privatization. The bill proposes to extend the possibility of including advisers to all groups of objects privatized at auctions, at competitions, and at stock exchanges, establishing that a decision to involve a consultant is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The involvement of counselors is economically beneficial, as it will ensure quality marketing of the privatization facility, promote quality pre-privatization training, promote the use of experience in the search of capable and responsible investors with international investment markets, and increase the availability of government budgets through objective pricing and the avoidance of economically unwarranted and unwarranted costs in the course of its privatisation. Note that a consultant’s involvement in the privatization process does not replace a competitive privatisation procedure but is only a tool to ensure quality and objective preparation of the object for privatization. The advisor's involvement will take place on a competitive basis. Both Ukrainian and foreign counselors with appropriate experience and qualifications will be able to participate in the competition. Please support the draft law as a means of enhancing the efficiency and transparency of the privatization process and creating preconditions for successful, large-scale reforms in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u71	Thank you. The chairman of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable people's deputies, the Economic Policy Committee on May 20th reviewed Government Bill 2818 and decided to recommend it to Parliament as a basis and as a whole. This bill introduces an amendment to article 16. It is anticipated that the Cabinet of Ministers, according to a list of enterprises subject to privatization, will determine for the State Property Fund which enterprises can be involved with privatization advisers that cannot be accessed. It's a very simple bill, and we really need it today. Please support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Really. The bill is short, but I see there's a need to discuss it in the hall, and so I'm asking you to sign up: two for, two against. Please. From Self-Help, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u74	Please pass the word "Bird" to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u75	A bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! We want to say that we support the very idea of involving a competitive counselor in the process of preparing an object for privatization. But I want to read the norm that we are now voting for, and the Economic Policy Committee is proposing to vote in general. The norm is this: The decision to involve a counselor is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm sorry, there might be a possible double treatment. This means that the holding fund can hold a competition, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (may interpret it this way) will then decide whether or not to involve a counselor; and, accordingly, which one to involve. And it is not mandatory for Kabin to make this decision on the basis of the results of this open competition conducted by the Holding Foundation. Therefore, we can support only the first reading and the second reading. And separately, I want to draw Parliament's attention and I want to go to you, and I want to move away from this practice, and I want to vote all the laws on the ground and on the whole, because you and I don't understand what we're voting for and why we don't understand why we're voting. Because this package practice "based on and in general" leads us to adopt standards that actually fail to achieve the objective described in the explanatory note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u77	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Vuk Viktor Ivanovich passes the word Halasyuk. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u78	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we support this bill in the first reading. It is an extremely good idea to involve counselors in professional privatization processes. At the same time, we stress that these counselors should be involved in transparent competitive conditions. There must be no discrimination. So Ukrainian companies, which also have Ukrainian diaspora, who have come back here to the family, who have the right experience. They should likewise be such advisers, not just foreign companies. But more importantly, I want to stress once again our party's position on privatization. It should be a systematic, planned, well-founded, not a one-time budget filler, not a fiscal tool, but a tool for strategic economic development. That's exactly what the Radical Party faction has asked the Ministry of Economics to give us for every enterprise that's included in the list that's scheduled to be privatized, asset value indicators, the proceeds of these companies, the number of employees, the revenues that they provide to the budget, and so on. We need to examine and draw conclusions very carefully. To privatize only those enterprises that need a strategic investor who lacks high cost and experience for development. There is no way to privatize woodlands and other strategic enterprises that work normally in the interests of the state today and work. So, dear colleagues, we have to have a very important position on privatization. Because only a fool sells total, mass government assets when they cost the least. A selective, planned, systematic approach to privatization, economically based to fill the budget, to ensure effective management of that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u79	Thank you. From Fatherland, Kugel. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u80	Dear friends, you don't feel like we're going somewhere in inertia. Please tell me, where do you see the privatization of state property? Do we have certificates, do we have people taking part in privatization? What do we have? We have, if you'll excuse me, a sale of state property. These are different things. Do we need the State Property Fund in such stock and in such quantity? You don't have to. It's enough for a department of professionals who can be both experts and advisors and consultants. Brothers of men, not the entire State Property Fund, but 20 to 30 people working for the result of the sale of state property. That's the first one. Secondly, I support Self-Help, which is very opaque, and for me, it's understood as an internship policy, an appointment of advisors. Knowing Ivaras' love not for the Ukrainian business, but for anyone, I understand that all of his friends in the innovative business are going to be advisors to the sale of our state property. And not enough, we're going to pay them their wages from the value that the state should get. Dear friends, such a bill is not even acceptable because there is no ideology. Once again, the looting and embezzlement of Ukrainian property has been reestablished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u81	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u82	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. At present, there is a provision for the selection of privatization objects that are to be sold by counsellors. The formation of a list of such enterprises for the payment of advisory services was approved by the State Property Fund in 2004. It also sets the criteria for the involvement of counselors. We believe that the decision on the involvement of counselors should be made by the privatization body in accordance with the criteria and financial analysis of the subject, its organizational structure, markets, and whom are allowed. In view of the importance, we believe that it can be voted on as a basis. And now I want to address, not the chairman, but the Head of the Supreme Council of Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, read the transcript, and do not sign an illegal 2953 bill that was voted in violation of the Rules Act. The summary procedure was not voted on. This means that this law was passed with a gross violation of Ukrainian legislation. I'm talking to President Prashenko of Ukraine, who was here in the hall and called for legality. Do not sign the 2953 bill, which was voted in violation. This bill, if there's enough MPs in the room, if they do their primary function in the session room, he'll get enough votes. And then there will be no precedent and no talk about this law being passed with a violation. Finally, the international contingent that will be sent here must also understand that it will be sent to Ukraine at the time of the adoption of the law in violation of gross legislation. If laws were so enacted in Europe, no peacekeeping contingent would ever go anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. From the rostrum or from the place? Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u84	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, we've got a crime privatization project going on here. Because the President was here today, he was talking about the factories that horses grow, whatever they were called. But there was no mention of the "Friendship" oil pipeline. It has been said, for some reason, that Ukrazalznica is not privatizing, and in fact, Ukrazalznica is planning to privatize it according to a bill that has been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council. And secondly, the mass of profitable enterprises and strategic state-owned enterprises. And this bill, which is currently under consideration, is an opportunity for this criminal privatization to steal even more money from the state budget. In general, the project does not define the scope of counseling. What will they even advise? What will they do? The cost of selling, consulting, and pear of the process. There's nothing to say about that. There are no coalition requirements for counsellors, no payment for their services. So it's also suggested that during criminal privatization, it's even more important to get government funds out of the budget to pay for close counsellors. That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik from the rostrum and we will proceed to the vote. And then the last word is head of the committee. Finally, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u86	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! What is the main problem of privatization? She's not in counseling, she's in rules and procedures. Let me give you some information. The Creebrisstal factory was sold for 24 billion dollars. All the factories that were sold to the Crimsonstals put $14 billion into the budget. Compare two digits: one factory and all the rest of the factories. The problem is that this factory was sold on transparent terms. Therefore, the problem of privatization is that conditions are transparent. I want to ask you a question for all of us. In order to sell factories honestly, transparently, do we need to hire a counselor and pay for it? I see no motive for adopting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u87	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. And please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for all previous speakers, but I would like Parliament not to be misled. A few words about the bill that we're about to vote on. We have in our legislation a prescribed list of enterprises that are subject to privatization in terms of which councillors are involved. [[B in m in s a l in]] The State Property Fund, on competitive terms, is taken by a consultant at one or the other company. In this bill, the government proposes that councillors be included not only on the "D" list, but on all enterprises subject to privatization. The second question. Similarly, the State Property Fund will, according to the procedure, be transparent in the selection of counsellors, but before that, an X Kabmin company decides that it is being sent to privatization. In the same decision, he decides to include a consultant on the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u89	Please finish the 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u90	That's why we're expanding today's procedure for including counselors in all businesses and before a process of privatization is launched whether another company in Kabmin decides to take a decision to privatize with the involvement of counsellor or with no involvement. It's very simple and that's why he has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u91	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. So we've had a thorough discussion, everyone who wants to take the floor, express their position, we can go to the vote, please, Your Honor, we're going into the hall to continue our work. The committee has made a proposal to accept as a whole, but I'm going to put this proposal in sequence, because some factions have expressed a position that will vote only on the basis. And that's why I'm putting the proposal to a vote, and I'm putting the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property (on the involvement of advisors to privatization) 2818 on the ground. Please support me on the basis, please vote, please vote. [[13:43:17]] For 148 The initiative did not get the required number of votes. So I will put to the vote the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Dear colleagues, the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for the drafting of Bill 2818 is made by voting. Please support, we vote, please. [[13:43:57]] For-187 The proposal did not get the required number of votes either. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day, but before that, I have an announcement. There was a request for a recess from two MP factions -- the Radical Party of Oleg Láška and the People's Front -- but they are ready to replace the Rules with a break from the rostrum. And so I invite you to speak from Anton Heratchenka's rostrum, according to two factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u92	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine! Yesterday, we agreed to prosecute Sergei Kluev, Sergey Melniczuk. Because we have shown to all the people that all of us are ordinary citizens like everyone else, and they must all respect the law. The Ministry of the Interior is investigating the criminal case of the murder of Oleg Kalashnikov. In this case, the agendas were sent to one of the People's Deputies of the Opposition Front to Sergey Levocchin, who were sent through the Supreme Council. He was summoned twice for questioning on 25 May and 28 May, twice for these interrogations and twice for not even informing why. I would like to address the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Groissman today with a request to turn to Levocchino and oblige him to come in for questioning. And I ask all deputies to support this issue. Because if Mr. Levoczyn were to show that he was elected, that would mean that he did not respect the people of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. This is for the press a request from the Minister of the Interior to Boris Groissman to oblige Mr. Levoczyn to appear, who is hiding from interrogation. Or is there anything he can do to hide in the Klashnikov murder case, anything to hide from the anti-Maidan funding situation in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u93	Thank you. I will be sure to submit the application and the request of the minister. And now, according to the Rules, we are going to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Information Act 2661. And there is a proposal to vote. consider the bill as a simplified procedure. Please support, we're voting for a reduced procedure. [[13:46:53]] For 155 Thank you. The report invites the head of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection, Zvierev Vladimir Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u94	Good afternoon, Reverend Andriy Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was drafted at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the main goal, as is surprising, is to address national security issues. We live in technological space, we use infrastructure that ensures the viability of telecommunications, transportation, and so on. God forbid that critical objects be destroyed, and in wartime conditions it is necessary to be prepared, and the cost of eliminating the consequences is tremendous. But it is equally important and in peacetime to prevent critical information infrastructure from being involved. Cyberattacks on elements, any technological system, can lead to projected effects. And there are vivid examples from history -- both Yugoslavia and Iraq, and in fact, the shutdown of transport management systems in some countries of the world. Therefore, critical infrastructures need to be protected. It's suggested in the law that you start using the term "technological information" in the legislative field. This will enable critical infrastructure subjects to be obliged to use this technology to build comprehensive security systems. Respectable national MPs are developing legislation both in Europe and in the world. Centres and national commissions are being set up to respond to computer incidents in specific sectors of the economy, including energy, water supply networks, gas supplies, and telecommunications. The world is building critical information systems.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u95	Let me finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u96	You need to start with this: defining metadata called Big Data as those that need to be protected. This is the first step, but it's important. Without doing so, you will not build a system of protection for the state. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Pavlovich. The chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Sümar Victoria Petrovna, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u98	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy at its meeting discussed the government initiative prepared by the State Information Protection Service. In general, the committee understands that it is important for us to protect technological information in times of war. At the same time, we have to say that this bill, unfortunately, is written in such a way that everything can be attributed to this technical information: from anyone. Forgive me, from any paint to the recipe of the Ukrainian mast which can protect DSTI in accordance with this law, because there is a technological process. So the proposal to the State Information Protection Service is that when you're preparing such drafts, you'll still be more careful to prepare and work with the committees, because because you meant directly, given the arguments I'm making, you didn't understand, and no one came to the committee to explain that exactly what information you're going to protect by means of this legislative initiative. And in addition, it's absolutely fair that the Supreme Council's scientific and expert office tells us that if you want to protect specific information, make changes to the State Secret Act, and the Ukrainian Parliament, understanding today's terms, conditions of war, is absolutely willing to meet all of these initiatives. To change today's legislation on information that is regulated, that is acquired and very serious on the way to reforms that reveal data to information, and thus recklessly provide, by general definition, whole blocks of information that can be closed, is against that course of openness that is now being conducted by both parliament and government. The committee therefore decided to send a draft law to the subject of the legislative initiative. You're working, and we're totally going to meet with more specific formulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign in: two for, two against. The radical party of Oleg Lazko, Oleg Lazko, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction, in general, is certainly our party, and it always supports in Parliament bills aimed at transparency in the activities of the public authorities, at transparency and access to public information. And, of course, in this regard, we support the speech of former colleague Victoria Sumar, who focused on this. But at the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that the issue of protecting information, especially critical information, is an essential element of our victory over our enemies. When the enemy annexed Crimea, when the enemy captured Donbas, entire communication systems, including special communications, were in danger. And Andrew Parobius as the leader. The Secretary of the Security Council knows what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, today, more than a year after the beginning of Russian aggression, we have not approved a cyber-protection strategy. We don't have systematic solutions to protect our information space, to protect critical information, to protect communication systems, to protect communications, to protect the Internet, to protect public space, and so on. So I think that, even though the shortcomings that have occurred during the discussion of this bill can be supported on the basis of further work on it, we can remove the norms that are causing the observations from there. Because you and I don't want to spray the baby with water! When we talk about the full openness of the information space, let's not forget that this openness is also used by the enemy. There are also people who use our openness, our democracy and everything else, and they are used against us. And then our citizens die.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Self-help, Screecher Alexyyyovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zveryv! The situation under this law shows how much we are not prepared for serious information protection work. Just like the law is poorly prepared, we don't understand what's going on in the hall. I'll give you one little example to make it a little bit clearer. The Housing System, prepared by the Ministry of Defense, is already ready, takes six months to certify it in our information protection system. In fact, we're going to extract a little piece of a very complex problem. The problem is that our computer system is past century. We're behind. We're out of European standards, we're out of European laws, and we're trying. On the one hand, we have terrible fear, we're reclassifying everything. On the other hand, we have fallen behind in both technical and constitutional standards of information protection. So I think the only way out of this is not to patch up a hairy blanket: we're going to close it, it's going to open up, Big Data, and so on and so forth. That's not right. We need completely new legislation in the information protection system. And I would suggest not just that we turn this law back into a work in progress, but that we demand the service of submission to the Supreme Council and the training of specialists of entirely new legislation that is compatible with European norms and laws. This is particularly true of our military sector. What's called C4 – Computers, Communications, Control and Command – is where we're so far behind. Because the biggest problem we have in the army is the backlog in the management systems. And management, there's nothing we can do. Because our approach to protecting information is far from what is in the world. Let's change, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u103	Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u104	Just let's do new legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u105	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction? Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, unlike the previous speaker, we clearly understand what's going on in this room right now. There is a completely non-faithful, unprepared legal act in the hall, which is being introduced by war in the east. This is what happens in Parliament almost every day. There is a normative act that can be overturned almost all of Parliament's achievements in the field of disclosure of our information. Because this law introduces a simple concept of what seems to be the technical information that gets everything. And here, I absolutely agree with the committee's position on the notion that the so-called technical information can also push tariff information, information about short orders, information about what's of interest to Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, a request is made to the authors of this bill. As far as I can see, you're about to receive this bill for further work. And that doesn't mean that the hall is burying him. The hall will give you the opportunity to prepare a quality bill. Maybe it'll be a bill to amend the State Secret Act. Maybe it'll be a law amending the Information Act. But it'll be a normal law that won't allow you to hide what you can't hide by definition. And then I fully support the committee's position, and I ask you not to vote in favour of this law, nor on the basis, nor on the whole, nor on the part of God. And to return, it is correct to return it to the authors of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Is there still a need to discuss? You haven't heard from the Peter Dusty Block yet? Yes, please turn on the microphone. Fish, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u108	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. The point is that this bill actually carries such a corrupt component. Gas, gas networks, power grids, and telecommunications networks will be the primary source of this information. Then, in order to build a building, connect to all these networks, you'll have to give either bribes or how you'll even get this information to the developer. I therefore urge Parliament not to vote in favour of this bill either.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a discussion. Indeed, this bill raised an extremely important point. Because cyberwaves, this is one of the new components of the war that a Russian aggressor is leading against us. And I'm really, as secretary of the LRA, I remember how painful this topic was at the beginning of the aggression. But at the same time, the committee notes that the bill is not prepared professionally enough. Of course, all national deputies will be able to identify themselves. But in accordance with the Rules, I will first lay the groundwork, then return the subject to the legislative initiative, and we will be determined by voting, please. The first is the committee’s proposal. It sounds like this, I remind you, to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. So the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Information Act 2661 is based on the vote. To return the subject, please vote. Please support the position of the committee. [[14:01:37]] For 193 They say they didn't make it. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, which is in the towers, take up jobs, be careful. Now, at the suggestion of the deputies, we're going to try to get back, if there's enough votes, I'm going to put the motion back on. Dear colleagues, I am voting back on Bill 2661. Please vote for the return. [[14:02:29]] For 212 The proposal did not get the required number of votes either. In accordance with the Rules, I propose to vote on the bill as a basis. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Information Act (2661) as a basis. Please vote on the basis. [[14:03:03:03]] For-95 Sadly, none of the proposals raised the required number of votes. Members of parliament are invited to participate more actively in the work. And according to our Rules, a break is announced until 16. 00. At 4:00. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed, and at 16 o'clock I'm waiting for everyone to resume our work. Please be unannounced at four o'clock. I'll see you later. Thank you.
