ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. Let's get to work. This morning's meeting we're working in plenary mode. The afternoon is work on committees, which is very important. And in general, I would like to focus on the fact that we need to work more on committees today in order to be able to work more qualitatively in plenary mode. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. I'm asking you to turn on the "Race" system for registration. A colleague of the National Deputies would like to register. [[10:04:42]] 260 deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And on your behalf and from myself, I would like to personally welcome the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies today. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, welcome. And Alexia Mikhailovich Rybkin, welcome. All the good things on earth, fellow believers! Success and well - being. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak on Wednesday. Please ask the national MPs to prepare for the recording. Please, if possible, a little quieter. Please register. Sign up, sign up. Please, Your Honor, it's done. National MP Kulinich, Rebirth Group. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to concentrate, please. We're starting our work. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We're working, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u2	Oleg Kulinic, Rebirth Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the market for agricultural land is widely discussed in society. The president of Ukraine and the head of the President’s Administration called for discussion on this issue. As a representative of the agrarian region of Poland, I would also like to draw your attention to this very important issue. Of course, a moratorium cannot be eternal. After all, to decide what to do with the land, the property of the owner, not the state. All the state has to do is lay down clear rules on land markets rather than ban them from selling. At the same time, it must be taken into account that the rapid withdrawal of the moratorium is associated with significant risks. First of all, it's possible to move large arrays of land under the control of large corporations, particularly foreign corporations. As a result, small and medium - size agricultural producers and farmers will be gradually displaced. Secondly, it's the spread of raiding by buying land in the middle of the land array and further blocking the use of this array. Thirdly, stimulating the outflow of the rural population, where labor is still lacking today, and destroying the village's social infrastructure. And these are not all possible risks. Therefore, politicians who talk about the immediate introduction of the agricultural market have, first of all, to discuss the unexpected date of withdrawal of the moratorium, rather than the legislative decisions that will avoid the risks. The MP's Rebirth Group stands for a moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land to be withdrawn, but gradually and as reasonable as possible. It is vital that we hear people, fear them, and wait for them. We need a broad public discussion of the problem, otherwise it will be difficult to talk about a positive outcome. In order to ensure a broad public discussion of this issue yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, I made a proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme "Implementation of the agricultural land market in Ukraine". I want to inform you that this proposal was supported by the members of the Agrarian Committee and a well-prepared draft of the Supreme Council Regulation on this issue, which will be considered at the next meeting of the Committee. The Rebirth MP is convinced that before deciding to take a moratorium or not, the Supreme Council should hear the thoughts of all participants in land relations. We need to discuss this with the involvement of a wide range of politicians, local councils, and the scientific community. But first of all, we need to hear people because the earth is the property of the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian people must decide how to manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, People's Republic of Solar, People's Front. Lapin? Yes, please. People's Deputy Lapin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u4	Deputy Lapin, People's Front faction, Lutsky Majority. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to let you know that maybe everyone saw in the news that we had a miners' convention and the main requirement of miners was that a minister like Demšin resign. I think it'll find support in the walls of Parliament, and yet we'll get the resignation of a man who can afford to, as they say, "screw" the miners and forget whose Crimea. Another point that I would like to draw your attention to is the Russian occupation business that is taking place in Ukraine. We demand, however, that our Self-Defense Group publish a list of companies for which sanctions will be applied, we demand that we publish a list of names of Russian businessmen for whom sanctions may be applied. And we demand that the President sign that decision of the PNB and that it be not for the DLK (for official use) but that it be made public. Europe is not afraid to publish those who are being fined, and for some reason we still cannot understand where our enemies are. Another point I'd like to pay attention to. I can't understand that we have a customs office near Chongar, we have a border there with the Russian Federation? I still think there should be a front line and no notion of trade with this territory should have been present. I have a lot of references from citizens who are on Facebook, my friends who are now there in Crimea, who are sending photos of production: "Chernigian beer fresh, Roshenka candy." I'm sorry, but I know we don't trade with Crimea, I know we have a front there, and there's a busy territory there. Maybe someone thinks like Demchisin that this is the Crimean Autonomous District of the Russian Federation? So I remind you, this is Ukraine. On the question of Demchino: Whose Crimea was he unable to answer why he signed this shameful treaty under his signature with the Russian autonomous district. And another thing I'd like to pay attention to is the Attorney General's Office. I'm looking at something like that, Mr. Shockin. You need a self-defense guest, and we're planning to come to you. Because I'm looking at how the Attorney General's Office has begun criminal prosecutions of patriots, including members of the Supreme Council, who are criticizing it. That's what we get: they come, they tell, I don't see any criminal cases on the left-hand side that sit there in the corner, and on the MPs who are criticizing and who are hurting people, you're violating criminal cases. Once again, criminal cases against volunteers who are accused of desertion are ridiculous enough to charge a volunteer for desertion without paying him for his military service, especially for those boys who are our Idar battalion. What's this nonsense? That's why I'm calling your attention: wait in the Self-Defense guest and the MPs in the office. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Wesselov, Self-Help. Alona Babak, please, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u6	I give you my word, Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u7	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, each of you today receives a large number of letters from indignant citizens regarding the issue of pricing, its opacity and the increase in tariffs. The time has come when in Ukraine we should talk about the professionality of government in the pricing of services and energy resources that provide natural monopolies, which are energy-efficient companies, gas-supply companies, as well as thermal and water-supply companies. Self-help always advocates professionalism in matters of government. What do we need to talk to you about today? It's not just the justification or not the justification, the price increases and the tariffs for our consumers. We need to pay attention today to the need for Ukrainian legislation to create conditions for every consumer to have access to information on tariff changes. What has happened today in society? We're just outraged by the lack of transparency in pricing and tariff formation. So there has to be a legislative basis through the Ukrainian Law that prepares the government today, a national electricity and utility commission that has to create all the conditions for a consumer, a professional union to have access to the tariffs prior to their approval, so that it is not a matter of any surprise to change the tariff three times, and that every Ukrainian should not ask the questions on which amounts of gas this tariff is calculated, how much we purchase from abroad, how much we produce in Ukraine, what is the calorieity of this gas or what kind of pressure it is. So today, first of all, we, as legislators, have to pay attention to ensuring this transparency in pricing and tariff formation through legislation. What else must we do today? You and I have set up a working group on the basis of three committees of the Supreme Council to study in detail and substantially increase prices and tariffs for utilities and energy media. What should be the result of this work? In fact, the report to be submitted to the Supreme Council on the evolution of tariffs, with the definition of the quality of utilities and energy carriers in tariff formation, is either not taken into account. We also need to look with you at how all energy resources are accounted for from their production stage to their sale. So, dear colleagues, let's work professionally to create, precisely, conditions so that tariff formation is not a shock.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u8	Please, Anatoly Evlakhov, "Peter Duster's Block." Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to a serious event that will take place on May 8 and 9, the 70th anniversary of the Fascism Victory. And I would like to emphasize the logic of the President's decree and our decision in the Ukrainian Parliament so that there are no double readings and discussions. On May 8th, we honor those who died in this great catastrophe, together with the European world, we think of reconciliation and how to prevent war, and on May 9 we celebrate victory. No one is going to win because Putin wanted to win in his own time, and Stalin wanted to win before he did. I want to say that the Ukrainians deserved victory on May 9, because during the war, 2.5 million Ukrainians were rewarded for their courage and courage. Among them, 2,000, 72 Ukrainians received the highest prize, 32 Ukrainians received two heroes, and John Kožedub, three heroes. Our soldiers and officers of the four Ukrainian fronts liberated Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Austria, and Germany. Under the direction of Lieutenant Alexa Beresta of the Sumstina, the Flag of Victory over the Reichstag was raised. The Second World War, the surrender of Japan, was concluded by the signature of our Lieutenant-General from Cherkaszczina Kuzma Derevyanko, who, on behalf of the Soviet Union, recorded the end of World War II. And Ukraine became one of the 50 founding nations of the United Nations in October as the nation that made the greatest contribution to defeating fascism. I would like to make it clear that this is our victory, and this victory is not taken away from us, not by Stalin, not by Putin. So we must organize the work in such a way that on May 8, we can tell the truth and honor all those who died in this tragedy, and on May 9, we must commemorate the veterans and those who brought victory. I am absolutely convinced that we are a nation and a nation that has confidence in its power and that knows what it means to win. We beat Hitler, we win Putin. Glory to Ukraine! Thank the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u10	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Paul Ungurian, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I think we are all aware that Ukraine is going through a difficult, sometimes very difficult but irreversible path of reform. We must correct the extreme situation that has unfortunately taken place during our years of independence. And today, Ukraine is finally finally becoming a truly independent state. And the main person who does this is the Ukrainian people. As servants of the people, we must be aware of this. Since January 1, a new concept of budgetary policy in Ukraine has entered into force, and budgetary decentralization has entered into force. There has been much controversy on this subject, and there have been many discussions on this subject, but the facts today are the following. Today, the income part, especially the local budgets, of the budget is profitable. Today, the overwhelming number of large, medium, small settlements in their income have received additional serious resources. For example, the city of South Odessa. The city budget is plus 55 million dollars. The city of Odessa is our southern Palmer, plus 1 billion 100 million to the city budget. It's very, very serious support, real community support. 80 percent of the environmental tax remains in local budgets. The additional 5 percent excise is still in the local budgets. Yes, indeed, there is a question. There is a question of the administration of certain taxes, there is a question of the rapid release and phase-out of educational medical subsidies through treasury bodies. There is a need to discuss the reallocation within the area of the cost between the populated areas, the cost of the additional excise, so that those populated points on the roads, on the roads, and have the autofuel stations on their territory and so on, shops, hotels, so that they can share with those items that do not have this revenue section. It all really is. But I urge us to take a clear look at all the positives of the revenue part of the budget on Friday during the government's "hour" because they really are. And where you need to be adjusted, helped, we're going to do it quickly. Let us, then, be reformed to victory!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u13	A respected Ukrainian community, a respected Leader, a respected national MP. I want to dedicate my presentation today to the vagabond or one of the most important tasks of this Parliament, is to divide the oligarhat and the state, to divide the corruption flows, to bring them into this order. As you know, the biggest abuse we have is in the energy field and the parliament, it needs to be honored, it's already taken the first steps to solve this issue. I think the second sector that needs our intervention is the financial sector, and the third sector is the land. I'm going to dedicate this speech to the financial sphere. As you know, the abuse in the financial sphere, it might not just be the refinancing that leads to the course jumps, but we also have the state banks: Savings Bank, Holdingbank and other banks. Which, at Yanukovic's time, was up to 2 and a half billion debts due to Eurobonds, then these funds were distributed to companies close to Yanukovic, and I can give you an example of Activ Solar, which is Clivva's company, and it's also Gulliver's mall, and yes, where about a billion are invested, and other companies. Now the situation is that state banks can't return these 2 and a half billion, they're declaring defaults. Why does this happen? Because in fact, if we change only the government of the bank and we leave the credit committees and other committees, the scheme works, the money goes. Banks take advantage of the fact that they are state banks, that their obligations are guaranteed by the State, and that they have the right to distribute loans to dead companies. So I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this year you and I voted that 28 billion dollars should go to the recapitalisation of banks. That's more than we're giving up to support and buy weapons for the army. That's why it seems to me that without order in the sphere of government banks, we can't have an efficient economy and we'll keep losing money. I'm done with this. I would also like to say a few more questions about the organizational work of our Supreme Council, and it seems to me that the initiatives, when we don't take breaks for political consultations anymore, and those who need to do political consultations, they go to consult and we work, are the right thing to do. I'd also like to thank you that we're finally starting our meetings at 10:00, not the same time as before at 10:05. And I think the Supreme Council is going to show a new, fundamentally high-quality policy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u14	Please, Dennis. People's MP Lozovy, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u15	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. You know, the great Ukrainian writer, our colleague Maria Matios, in her novel "Moscalica" wrote such words that "everyone loves Ukraine very much, but some like it that much." Unfortunately, we see, and very often in this room, when they cover up patriotism with banal politics, they do business, and they actually spit on Ukraine. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is preparing to submit to a number of national deputies for the removal of parliamentary immunity. Among these deputies, patriots Igor Mosiyczuk, Viacheslav Constantinowski, Andri Denisenko, and me. It is understandable why all of this is being done. I don't believe in the D.A.'s self-esteem. A shockin voted for by oligarchic groups and a thief’s block handed to the President. Is it clear that President Prashenko's accomplices from the robbery block and the oligarchic groups are much closer? It's more like coalition partners. We all understand that all this is done to intimidate patriots to break our backs, to make us humble slaves who will remain silent when someone's factory in Lipecco is more expensive than our Donbas, when someone is expelling patriots from their faction and taking sub-regions like Nesterenko into their faction when someone's worth more money than their Fatherland, when someone wants to usurp power. Pass it, Mr. President, the Attorney General, plant it, but you'll never scare us, we're scared, we're not scared. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u16	Andrew Shipko, rebirth group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u17	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35 constituency, Nicopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, dear voters, today in our country a terrible epidemic is an epidemic of poverty. People don't know how to pay gas bills, electricity, refuse treatment, because our medicine is "free," it's very expensive. They forget their diet and are generally in a state of hidden hunger. I want to give you a few numbers that will make it clear to everyone. The Cabinet of Ministers approved a living minimum of 1 thousand 176 dollars per month for an adult working person, about a half a dollar per day. And at this cost, the government is offering an adult working Ukrainian to provide himself with full food, to pay for utilities, to pay for travel, to buy clothes, and to go to the theater. Meanwhile, the poverty line, according to the United Nations, for example, in the poorest countries of Africa is a dollar of 25 centers a day, and it is only for food. Officials may not know, but according to UN standards, the poverty line in Ukraine is $5 a day or 3.5 thousand dollars just for food and below can't be or should not be. Dear government officials, how long have you been in a simple Ukrainian village or in a small town? Do you know how people survive on what's called your livelihood minimum? By lowering real numbers, you can save on pensioners, many young families, the poor themselves, and the unprotected. Because a thousand 176 dollars is not a living minimum, it's the price of destroying our people. Our team of MPs, Rebirth, has proposed a clear plan for protecting people. First, the Cabinet of Ministers should urgently implement the minimum of living according to UN recommendations, which is at least 3.5 thousand dollars per month. The other one. Count the minimum wage immediately and make changes to social payments and adjust the state budget. Third. Introduce a remember program, compensation for the cost of drugs for the population. I refer to the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Head, we, the Rebirth Group, need to put an order into the hall to postpone the increase in tariffs, the bill to reduce VAT on food, which is already in operation in the European Union. A new drug bill to lower their price. As senior MPs, we know how people live and are convinced that these steps are vital and must be reviewed immediately. We are for the real rebirth of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Sergey Skuratowski, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u19	Hello. Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Yesterday, I read the official statement by the Minister of Economics, and I hope it's a joke that our country's economic priorities are deregulation and it's guillotine. So what I want to stress is that the real economic priorities for our state are job creation, just as every country in Europe does. The first is job creation. When in a country of over 2 million unemployed, we need to overcome this unemployment, create jobs in industry, so that people can produce ready-made products, so that they can get a decent salary to fill the Pension Fund. The second priority is investment. We have to do everything today to involve foreign direct investment in industry and the real economy. To do that, you have to adopt a series of strategic laws, such as state private partnership, industrial parks, and a number of other laws that will allow new factories to be involved, new productions, so that people have jobs so that they don't live like beggars and can feed themselves, rather than live on subsidies and subsidies that they don't work. A person should live with dignity when he is working in his country. The third priority is export. Export is the driver that can pull out and the train that can pull out our economy. So the Radical Party faction consistently insists, and we will be creating an export credit agency this year to support real producers in helping them not by word, not by political declaration, but by insurance, by lending export contracts. Exports will allow us to significantly increase GDP, fill the budget. So we need not talk about deregulation and guillotine, but we need to take real steps to create new jobs in order to make loans for the real economy, so they don't have to be 35 percent -- because who can take them or turn them back? – and to be 5 to 7 percent for a domestic producer, as other countries do. It's creating powerful investment incentives to attract investments, it's stimulating exports. And all of this will allow the country to live on the taxes that are being collected inside the country. Because the economic mode that exists today when we take IMF loans, we eat them, we buy foreign goods, and we export raw raw materials abroad, it's a disgraceful path. Therefore, the Radical Party faction insists on changing its economic course. Protecting a national producer, a large-scale job creation program in Ukraine and creating investment incentives for us to live in Ukraine, as in Europe, and not only politically, but also economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u20	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to Ukrainian society, to Ukrainian citizens, saying, "Eternal paradigm of history: freedom is fought by some, and power comes to others. And then comes the wicked, subtlest form of freedom, dressed in national symbolism, marked with a national paphos, decorated with the attributes of democracy." I would like to warn the Ukrainian society about the rematch of totalitarianism that is trying to carry out through this parliamentary room today. It's hard to imagine that such things are possible after Maidan, but in fact we are at this historic stage today, when counter-revolution raises its head, when today's authorities are trying to negotiate with yesterday's misdemeanors of the Yanukovich gang and the victims of these criminal arrangements are Ukrainian patriots: those who have chosen freedom in Maidan, those who have fought on the front, on whose hill today's authorities have come to power. Today the revolution eats, tries to eat, but the teeth are broken, trying to devour their heroes. Yesterday's vote for the continuation of the dragon's powers of attorney-general, for the possibility of usurping the power of the President in the High Council of Justice, and thus for the control of the judicial branch of power, leads to the restoration of the Yanukovic dictatorship. I warn the Ukrainian society, I warn my fellow MPs: today President Poroshenko repeats Yanukovich's attempt to usurp power in Ukraine, use the prosecutor's office as a dictatorial regime, in order to persecute political opponents, in order to plant national MPs that they are not able to manage, in order to run the courts manually, as Januković did! To date, there have been those who have helped rape the Yanukovich Constitution. Why? Because they obviously want to take advantage of their services again. I'm warning the Ukrainian society about trying to rematch, which is hiding under good intentions and slogans for fighting for Ukraine, and so on. I'm addressing prosecutor Shokin, who I spoke to today, who didn't, by the way, refute the information that they're going to be filing for our deputies. Before you plant the patriots, you plant those who killed people on Maidan, you plant those who robbed the country, and then marry the patriots. Is the "chick" weak to plant Janukovich's gang and look for those who killed their brothers in Maidan?Oh, my God! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I must give you from the faction, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! I think it's a perfectly fair question that everyone who breaks the law has to sit behind bars. No one denies it, but there is no preference for patriots or patriots to break the law, so the law has to work for everyone. Now, about the charges. I think that there is a situation in the state that we must strive for unity in this state, that we must unite all those who today want to defend national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u24	Fellow MPs, listen to what the speaker has to say, return to your seats!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u25	And so I'm asking you: don't break the coalition, don't create the tension, please, let's unite for Ukraine, and this is the first thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u26	Thank you, colleagues! Fellows, please return to your seats and return to your seats as you organize the circus! National Deputy Lozov, return to your seat. On crutches, with one leg. [[B in m in s a l in]] Heroes! Heroes on the front, fellows! Heroes on the front. And you do your job, and don’t stop each other from speaking! Did you hear what Matthew said? Absolutely constructive things! Come on, let's keep working! Don't make a picture that nobody needs! Come on! [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, fellows, let's keep working! The time for the show is up. You should, you know. We have to be more tolerant. Colleagues, please take your seats! Colleagues, take your seats! Vladya, take your seats. Well, come on. Let's keep working. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats! Thank you for understanding. Dear colleagues, we have an important issue in our agenda right now: ratification issues, the draft Law on Ratification. Attention! Attention, colleagues! Draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The project is called "A Unique Credit Program for Ukraine's Restoration". The bill is prepared by the Ministry of Housing and Regional Development. He has to report to the First Deputy Minister. But before we now define the order of the hearing, I ask everyone to calm down the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Parasuk, National Deputy Parasuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] An important ratification agreement. Please take your seats, please. Ratification with the International Bank. Yes, next, Sergey Alexiyovich Taruta, Sergey Alexiyovich, take your seats, we have an important question now. The people's deputy of the lwakhs. I will now address everyone by name, by name, by father. Ivakh's national deputy, please take your seats. It's an important ratification. Roman Zastavan, please take your seats. Colleagues. Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Gennady Vitaliyovich Tkakov, please take your seats and work. National deputy Chevchenko. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. There is a proposal to consider this draft Law on Ratification under Short Procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Look, it's getting a little quieter and much better. Thank you very much, thank you. Please consider the draft Act as a summary procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:44:59]] For 199 199. Decision taken. Please report to the First Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Vladimir Alexiyovich Kistion. She's reporting to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. On December 22, 2014, in Kiev, between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, a financing agreement was signed for the project "A Unique Credit Program for Ukraine's Restoration". The purpose of the bill is to ratify the financial agreement to ensure that the project is implemented. The total cost of 200 million euros, the total maturity of 20 years, is not more than 5 years. The project "The Extraordinary Credit Program for Ukraine's Restoration" aimed at restoring the effects of the conflict in eastern Ukraine and would primarily cover areas affected by the anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas under Ukraine's control, as well as three adjacent areas, namely Kharkivsk, Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporezka, or other specific locations, which have suffered severe pressure on social services infrastructure in connection with the significant influx of internally displaced persons. The project is aimed at the implementation of priority measures for the restoration of municipal infrastructure in areas affected by the ATO and the resettlement of internally displaced persons. In particular, repairs and measures to improve the efficiency of internally displaced objects, to rebuild and restore cold and hot water systems, and to provide water, as well as to generate transmission, electricity and heat distribution. Construction of roads and railways, including damaged bridges Renovation and reconstruction of public or public buildings, including schools, hospitals, post offices, and other social infrastructure. The final beneficiaries, i.e. the project’s manufacturers, include local self - government, state or municipal enterprises, central executives, and local administrations. The projects are expected to be implemented within 24 to 36 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u28	Let me finish, don't limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u29	and will be completed no later than 2017. The project is supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Foreign Affairs, according to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, the agreement can be ratified. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u30	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Hanna Hopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u31	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I wanted you to hear me because today we're talking about taking another 200 million euros to help the situation in the east. And this is extremely important for us to provide both Parliament and the control mechanisms, how this money, this next loan, will be used. How effectively we will use the situation in Lugansk, Donetsk areas that are controlled by Ukraine, also Kharkivska, Dnipropetrovska and Zaporizka areas to make those projects that will be submitted by local communities, also those that will be selected by the government, contribute to the most effective development of this region. I want to say that the project plans to implement negative, different projects over the years 2015-2020 that will address the negative effects of events in the eastern regions of Ukraine. At the same time, I want to say that Ukraine's external debt is increasing. And we have to take responsibility for each of the following loans that we take. And our committee, even though it supported this draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, has also raised a lot of questions in committee members about how to make a transparent mechanism for public participation in spending these funds. And on May 20th, there will be separate hearings on the subject of "Control mechanisms to ensure transparency and efficiency in the use of international assistance to Ukraine." I call on all deputies, if we take responsibility and ratify such agreements, we have to take responsibility for the purpose of using these funds. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u32	Thank you. Please sign up for two, two for the other. Or we vote now. Vote? Please prepare for the vote. Draft Law by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0014). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Based on and overall ratification, the Ratification Act. Vote please, Your Honor. On the basis and in general, please support. [[10:50:50]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. There is a question of inclusion in the agenda. Please, 2670, the government bill. Informs the head of the profile committee Sergey Skuratowski. Integrating in the daytime, should I inform a colleague? Please, 2670: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of heating and housing services. Please, it's a government bill. For inclusion in the agenda only. Please support the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day. Please vote. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:52:11]] For a hundred and We didn't make it? We didn't make it. Colleagues, once again, please prepare for the inclusion of the daily draft Law 2670 (Governmental Bill) in the agenda of the day session. The committees will consider and decide on the draft law. Please, colleagues, support 2670. Colleagues, please support 2670. Please vote. It's just inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please. Please support me. [[10:53:00]] For 205 I think I need a comment from the committee head. Please, Sergey Skuratowski, comment on the bill. Alona Babak? Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! The bill, which is now being put into the agenda, has not actually been considered on the committee, because we only include it in the agenda. But this is about a bill that will address the question of setting prices and tariffs for residential services. Changes will be made to article 31 of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which will exclude the possibility of setting tariffs below the economically sound level. This is in fact a requirement for all international financial institutions to Ukraine to prohibit the further imposition of tariffs at a level below the level economically sound. We will certainly be considering this bill on the committee, but now it's just a matter of getting into the agenda. So please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u34	Colleagues! Alexander Kugel, please, a minute. Then there's Samerak's Ostrap. And then. In a minute, please. The storm will be another minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction does not support the inclusion of this bill of government, because today we have a working group with you that is investigating that there are no transparent tariffs in Ukraine. This government had to create working groups, and the law. The Ministry of Economics should have come out with a bill that would allow for a methodology for disclosing all tariffs. Today, without trust in tariffs, to adopt a law that prohibits the adoption of a law that is below the ground, please show us a justification, and then we can tell you that we agree with you. For example, I can give you information that, in the sum of 7,000, 200 NAC Naftogaz's gas costs, it takes 3,000, 451, a bracelet to close the deficit. It's justified, we agreed with you, and that's why we don't support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u36	Please, Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! The "People's Front" faction has great respect for all the subjects of the legislative initiative. I would like to remind you that there is now a vote on inclusion in the agenda, and this is not about discussing the substance of the bill. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that yesterday we worked well here with you, went through the entire agenda and voted yesterday to include the bills in the agenda, and we voted by one vote in favour of including all the bills. So I would like to urge a fellow Parliamentary to put to the vote one and ask you, Volodymyr Borisovich, by one vote all the bills that are, after repeating yesterday's practice, not to show different approaches two days ago and today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u38	Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u39	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition block will not vote in favour of inclusion in the agenda, because the adoption of the project will result in a total increase in the cost of utilities, and we will discuss it later. But I'm addressing the chairman on the Rules one last time. Today the Hall was demolished for one reason that the Rules had been violated again because the list of recorded people did not provide for Matthew. I call on the chairman one more time: don't break the Rules, you have a monitor in accordance with article 33, paragraph 4 always has a list of deputies who speak, don't take the floor. Yesterday you told me to read the Rules carefully, here's the book, look, I have it, and I recommend that you have it at your table, and then you'll be fine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u40	Please, Secretariat, present on my behalf Deputy Shurmi's current Rules. Read and then we will discuss, and if you have any questions, please refer to the Regulatory Committee. The presiding officer shall have the right to give time to reply, if mentioned, first. The second position, the time for the national MPs' speech has been exhausted, that's for your knowledge, you look closely at the monitor. Dear colleagues, please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u42	Mikhail Golovko, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u43	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency. Honorable MPs, colleagues, as if there were a number of comments about this law, especially when you read it in detail, you see such ones as are, in principle, difficult to understand. For example, tariffs should take into account the cost of thermal energy and ensure the profitability of the operator. I have a question, and what should be, five, ten, maybe one hundred percent or two hundred? Is this a private structure that should make money in the pockets of the ordinary Ukrainian people? Similarly, tariffs for utilities below economically sound levels are not allowed and can be charged in a court of law. And I have questions, and the wages that people can't live on today, and the pensions below the minimum of living are allowed? You're just thinking about how to rob the common Ukrainian people one more time. And who's going to think about how to protect simple voters, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u44	Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u45	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable colleagues, this bill is very ambiguous and, as my colleague Alexander Cugel rightly said, it causes serious concern in a number of national deputies, including the faction of the Fatherland. And in view of this, I would like to make a proposal, in accordance with article 93 of the Supreme Council Rules, for a preliminary consideration of the bill on the committees. And just after the Committee has concluded that it is appropriate to include a matter in the agenda of the day’s session, the Supreme Council makes such a decision. Since we have heard, the committee representative has made it clear that this committee bill has not been considered, so we need to give the committee a mandate now so that they will consider the bill today in order to include it, and we will be able to return to that question on the next plenary day. Now, since this bill is problematic, it should not be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u46	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u47	Colleagues, this bill has been tabled by the government as an emergency, and as a representative of the Self-Help faction committee said, these are really the demands of our international partners. And its approval is urgently needed by Ukraine and for receiving, including, the World Bank’s funds. In this regard, what I am observing now appears to be some sabotage of government bills. Obviously, today it's just about getting into the agenda, then the committee will be looking at the bill on the spot, and the Supreme Council will be defined. But not to include immediate government bills is, forgive me, a coalition crisis, and this, forgive me, is the way into nowhere in the context of responsibility for Ukraine and its economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I want to emphasize that I think it's a perfectly fair position, we have to put it into the agenda, and I'm going to put it on the committee right now, and the committee will look at it, and when we discuss the bill, we'll decide on the need to make a decision in the first reading, in the second reading. What Babak's self-help colleague said is true that these are our obligations and no one says that tariffs should not be transparent, they should be economically justified. And what's more, economic justification and verification is a very different question. But there is no doubt that this law is important, but when we discuss it, we will find the right understanding. So I would ask everyone, there was a suggestion of a hearing from the National Deputy Semirac, that we have here a number of laws that we can consider for inclusion in the agenda. I'm going to read it and put it to a vote. Dear colleagues! You will be defined by voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have bills: registration number 2670, 2529, 2529-1, 2431, 2678, 2202, 2203, related law, 2609. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of inclusion in the agenda. I'm putting Ostap Semerak's proposal to include these bills in the agenda of the day session. After that, they go to committees, you make decisions on committees, you recommend that parliament be approved or not approved. That is why this is the legal right of every national MP. Please, I am voting accordingly for the inclusion in the agenda of the laws that have just been announced at the suggestion of Ostap Semierak. Vote. Stop! Stop! And then there's 2431. I called him. You didn't hear. 2431, too. Please vote, Your Honor. Let's keep the order of the day. We'll continue to look at it on the committee. By the list. According to the list that was announced. [[11:04:48]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Did everyone vote? Caplin didn't make it, the Hen didn't make it. The jury didn't make it. Once again, I am putting the proposal to vote for the inclusion of these bills in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. For Ostap Semirac's offer. I'll bet you a vote. For the inclusion in the agenda of the drafts that I have announced. Please vote. [[11:05:34]] For 212 Colleagues, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] Baby Oleg, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to my coalition colleagues. One of the bills we are now voting for is 2678: the nationalization of the aggressor state's assets in Ukraine. And the one who does not support that bill is obviously considered normal when Russia continues to earn money in Ukraine and then finances the war against us on Donbassa and the occupation of Crimea. That's why I'm asking all the patriotic people's deputies to support the Supreme Council's proposal to vote in favour of the entire package, including Bill 2678: on the nationalization of the property of the Russian Federation and its residents in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u50	Colleagues, another is an offer made by Oleg Lazko. Victoria Sumar, one minute. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, well, frankly, the strange position that is currently being seen in the Supreme Council. We don't want to include an entire package of bills in our consideration. We've got a lot of poor things to do today, let's face it. We even finished last night. We have to show people what the Ukrainian Parliament does, except it sabotages government bills and refuses to consider parliamentary bills and initiatives. We're going to have breaks, we're going to have May holidays, we're going to have vacations, and then we're going to be wondering why there's such a low rating in the Supreme Council. I don't understand the factions of the coalition not voting on the day-to-day drafts. This is a refusal to work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u52	I don't think we're going to have any vacations, dear colleagues. We're not going to have any vacations. To be honest, we need to strengthen our work, not in the plenary, but in the committees. We have serious problems on the committees when the laws to be considered there and to be prepared for consideration in the plenary session, which are to be agreed upon and introduced into the hall, are not discussed in the committees. That's what our problem is today. And that's a separate question, a separate question that we're going to discuss with the committee heads, and a visit to the committee meeting. I want to assure you that we will make all this information public and open so that everyone can see what kind of attendance we have on this subject. Colleagues, I once again put to the vote Oleg Laska's proposal to include bills 2670, 2529, 2529-1, 2431, 2678, 2202, 2203 and 2609 in the agenda of Parliament's day session. We'll continue to look at it on the committees. It is necessary to determine whether to vote on the inclusion of these bills. Two suggestions we heard from the national deputies in the hall. Please be sure about this proposal. Please be sure to support this proposal. [[11:09:22]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u53	Thank you very much. I want to talk to our coalition colleagues. We have a lot of drafts that can be put into the hall, please. But this does not mean that any government bill without consideration and necessity will be voted on by the coalition as a whole. There's a rule of law that you passed yesterday, a bill that really fought corruption, did not personally vote on your faction, Mrs. Sumar. But what I'm saying is that we're going to support most of the bills, but we don't support the 2670 bill, because we need to have the committee's conclusions on soundness, and then we need to adopt a rule that prohibits it. I'd like to ask you again, Mr. Head, to put every bill apart and we'll really see who's against privatizing Russian aggressors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u54	Please, Oleg Berezuk, from the faction. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u55	Deputies! You know, there's a two-day process, and that's actually, if you feel, that's a little mouse ascension. There's a climb behind it. Parliament for destabilization and destruction. Dear colleagues, the MPs who have their own head, please on behalf of our faction and each of you, let's vote on the agenda and not "mouse ascension." We're being thrown into the destruction of coalition and parliament, the only weak democratic institution in the post-revolutionary state, as if it were not puffish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u56	Please. The last sentence that Oleg Beresuk made, I'm going to put it to the vote now. Colleagues, let's not, let's not create problems where she doesn't have one. We've already adopted the law into the order of the day session, and we're starting to discuss it. Please provide: 2670, 2529, 2529-1, 2431, 2678, 2202, 2203 and 2609 for inclusion in the agenda, at the suggestion of Oleg Berezuk. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:12:21]] For 215 Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. 2670, separate 2670 for inclusion in the agenda. Please determine by vote. 2670. [[11:12:46]] For-195 The decision is not taken. 2609 is a bill amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the introduction of a simplified procedure for the recognition of goods by humanitarian aid). National MP Jurinec. An important bill, in my opinion, 2609. Is he on the list? 2609 – for inclusion in the agenda. Look, please. Colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the introduction of a simplified procedure for the recognition of goods by humanitarian aid). This is a question for inclusion in the agenda. He's on the site, take a walk in and look at him, he's registered. It's on the site. A question of humanitarian aid, please. Jurinec is the author. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u57	Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dusty's Block. I am very much asking in this room all conscious MPs to support this bill. All volunteer organizations await him. You can get to know him, he's on the site, please. Because it's a cargo that's being transported, it's the humanitarian cargo of our friends from Europe who are helping the army. Please do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u58	Honorary colleagues introduced by the National Deputies Jurinec, Volosin, Podoljak, Suhević, Macola. And it was handed out so that we wouldn't show it to the Ukrainian National Deputies on April 10th. And the 8th is registered. 2609, honorary colleagues, for joining the agenda. Humanitarian Aid - 2609. Please. [[11:14:53]] For-188. Not accepted. 2203 is a draft law on introduction. Look at the factions. The factions. "Prashenka Block" – 100, "The People's Front" – 12, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 23, Radicalna – 17, "The Father's Front" – 14, "The Will of the People" – 2. It's post-faction. 2203. 2202. Bill 2202: Draft Act amending subsection 2 of Chapter XX of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Special Means of Individual Protection. 2202. Ready to vote, no, colleagues? 2202, ready to vote? Not ready. Colleagues, prepare, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't argue. 2202, ready to vote? Please, colleagues, 2202, ready to vote? 2202, voting for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please, 2202. [[11:16:34]] For 171 Not accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's coming right now. Please calm down, colleagues. Calm down. 2678 for inclusion in the agenda. 2678. [[11:17:23]] For 222 The decision is not taken. 2431. 2431. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the end. 2431. 2431, please. You look at the monitor, it shows everything. [[11:18:01]] For 158. Not accepted. 2529 and 2529-1 draft Act amending the Ukrainian laws on the restoration of circuits in Kiev Council. Please, Alexander Tretlyakov and Yuri Levchenko, authors of this bill. 2529, 2529-1, please. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:18:44]] For-166 Colleagues, there's an offer of 2678. Just calm down, or I won't put you to the vote. 2678 is a draft law on the nationalization of property of the Russian Federation and its residents. Please determine whether to vote. [[11:19:33]] For 202 No votes. Thank you, colleagues. I think it's 6467. Zero. Self-help. 21. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, listen up! Oleg. At 12 o'clock there'll be a break, we'll deal with the daytime, we'll be fine. Let's move on. Draft decrees. We're going to talk about it at 12:30, and I think we're going to find an understanding on this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Would you like a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u59	Statement. Two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u60	Come on, officially file the application and it will be. According to two factions -- the Radical Party and Self-Help -- there's a break. But they're asking for a replacement, three minutes, please, you're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the coalition! What is now happening in the Supreme Council Hall is totally unacceptable. What is an example for a society where the coalition is democratic, why isn't it working? I'm calling on the Head of the Supreme Council, to stop this "pornography," to announce now a recess at the Supreme Council meeting, to gather the Council of Coalitions, to find out why the bill is not supported. Step out of the agreed position at the Supreme Council Hall. Not to make fun of the people, not to discredit the work of the Supreme Council, which was rightly stated by counterpart Berezuk, is clearly a deliberate policy of discrediting the Supreme Council and the coalition. We also insist on voting for a bill on the nationalization of Russian Federation property in Ukraine. It is a disgrace when the Russian aggressor continues to earn money here and for the money that has been removed from Ukraine, our peaceful citizens, the people of Donbas, our military personnel, and we must stop this disgrace! So please announce a recess, assemble a coalition council, go to Parliament with an agreed position on all drafts, and be a model for society, not discredit the work of Parliament. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u62	I think there's another proposal for Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front, too, about a break announcement, and I think we can hear this proposal. It's very good that you've come to this, that you have to do this. And I'm using coalition factions to announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. At 12:30 a.m., everyone please meet in the hall without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u63	Take your seats in the hall, we can continue our work. Please. Secretariat, invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, distinguished national MPs, take our seats, continue our work. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats, we're about to make a signal vote, we're going to understand how many deputies we have in this room. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats right now. Let's make a signal vote, Yuri Vitaliyovich, invite the faction. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues! Please, we're taking our seats, now we're going to make a signal vote on the number of deputies in the room, please. Take your seats, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote! Signal vote, please. It's a magical sound. [[12:44:46]] For 215 Let's do it again. 296 cards. Yes, please. We all vote yes, then we'll see what it is now. [[12:45:04]] For 230 Yes! Please, colleagues, let's do it again. Again, colleagues! Once again, please be alert. Please. We all vote yes, and let's see. [[12:45:38]] For 234 234 votes. 84 – "Block of Peter Poshenko", "Block of Opposition" – 9, "Samhelp" – 20, "Radical – 16, "Fathership" – 13, "Rebirth" – 3, "Will of the People" – 1. [[B in m in s a l in]] Post-faction 19. Dear fellow national MPs! We've stopped with you to include issues in the agenda of the day session. As a result of the coalition’s leaders’ advice, a proposal is made to consider the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session of bill after list, again I would like to emphasize, 2670, 2529, 2529-1, 2431, 2678, 2202 related to this law, 2203, 2609. It's all for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please give a signal vote for including these issues in the agenda. I would like to point out that this is a coalition faction's decision to vote on such a proposal right now. Colleagues, please support this proposal: for inclusion in the agenda on the list that I have just announced. Please vote. I'd like to vote with you. Vote please, fellows! Signal, signal. [[12:47:55]] For 230 Please vote. 230. We are voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues, please. [[12:48:17]] For 228 Thank you, Your Honor. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 70, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 14, Will of the People – 1, and 19 are non-fractional. Dear colleagues, please focus on another important issue. At the suggestion of the Coalition Council, it is necessary to go back to the important bill that we discussed yesterday. May I have your attention, fellow members of the people's deputies, please! Draft Law 1165. We were unable to support this bill yesterday. I think today, convinced that we can support him today, return to him as a bill that was not previously supported, and vote him on the basis of the decision of the committee that was given yesterday. Dear colleagues, please prepare yourself and support the question. One minute, Oleg Barresuk. I'm asking for silence in the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u64	Mr. Head, the thing is, there's a plenary meeting going on right now, there's a press conference of deputies, there's 10 deputies standing and giving a press conference. I propose to prohibit presspoints, presspoints during plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u65	I'm giving the Apparatus a hand, I'm giving the order. [[th m in s a l i]] I'm assigning the Supreme Council apparatus to match the work of the press point to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I can feel it in applause – 226. [[B in m in s a l in]] Without hindering the work of journalists. Everything will be taken into account. Dear colleagues, please consider the proposal of 1165 to return to consideration of the bill. Please support him. Is everyone ready to vote? 1165, colleagues, please support your return to this issue. 1165. Vote, 1165. I'd like your support, colleagues, please. [[12:51:09]] For 219 Let's do it again. Caplin didn't vote. I see. 80. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1165 – Act on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Faction leaders, gather your deputies, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, draft Law 1165 on amendment. amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society, which is extremely important, in combating corruption. How can we not vote for such a bill? Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Enhancing the Role of Civil Society in Combating Corruption. Fellow national MPs, I'd like to ask you to focus again, calm down. National deputy of Gerasimov. National deputy of Herasimov, Vinnik. Please, by the name of the person. Keep your voice down. That's better. We vote in favour of the return to 1165, and ask the national deputies to support the return to this law. Please let's support 1165. [[12:53:10]] For 230 Thank you, fellow national MPs. And there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis as a result of yesterday's discussion of this bill in Parliament's session room. We've been through the discussion. 1165 on the basis, please support this bill on the basis. Vote on the basis, 1165 on the basis. Please be supportive. Just on the ground. [[12:53:43]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Here we go. All factions will work expertly and we'll move on. Please, dear fellows. Next question of the agenda. We'll consider the calendar plan tomorrow. 2619 Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Removal of Chernobyl AES Exploitation, Protection and Prospects for the Development of the Alien Zone". The head of the committee, Mikola Tomenko, reports. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. The author's proposal is short-circuited. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[12:54:40]] For 199 Thank you, colleagues. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that there have been parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on the subject of "The decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power station of the Hidden Object." And with the results of these parliamentary hearings, we offer you an appropriate ruling, based on parliamentary hearings. I want to remind you that we have a responsibility this week, since on April 26, we honor the memory of the Chernobyl victims. I hope the President will hold an appropriate meeting directly in Chernobyl. And we'll plan our work, first of all, on a special date next year. The following year, 30 years. And the proposal of our committee that the President, the Government and the Supreme Council here jointly develop a plan of action for the 30th anniversary of Chernobyl. But the structure of our document is that we predict one block so strategic. You know, we're running out of state programs by 2016. And we want the government to prepare, and we've supported the program for five years, and in the future for 2026. There's one block that's connected to its own Hidden object. You know there's going to be a donor conference in London on April 29th. And I reported to Vladimir Borisovich, and I hope that tomorrow we will vote on one very important bill for this donor conference. And so we're going to get the last tranche of funds that it takes for us to finally complete the "Hidden" and the sarcophagus. And then the world showed us that we're able to solve this level of complexity. And the third block of questions, these are social bills. We are proposing with the government to process and analyse those social programs that we think are wrong. Those who have confirmed their status in order for the Chernobylites to understand that we have not removed the issue of Chernobyl social programs and, together with the government, corrected the mistakes that have taken place. So the offer is to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u67	Don't limit it, please. Are you done, Mikolo Volodymyrovich? Thank you. Please, colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? None. There is a proposal to support this draft decision on the basis of the whole (registration number 2619). You heard the report of the head of the profile committee. Please vote 2619 as a whole. Take your seats, colleagues, let's support 2619. [[12:57:42]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question. 2570. The draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of the Russian Federation on the need to comply with the Set of Arrangements for the Implementation of the Minsk Treaties and the release of the illegally held People's Deputies of Ukraine VIII calling for the Hope of Savichenko. As reported by John Krulko. There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. Please, the offer is cancelled. [[12:58:30]] For-195 Thank you. Please, John Krulko, then report to the committee head, Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u68	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by Bill No. 2570. This is a bill that concerns our colleague, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Savachenko Hope, who is illegally held in Moscow's butthole, and Parliament must continue to take all steps to free the Ukrainian People's Deputy and the Parje member from Moscow. I would like to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has worked very closely on this draft decision. And yesterday, some clarifications were proposed for the Appeal Project, which we are about to vote on. So according to the authors of this decree, I'm going to use the time to read this statement. I'm asking the chairman to give it a chance. Address of the Supreme Council to the President of the Russian Federation on the requirement for the release of the illegally held National Deputy of the Ukraine of Hope Savchenko, all other hostages and illegally held persons, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package (February 12, 2015). On February 12, 2015, participants of the Tripartite Contact Group, composed of representatives of Ukraine, Russia and the special representative of the Head of the OSCE, signed in the Minsk Set of Arrangements for the Implementation of the Minsk Treaties. The Declaration of the President of Ukraine, the President of the French Republic, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the President of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Minsk Agreement Implementation Package adopted on 12 February 2015 was also supported. Ukraine has followed the steps taken by the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package, including paragraph 6 to ensure the release and exchange of all hostages and illegally held persons on the basis of the principle of all, which was to be completed not later than 5 days after the withdrawal of heavy weapons. Ukraine completed its withdrawal of heavy weapons from the collision line on March 7, as envisioned by the Set of Action. The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved by decree on 11 December 2014 the Appeal of the Supreme Council to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel, President of the French Republic of France François Alland, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, on the release of illegally held in custody in the Russian Federation of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, member of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to South Africa. On 13 January 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved by decree the appeal of the Supreme Council to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the President of the Russian Federation for the release of the Ukrainian pilot and the National Deputy of Ukraine on the eighth call to the hope of Viktorovna Savchenko. The Russian side did not respond. Taking into account paragraph 6 of the Minsk Agreement Implementation Package (since 12 February 2015), supported by the President of the Russian Federation, the President of Ukraine, the President of the French Republic and the Federal Chancellor of the Federation, and approved by the UN Security Council Resolution (since 17 February 2015) (No.2202) and the Protocol on the outcome of the consultations of the Tripartite Contact Group on Joint Action towards the Implementation of the Peace Plan of the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko and the initiative of the President of Russia (since 5 September 2014) The Supreme Council of Ukraine applies to the President of the Russian Federation. First, release from unlawful imprisonment in the territory of the Russian Federation of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, a member of the Permanent Delegation of Ukraine in PARE of the Savchenko Hope, which was captured on 17 June 2014 by terrorist formations in the east of Ukraine, illegally moved across the state border and held in custody in the territory of the Russian Federation. Second, to release all Ukrainian citizens, including Ukrainian director Oleg Sentsov, who had been captured in Ukraine, who had been transferred to the territory of the Russian Federation and were illegally detained in spite of their will. Third: to use all its influence on the illegal armed formations that operate in individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk with the aim of immediate release of hostages and illegally held persons according to the principle of everyone. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention and I ask you unanimously to support this important draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u69	Please sign two for, two against. Excuse me, Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze of the committee, please. Please, Mrs. Ivanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 22 April 2015, considered the request of the People's Deputies of John Krulk and other draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of the Russian Federation on the requirement of the release of the illegally held National Deputy of Ukraine to the Third Call of the Hope of Savchenko, all other hostages and illegally held persons, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package of 12 February 2015. The bill, as you can understand, suggests that the President of the Russian Federation should be called upon to implement a set of measures, to execute the Minsk Accords and to release the illegally held National Deputy of Ukraine, the Third Calling of the Hope of Savichenko and other Ukrainian citizens who have been captured, transferred to the territory of the Russian Federation and, contrary to their will, illegally detained in Russia. The adoption of the decree will contribute to the observance of their constitutional rights as citizens of Ukraine. According to an explanatory note by the drafters of the bill, the adoption of the draft law would not result in additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this draft decision on the basis and in general with the proposed Committee changes and additions that have just been read by Mr. Krulk in the final version of this decision. I would like to point out that the committee considers it appropriate to refer to the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, with such a requirement, because he is one of the guarantors of the implementation of the Minsk Agreements and has the importance of resolving the issue of the release of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Hope Saucenko and other Ukrainian citizens who are illegally detained in the territory of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u71	Please don't limit it, please finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u72	Please support this decision of the committee and support it, vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u73	Thank you, colleagues. Two for, two against. Is there a need? Yes. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. National MP Velitchovich Mikola, People's Front. Please. Victoria Sumar?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u74	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u75	Victoria Sumar and then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, well, it is obvious that the whole country today is in pain, a great deal of pain, and is watching the fate of the Ukrainian hero Hope Saucenko. Thank you very much both the factions, and Julia Timoshenko, especially for the fact that today this issue is constantly raised in the Ukrainian Parliament. But with regard to this decision. We understand that it has a political character. Let us be clear in our political assessments. A political assessment is that Vladimir Putin is actually violating the Minsk Accords by keeping Nadia Saucenko. Let's be clear and call it very specific and correct, about the non-admissibility of violating the Minsk Accords, and keeping in the hostages of Hope Saucenko. And it's not a conversion, it's just about compliance, and it's exactly the right thing to do. This is a fixation of a political fact and this is unacceptable. Russia is disrupting the world’s order after World War II by starting a war in Ukraine, violating all principles of humanism by holding hostages in fact who have been illegally captured in Ukraine and we have an honest confession to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Certainly our faction for the immediate release of our fellow Ukrainian national deputy, member of the PARJE Hope Savechenko, from the Russian captivity where she is held hostage. But at the same time, we can't support this draft regulation, if you carefully read its text, you can call it the "lowest request." Here we are doing, we are so good, but you use, Your Honor Putin, your influence on illegal weapons formation, please do your part and so forth. This "please" may even have had to be read on your knees, not standing with your head high. Savechenko is not broken in captivity, so we should follow her example, we must stand firm in the position of Ukraine. Hope is starving, hope is giving its life, hope has buried its health in Russian captivity, but it has not betrayed Putin. I can imagine how many times they came to her to sign an application there to Putin and get her released immediately, but for her the honor, conscience and honour of the country in the first place should be the same for us. That's why we're voting for the second text of the decision to impose sanctions against Putin, for the illegal imprisonment of Hope Savchenko, which is why we vote. We're voting on any request for the release of the Savechenko Hope, but it shouldn't be an "application" to an aggressor. No, it's "please," read the text you wrote. We will not be humiliated in front of Putin, Putin is killing our people, Putin has occupied our Crimea and our Donbas. And so the only way to do that is to beat the enemy, not ask him to bow down, to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u79	Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that yesterday our faction just asked the authors of this decree to at least edit it so that it would, indeed, be a statement of fact, not an appeal to the leader of the aggressor country about something there with a request to him. Because it is not acceptable for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ask the leader of the aggressor country. I want to stress that our political power, our faction, and Solidarity, and the strike party, and President Poshenko, are doing everything they can to make the whole world aware of the personal role of the leader of the aggressor country, both in arrest and in keeping with the Saucenko Hope and in consolidating the world for its liberation. President Poshenko met with the Red Cross yesterday, and today, during his visit to France, he raises the question of Hope Savchenko during a meeting with President Holland. We would like to point out that today, the Ukrainian Parliamentary Delegation in its entirety, which participates in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and where the Ukrainian question is being discussed in the same way today, raises questions about what has not been implemented and the resolution of the PARJE on the release of the Savachenko Hope, which is not only a member of the Ukrainian Parliament, but also a member of the delegation to the Council of Europe. To tell you the truth, dear fellows, we now have a dilemma about this determination, because we support it, because we are consistent in that everything that depends on our political power, on every MP, on the WFP for the release of hope, we will do. But we want to ask our fellow MPs, so let's still be responsible in our legislative work, so we can still produce the product that makes sense. Because, to be honest, I don't see the point in this kind of decision myself. Well, unfortunately, Putin won't read them. And we need to consolidate in order to unite the world in pressure against the aggressor. This way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, on a daily basis in the process of discussion -- we have this decision -- we have a proposal. Please, 30 seconds, the author. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u82	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! I would like to point out from the authors of this decree that we support the editorial change that was read by the representative of the People's Front faction, Victoria Sümar, regarding the clarification of the name of this address, which refers to the inadmissibility of unlawfully retaining the people's MP and his immediate release. I ask that what was read by Victoria Sumar be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u83	With Victoria Sumar you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u84	Edit to match the name. In the Committee's version, according to the committee's decision with this right. In the committee's decision, and to conduct technical legal proceedings. Yeah? All right, then we vote in the committee's version. We're voting on this proposal and technical law. [[13:13:39]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next question is: 2571. There is a proposal to vote 2571 without discussion. Does the committee support this? Does the author support this? 2571, edited by the Committee on Legal and Technical Rights on the basis and as a whole. It's in the committee's office. Please say yes. I didn't press there. [[13:14:20]] For 248 Colleagues, I ask you to vote. I didn't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer, fellow officers, to return, my right as a national deputy has been violated. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please return to your application for Project Regulation 2571. To return. I'm asking you to come back and support me. [[13:15:02]] For 230 Thank you, fellows, for your support. On the basis and as a whole in the drafting of Committee 2571, please vote, please support, 2571. [[13:15:23]] For 256 Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine" is due to take place on 20 May 2015. Head of the committee. Please report to the People's Deputies of Korchinska. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Well, there are suggestions on the committee, how can we. For short. Thank you. [[13:16:06]] For 206
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u85	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, there are two proposals, or immediately to vote in favour of holding such parliamentary hearings from the military-civil doctrine, or I will read you a full protocol. [[B in m in s a l in]] In this case, we ask for the support of parliamentary hearings on the subject of "On Ukrainian Military Medical Doctrine" according to the Supreme Council Rules, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conduct of these hearings on May 20, 2015, registration number 2115 (since 12.02.2015). Do we support or read a protocol decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u86	Thank you so much for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u87	Thank you. So the hall has already been determined on this point. Therefore, I propose to proceed immediately to the vote. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine" on May 20, 2015 (2115). I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Abdullin resembles a green button and please support the bill. Please vote. [[13:17:36]] For 246 Thank you so much for your support. And, dear fellows, look at the working regulations we have. We've got less than an hour to finish our work. There are still a number of regulations and a number of drafts of first reading. Some authors have been waiting for a very long time, and so I very much ask that when there is a very important proposal, when there is a very important amendment to a bill, we enter into a broad discussion. When we do not have such big warnings, let us strive to exhaust our daily routine and not endure questions. It's an offer and a request to the hall. And I'm going to move on to the next question. 2110 is a draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Family Policy - Objectives and Tasks" and I invite the rapporteur Ungurian to the floor. [[Noise Nodes]] I think that this question unites the entire room, and if there are no warnings from the authors, I will immediately put it to the vote. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u88	Very good. So I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Family Policy - Objectives and Objectives", number 2110. Please vote in favour of this decision. Please. [[13:19:12]] For 247 Thank you so much for your understanding and support. We're moving on to the next draft of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Future, number 2219, and, I think, is there a need? This is an agreed question for all the halls. And if there's no objection in the room, I'll put it to a vote. So we are voting for a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on future issues No. 2219. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:20:09]] For 212 Not everyone has grasped the importance of making a decision about the future. Didn't everyone vote? Let's try it again. There is a request to make a statement. Please. To the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone. We'll listen to the arguments and then we'll discuss it with Lilia Greenevich, right? Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration, see Decree 2219 on the Committee for the Future. Why, what is the purpose of this commission? It seems to me that we have no place where we can speak and discuss issues that are of a tactless, non-operable nature. Most of the laws that you and I are currently considering, unfortunately, are such jamming holes in a ship that are in a very difficult, difficult situation. And we have to think about what's going to happen next, what's going to happen in five years, in 10. What will education be like? What will we do in a competitive world? That's why the idea is to create a committee of the future, we can now choose, unfortunately, a commission for the future. The idea that was supported by academic Yukhnowsky, but unfortunately, we haven't succeeded so far, so it's in principle a kind of maturity test. How ready we are not just to think about today, but to think about what's going to happen in 10 to 15 years. Where will Ukraine find itself in the world? How do I see the possible work of this commission? This is primarily a playground for conversation with society. When society, those people who have a vision of seeing development together with Parliament, together form a vision that goes back to society, and that's how we form a social opinion and change how we change parliament, and change society. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I've, you know, started with 50 minutes left. That's 50 minutes, that's not much. Some drafters have been drafting for months. I ask you very much in those 50 minutes not to leave the hall, to stay in the workplace, to concentrate, and to delay your urgent affairs for a period after the session. I ask the deputies who have just left the hall to return to the hall, to return to their jobs, not to embarrass themselves and parliament. Please, let's go back to the hall. Now I'm going to give the floor to Lilia Greenevich for the performance, and then we're going to vote for the return. And I think we'll find support in the hall. Please, Lilia Greenevich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education unanimously supported the draft decree. The creation of such a commission is not Ukrainian know-how. Such committees of the future operate in most European Union parliaments. There are bodies in parliament from the scientific and technological expertise of legislative decisions, because we make situational decisions with you. Yes, we must respond to today’s problems, but we must also predict how this will turn out in the future and in our country’s development strategy. In Sweden, there is a Commission for the Future. In Germany, the Bureau of Technology is in operation. In Israel, the Commission for Future Generations. In Britain, the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology. We're proposing a temporary commission based on a model that works in Finland. She had been active for seven years, and when she justified herself, she became a permanent committee. Let's do this first step. Why? Because it is the creation of such a commission that will allow us to take into account the prospects for the development of society and the economy, so that the laws meet scientific projections and technological trends. So the commission will do, first of all, what it will do is analyze the direction of scientific and technological development and predict the perspectives of the various programs and projects that are being developed in the state. Dear colleagues, we are. Those who know how to see the future know how to control the present. So I very much ask you not to lose this opportunity and now vote in favour of this commission, and then it has to justify its work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. I want to confirm that similar committees exist in most European Parliaments. It's the development of a strategy, it's the development of long-range plans for our work. I think we need to give the commission a chance to work, and we will already evaluate its results here in Parliament. So I'm putting to the vote a return to the vote on the draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future of 22,219, and I'm asking my fellow deputies to support it. Vote for return to vote, please. [[13:26:03]] For 228 We've taken a big step into the future -- the return. Now let's make another vote for the ruling as a whole. We've got a chance again. Therefore, there is a request to vote in favour of the draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the future of 22,219. I'd like a colleague of the deputies to support you. Please vote. [[13:26:44]] For 228 Thank you. Thank you for your support. We took advantage of our chance and our future in good hands. Let's move on to the next one. All right, whoever didn't vote won't fall into the future. The next bill is the draft Act amending article 50 of the Land Administration Act on simplifying the production of land-use projects (1280). There is a request from the authors that we consider the reduced procedure. Please support the vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[13:27:34]] For-183 Thank you for your support! And the report invites the Ukrainian national deputy, Neciporenko Valentin Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Poor Valentine's Day, Rebirth Group. The bill is very simple, it's technical, and you know, I'd call it a closed-circuit bill. What sometimes happens to us is that a person has a separate land plot, a person on this land plot built a building, then goes to form, or land, a government act, or a house. In order to obtain a state act on the ground, they call it "show the documents to the house" and it goes to architecture, and they call it "show the state act to the ground," and the land is only isolated. Therefore, it is suggested that this closed circuit and documents be placed on the house only if they are made. What do we see here? First of all, the Real Estate Tax Act, the budget doesn't get due to the fact that people can't put the building into operation. They can't get government acts on them. I know I've been talking to my colleagues about the fact that this law doesn't take everything into account, because there is a situation in the villages and there is a situation in the district centers, because there are the first, second and third categories. Therefore, I believe that this law should be adopted only on a basis, further, so that the national MPs can apply this Law so that those who have taken possession of the land or who have illegal construction and who are already merely bringing it to second reading can not benefit them. But you have to take it because you have to move. Human beings have not been fully formed, people have houses that have not been constructed, they have, they have, and there is a circle that cannot be broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u94	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Kutovy Taras Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the author's very detailed description is not really a difficult problem, but what I'm trying to say is that in addressing an agrarian committee of citizens, about 15 percent of the references are actually about this problem. And it's very good that the author stressed this problem, it really does exist. And the question of a closed circle that is today in the form of real estate, the land area needs to be broken. At its meeting on December 23, the committee decided to adopt the bill as a basis and, above all, to address the issues that exist in the village today. Today, the author of this rostrum stated that, including his firm conviction, he needed to be supported only in the first reading in order to work on his second reading. In fact, we don't think that there's going to be any extra points that can be added on the second reading, and in the context of amending the bill itself, I think there's little that can be rectified. So, once again, the decision is based and in general, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u96	Thank you very much. We're going to define in the voting process whether as a basis or as a basis and as a whole. Please tell me, Your Honor, is there a need to discuss this bill? No, I don't. There's a need, isn't there? Then, if you'll excuse me, dear colleagues who insist and have important rights, I'll give you my word. But, please, briefly and by means of a replication. Please, it's a microphone curve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u97	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear friends! The People's Front faction will only support this bill on the first reading. And I would like to go back to what the author had already said, why? And the editing and the changes that are proposed to the author. It can refer only to ordinary buildings, small houses, villages, rural areas, and district centers — the first, the second, the category of complexity. The third, fourth, and fifth categories of complexity are in no way entitled to allow for the decision of the session without the existing building and the corresponding documents, to receive the corresponding sequence of documents. Why? We see that it is now a complex situation in Kiev with illegal constructions. Don't let God don't make any adjustments to these second readings we'll do everything we can and it's not possible for illegal multi-story buildings that are now not just in Kiev, but across Ukraine just one session decision to be legalized, we can't let that happen. So I would like to point out once again that the People's Front faction will vote in the first reading, submit its proposals and observations to it before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u98	Thank you so much for explaining. So we have a situation where both the bill's author and one faction are asked to accept only as a basis. And so, let's go, I don't think that's going to change the situation in the room right now, so I'm going to propose that we vote on the basis and that if there's any objection, we can go over the bill. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act to simplify the procedure for the production of land-use projects by 1280, the first reading on the ground. Please support me, please vote. [[13:34:02]] For 190 Thank you. Of course, once again, once again I ask you to concentrate, stay ten minutes, suffer ten minutes, honorary colleagues, friends before the end of our work. I very much ask the deputies, who have left the hall on more important matters, to return to the hall and take up their jobs. Please, who else is in the towers? The Secretariat, please report to the Chamber. And as long as the MPs are meeting, please, corner for. From the rostrum, to the replica, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I see the situation on the vote. In fact, the law is not complicated. I'll repeat what we're talking about. And here I fully support the remarks made by our colleague from the People's Front, which, in fact, I'm sure on the second reading, we need to address the issues he said we should address. But the bill is really important. Today, there is a conflict: a man wants to form a land under his own house in a village, and he cannot form it because there are no documents suitable for the earth. He's turning around to put the papers on the ground, they say, put the papers on the house. So this is a very important question. It may be small, but for every inhabitant of the village today, for many of them this has become a major problem. I ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading, because it solves 90 percent of the problems of some small peasants in the village today. He's not carrying any extra budget costs, so I'm asking him to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Nasalik, one minute. The author is finished. Then Yvchenko, then the author at the end, one minute. Well, if they demand it, it'll be a radical faction. But now I have given the word of Nasalik. Please. Please turn on Deputy Nasalika's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u101	Dear friends! Why are we constantly involved in local self - government by the Supreme Council? No small problems, no big problems on the ground? We get involved all the time. In the previous plenary, we've passed on the functions of local self-government to Archbudcontrol, and we're giving them the full opportunity to regulate illegal construction now. But giving opportunities to legalize illegal construction now is not a right for anyone, especially the Supreme Council. These are fully local self - government functions. Thank you. Please don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. And from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support the committee, to support the committee head, this is a very important bill. Today, 80 percent of the houses in the villages, in the mountainous areas, are undeclared. The land is not formed in 50 percent. They make the decisions of the session and cannot reach the end. Why? Because there is a need to start with one piece of legislation, to complete the project with a land structure, to form a land area, and by another piece of legislation, it is necessary to establish the real estate directly. One is tied to another. And that's why people just can't physically do it. This bill divides the direct formation of the property and the land area. Thus, we will allow people to form their own land and property directly under this bill. Please support in the first reading. And indeed, there are suggestions from our colleagues: perhaps a third, a fourth, or a fifth category.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u104	Please finish the dates. Have you, in principle, finished? Well, say 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u105	Please support in the first reading, and then we will work out all the third, fourth and fifth categories between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Chizmar. You're out of town, aren't you? Then turn on the microphone. Radical Party, Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, this bill has been in Parliament for three months now. And for three months, we're talking about how it allows us to legalize illegal construction in cities and villages, including multi-story buildings, including industries, including the legalization of self-absorbing and growing areas. Sadly, though, in three months the bill was not amended. So I have a very serious doubt about the content of this law, although we all understand very well that in the country, especially the gardens that were in Soviet times and did not form new acts, they have this problem. But I think the law should be rejected. And let them bring it into the first reading, as it is stipulated. Well, there's no doubt about who it's going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Taras Kutov. It's also a line to explain. And then the drafter of the bill to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, regarding the observation of the National MP, my colleague from the Nasalik faction. It's not about the real estate, it's just about the land. And I'm going to clearly read the stress from the Comparative Table to the law. This is what we're talking about. Today, it is said that for the land to be formed, there is a need for real estate documents to be placed in the land area. The amendment actually, this bill says, "If ownership of such objects is registered," it's not about real estate at all. That is, if you have registered ownership rights to a house, you form a land plot, but if there are no such rights, then if you live there for 40 years as a whole family, from generation to generation in a village on this land area, you form this land without ownership of the house, because it cannot be registered accordingly without ownership of the land. And that's exactly what one sentence says. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. I think with all due respect to a fellow member of the Radical Party, language is actually an exception, but I'll do it again. More than 10 percent, almost 15, we've analyzed the references of people in rural areas that
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u110	Thank you. There will be a vote in a minute, so I ask the deputies to return to their seats, not to leave the hall. And now the word for the author is Valentine's Day. And then there'll be a short line for Oksana Sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u111	Your Honor, I'm calling your attention. The law does not refer to a legal building, but it refers to a land area. The person who received from the village council, from the session, from the district council received a land plot, then built a house, then could not obtain a government act. This is the first moment. And let him make the building lawful. I agree with 100 percent that this should only apply to the first- and second-category buildings. Keep going. Look, we're saying that the budget is constantly touching. How many such houses in Ukraine are tens and hundreds of thousands, people don't pay real estate taxes, they want to pay, they want to pay. That is to say, time will come and the houses will be allowed to be legalized, but where the people on the land that they have chosen have built a normal house, not where the city of Kiev has built a megapolis. That's why I'm asking you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u112	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u113	That is why I propose, and I agree with everyone: in the first reading, that you continue to make such adjustments that are not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Oksana Prodan, 30 seconds, replica, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill does not interfere in any way with the authority of local self-government. Still, the right to form local self - government bodies. We're just clarifying the procedure so that the licensee can take the documents and form them without counterfeiting, without any extra steps. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have had a very detailed discussion, we have been able to hear all the arguments, and I think we have every reason to go back to voting on this bill. And for that, I'll ask the deputies to come into the hall, take their jobs, and now I'm proposing to the author, and I'm putting the committee to a vote the question of returning to the vote on the draft Law amending article 50 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act, 1280. Please support the return to the 1280 vote. Please vote. [[13:43:34]] For 221 Not all of them made it. I'll do it again. On the way back, I can bet a few times. I'm going to take full advantage of my right, and I want to stress to the authors of the law, to the committees and to your factions whether or not your law will pass. So discipline your factions, please. And I'm once again asking the question of getting back to voting for draft law, number 1280. Please vote in favour. "For," please. [[13:44:18]] For 232 Thank you for your support. Now I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm stressing it as a basis. All of us who are being corrected will be able to make a difference between the first and the second readings. Well, these are suggestions we can take into account, Mr. Oleg, during consideration. So I'm putting the draft Law amending article 50 No. 1280 on the first reading as a basis. Please support the first reading as a basis. Please vote. [[13:44:59]] For 231 Thank you very much. Here we go to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection, No. 1193, and I ask to vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Please put to the vote the matter in short motion. Vote. [[13:45:32]] For-167 Thank you very much. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Bublik Jurija Vasilovich. Please go to the microphone. And I remind you, I'm on my right as chairman and I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes. And I am very much asking that we be able to reach the agenda at the time left. And I ask you to remain in voting places for our work. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u117	Yuri Bublik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 145 constituency. Respectable Society, Honorable Fellows! The drafters of the bill were drafted by the U.S. Union of Freedom, a bill. It is proposed to amend articles 3 and 40 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Ukrainian Legislation on Health Care in order to define the concept of medical secrecy and define basic legal principles for the maintenance of medical secrecy. Under the rule of law, further attention is given to the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the most important person in society. The main tasks of the State include the protection of human life and health. Article 32 of the Constitution guarantees everyone the protection of personal life. The collection, storage, use, and dissemination of confidential information about a person without his consent are not permitted, except in cases defined by law. This constitutional norm reflected the position of international instruments, such as article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, article 8 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. One type of professional secret that ensures the privacy of a person’s personal life is the medical secret. The legal regulation of medical secrecy in Ukraine provides for 285, 286 of the Civil Code and articles 39, 40 of the Ukrainian Health Law. But the norm of article 286 of the Ukrainian Civil Code contains only a definition of the right to a secret about health without defining the concept of “medical secret”. Article 40 of Ukraine's Health Law Framework, which is called "The Doctor's Mystery", also contains no clear definition of this concept. According to the article mentioned above, medical personnel and others who have become aware of their professional or professional responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u118	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u119	Ten seconds, I can't make it. 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u120	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u121	According to the article, medical personnel and others who have become aware of sickness, medical examinations, reviews and results, the intimate and family life of a citizen, do not have the right to make such information known. The protection of medical secrecy in Ukraine is characterized by a lack of clear legislative regulations, namely regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u122	Well, let's get this over with. 10 seconds is for completion, not for continuation of the speech. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill, because it clearly defines the term "doctor's secret, so that the term doesn't get abused.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u124	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Health Committee, Bogholic Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, head of the Health Committee, Olga Bogholtz. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee has upheld the Medical Secrets Act. But we agreed with the authors of this bill that in carrying out an anti-terrorist operation, search for bodies, bringing volunteers wounded to the hospital, it's best to postpone this law at this point. So I ask this position, agreed with the drafters, to support you. Yes, this law is necessary, the medical secret is to be kept. But together with the drafters of the bill, we ask the Head of the Supreme Council, the chairman and you, the MPs, to support the transposition of this bill, because it has a double treatise upon completion of the anti-terrorist operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u126	Thank you very much. As I understand it, the position is in agreement with the drafters of the bill, and I therefore postpone to the Chairman's right the consideration of the bill for a later period, which, again, will be agreed upon by the committee and the authors of the bill. And the final draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of national protection (1386) is today. And there's a request from the authors that we look at it in a simplified procedure. Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure, please support. Please include the vote. [[13:50:47]] For 112 I understand that not everyone was able to vote. So I'm going to ask the people's deputies once again to return to the workplace, including the heads of factions, to discipline themselves, and once again there is a request to vote in favour of this short-term issue. Please support. Vote, please. Turn on the vote. [[13:51:23]] For-136 Dear colleagues, well, we are about to enter into an endless consideration of this issue. I think we should start it, there should be a report. Then we'll be able to determine by voting. Dear colleagues, I'll bet you again. I very much ask the National Deputies to take up their jobs. I'm asking you so much, guys. Deputy Nasalik, Deputy Nasalik, I ask you to return to your posts and vote. If we do not now vote in favour of the shortened procedure, under the Rules I will begin to consider this issue in full procedure, and therefore I am very much asking for a responsible vote to come forward. And once again, I would like to put to the vote the question of the consideration of draft Law 1386 on a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:52:32]] For-160. Thank you so much! Please welcome to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u127	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Today, I'm sure that each of you have faced this problem when citizens turn, especially people who don't have legal education, often old people who have bought a certain thing in credit, in banking institutions, and then, when they don't pay the loan in time, there's an unlimited percentage. For example, I have a friend in the district who turned, first he took a loan of 6,000, and now he's got 64,000, which is actually banks and other financial institutions are robbing people today, and they're forced to pay unlimited pennies. And there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, that the double rate of the NBA in the Law on Liability for the Indemnity of Disposing of Financial Liabilities applies only to enterprises, institutions, and organizations, rather than to ordinary citizens today, I say again that there is an unlimited amount of foam. So I propose to adopt the Law to amend the responsibility for defaulting on financial obligations and to extend the Law to individuals. What I'm saying is that it was a very surprised position for a profile committee to say that this is really a problem and a serious one, and it needs to be solved, but somehow, at the request of some banks, they want to return the law to the author's work. And I also disagree with the position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says that the Consumer Rights Act needs to be amended. But it does not apply in any way to consumers of financial services. So I'd like to ask everyone who came out, to go back to the hall and support this law, because it applies to ordinary citizens that we'll give them the opportunity not to take away their apartments and other things in a fraudulent way. Thank you very much and ask everyone to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u128	Thank you very much, and I invite you to the report of the Head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. He's not here, and that's why he's going to report the Fisherman. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting on 20 January 2015, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the legislative acts on strengthening the protection of citizens (registration number 1386). The bill is aimed at strengthening control over the activities of banks and financial institutions as part of the limitation on the size of financial sanctions, for violating the terms of credit agreements by borrowers. It is also suggested that changes be made to the order of the creditor’s replacement of the liability. The bill aims to strengthen the rights of borrowers of natural persons. At present, the issue of protecting consumers of financial services, particularly the settlement of payments of imbalances, the limitation of their size by double, the accounting rate of the NBA, the establishment of responsibility for violations of these regulations, and so on, is very relevant. Thus, the problems addressed by the bill require legal settlement. But it must be resolved comprehensively by reforming the consumer credit system and protecting the rights of consumers of financial services. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the bill is intended to be rejected. The National Bank of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes to reject the bill. Taking into account what has been said, the Supreme Council Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act to amend certain legislative acts to strengthen the protection of citizens (registration No. 1386,) introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy, Anton Yacenko, to return to the subject of the legal legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u130	Thank you so much for the report. We also have the conclusion of the Chief Executive to call off the bill, and we have the conclusion of the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative, but nevertheless, under the Rules, I will be the first to put the proposal to vote on the bill on the basis. But before I do, I want to ask you in the halls if there's a need and a need for discussion, and I see that only Kaplin is asking for a replica, and there's not two of them from the faction, so let's identify someone else. Let Kaplin have one minute to reply, Yatzenko as the author will have another final minute and Lewchenko, one minute, sorry, Head. And after that, we're going to vote. Please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u131	I'm very sorry that maybe my speech is going to be a little off-topic, but not off-limits, allowing me to speak. Now, under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are about a thousand miners, professional organizations. They had a meeting yesterday at which Ukrainian national deputies were, likewise, present. We cannot ignore the presence of our fellow citizens at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you know that today there were some not-so-good precedents associated with their breakthrough to the Presidential Administration, they met with the leadership of the President's Administration and today at the Supreme Council. I have a request, let's form a group of their representatives and let the leadership of the Supreme Council, maybe the faction leaders, meet and listen to the miners. It will be dignified, proper and we will hear their demands, and please turn on the broadcast so that they will hear that we have paid attention to their presence here. These are professional organizations that we should hear necessarily and always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u132	Thank you so much for the information. I want to let you know that I was told that the miner was already on his way to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And so now there's nothing left to turn on the broadcast for a few minutes. But I would like to appeal to Deputy Kaplin, especially to a committee of profile, because their questions are of a narrow profile, now that we're done going to people, talking to them, there's nothing more important and better than a dialogue with society every day. I'm asking you, actually, to this dialogue and even if there's nothing stopping you and others from hearing their questions and giving assurances that we can hear them and we're going to solve the questions they're putting in front of the government. Thank you. And now the Head, and then the author. Head, please, from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u133	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear MPs, colleagues! The bill, which is to protect our citizens, especially against the pressures of the banking system, is very important. Because today we are faced with a situation where hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are suffering from vacchanalism over such irresponsible banking policies. Many blame the money they took, you have to return, but no one asked, did not make a condition, why and under what conditions they were then given. What's more, we see these frauds where the banks knew in advance that the customer wasn't going to pay back the money, and we gave these loans, realizing that the money wasn't going to be returned. But they benefited from it and were interested in it. And so we have to put a double responsibility: not only does the borrower have to think about how to pay the money back, but banks have to think about who they give to, what conditions, and not change those conditions, drive people into a cabal and a hopeless situation. That's why any law of support for citizens needs to be approved. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u134	Heroic glory! And the final performance, Yatzenka. Turn on the microphone on the stand. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u135	Dear friends! I still want to remind everyone in this room, regardless of the political belief that we were all chosen by people, not by banks. Once again, people, not banks. So I'm asking everyone to uphold this law. How much? You know, I felt when I told the committee what a banking lobby is, and what they say is no use convincing anyone. I'm sorry. So now it's going to be a test, as we have the political powers of our people under this law. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-22-m0.u136	Thank you very much. So after a detailed discussion, I can put to the vote and put to the vote a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the state protection of citizens, 1386, on the ground. Please determine by vote. Please turn on the voting system. Vote. [[14:01:44]] For-78 Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. I don't think Abdullin's voice, who didn't make it, is going to be decisive in the vote. And that's why I'm putting to the vote -- the last, the society -- the next proposal6 to get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative to work. So I am voting on the proposal: to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of national protection (No. 1386). Please determine how to vote. Please. [[2:02:36]] For-98 Thank you very much. The legislative initiative did not receive the required number of votes. So we've exhausted our agenda. And, dear colleagues, I want to say the important thing: we have had a difficult start to work today, but for me there is a very important moment, as probably for all of you, at the most difficult and critical moments, we can gather together, discuss -- and make positive decisions on the most difficult aspects of our activity. I think there's also a great power of our coalition that when there are moments of misunderstandings, we have enough power and, most importantly, enough responsibility to gather and work systematically, to work actively. I believe and believe that we will avoid further misunderstandings. I'm sure we're not going to have any changes, not just in the structure, but in the management of our coalition. And I'm sure today we've given a good signal for our next job. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is adjourned. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we gather in the hall and continue our difficult but important work for the state. Thank you. Good-bye.
