ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the hall, take up jobs for the beginning of our important, though difficult, work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're going to register now, we're going to open a session of the Supreme Council, and then I'm going to announce a break at the request of two factions by 11:00. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:14:21]] 308 national deputies are registered in the hall. I declare an open meeting of the Supreme Council in the morning, open. And at the request of two factions, the Radical Party and the Fatherland, I announce a recess until 11 p.m., great colleagues. I'd ask everyone at 11 o'clock to be. At 11 o'clock, I'd like you to meet the people's deputies in the hall. Thank you, Your Honor. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u3	The meeting was held at a meeting. Please take your seats with respect to the National People’s Deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs can continue our work. Please ask the National Deputies to enter the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we continue our meeting. I would now like to invite the coalition coordinator, Andrija Anatolyevich Teteruka, to the floor. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to the coalition factions, the performance will be handed over to Oleg Laszko. From the factions of the coalition, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. At our initiative, we thank our coalition colleagues who agreed to a break, and we discussed a number of questions during the break. In particular, with regard to the working order of the day, which is now proposed for consideration by Parliament. The last thing today is the government bill 2273, which refers to the ability of the state to manage its property, its property, and specifically the Skrnafts, we think that this is how the oligarchy forces are trying in the new Ukrainian Parliament, which is elected in democratic elections, to continue to govern the Ukrainian Parliament, as they have done for 23 years in a row. The Radical Party faction, which has taken a break, we insist and we have the support of all factions of the coalition, immediately, now in this room to vote on Law 2273 – to regain the right of the state to influence its property, to control its property. We believe that oligarchs do not have the right to be parasites on state resources, on top, on state property. That's why we insist on the adoption of Law 2273, which, by the way, allows for the return to government property not only of Skroft, but also of much stolen property. In particular, recently one of the oligarchs of Igor Kolomoyski made a sensational statement that he was giving $5 million a month to Kuchmi and Pinchuku bribes to allow him to privatize certain state-owned enterprises. We believe that this statement must be the subject of an investigation by the Attorney General's Office. According to this claim, a criminal case must be committed. And all those who gave bribes and all those who took bribes have to answer, and the length of time in these crimes to the state is not before Ukrainian society. Therefore, the Radical Party's faction insists on the proclamation of Law 2273, which will allow for the return of all the property stolen by the oligarchs not only by Cologne, but also by all the other oligarchs that are in our country: Ljowochkin, Firtash, Surkis, Pinchuk, Ahmutov, Komojsky, Grigorishin and all the other oligarchs. All oligarchs are evil, no less than external Russian aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is in order on an extra day basis and will be considered immediately after the meeting of a committee of professionals that is to be considered under legislation. Now, I would like to invite, honourable colleagues, to the floor: a national MP, a member of the Solovay Committee. Please hold a meeting on this subject. Please. It's a professional committee that has to consider this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u6	The distinguished Ukrainian people, the honourable fellow MPs, are forced to address you in a disgraceful situation that has arisen around the fact that the Supreme Council's committee on economic policy is already five times in a row, and more specifically, some of its committee members are deliberately ignoring committee meetings. Instead, six members of the Supreme Council, including Ptašnik, this is Kocheljeva, this is Solovay, Romanowski, this is Matkowski and Krivenko, who are constantly taking part in committee meetings. And me, actually. And that's why I think this is a disgrace to Ukrainian parliamentaryism. There's 10 registered in the hall this morning. 11 members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to give an immediate commission to hold a meeting of the Committee in the towers of the Supreme Council, bearing in mind that there is a quorum available today in the Supreme Council Hall that is sufficient to hold a meeting of this committee. Besides, I want to ask the faction leaders to also participate in this committee's meeting. I would like to point out that today, apart from the six deputies that I have read, there are also MPs in the hall who are also attending the Berezkin, Voropeyev, Matvienkov, Fairmar, I think this is more than enough. And Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. This is more than enough to hold a proper meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, and to put an end to this impeccable issue of concern to Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. Right now, I want to assign the Supreme Council apparatus right here under the dome on the third floor to secure a committee room. That's right, the stenographer and everything. And now I'm tasking the committee to assemble immediately. I ask the factions to take part in this committee so that they do not violate the law. Without breaking the law, we have considered this issue today. Thank you, Your Honor. One. Voropeyev, please, National MP. You've been called. Please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u9	National deputy of Matvienkov. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, you know, when the committees were dividing, when most of us defined the situation in the leadership, we were multiplied by 0, the opposition, we didn't participate, we didn't argue, we didn't follow the portfolios. We have worked honestly, in good faith, we have had our positions under each law, we have visited all the meetings of the committees, and no one can dissuade us from doing so. But today, when we see that there is an ostentatious or substantiatic struggle for the chair of the committee under this law, and although they want to solve this issue with our hands, we do not want to take part in it, please excuse me. You will find out who will lead this committee, who will hold the meetings, how these meetings will take place. With regard to the law itself, we have a principled position under this law, we do not, in principle, oppose it, vote for it in the first reading, if you take any amendments into account, vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please take your seats as appropriate. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. And I would like to inform you that, according to the statement made by the head of the committee, Ivanchuk, that he has been withdrawn from the post of Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the relevant regulatory committee held its committee meeting and made an appropriate decision that does not require inclusion in the agenda of the session. And I'm going to put this question to the vote as a human question, so that there's no questions about committee leadership. If it does not make a decision now, the acting Head of the Committee, Ivanchuk, will be given an immediate commission to hold a meeting of this committee, immediately. He's in the hall, and he's gonna do it, as far as I can tell. Therefore, please, Your Honor, a draft Order calling Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich of the post of Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy is being submitted to your consideration. So what I'm stressing is, if this is going to happen, then it's going to be the first deputy head of the committee. If the appeal does not take place, Andrew Volodymyrovich must carry out his professional duties and meet with the committee. And we're ready to make this decision in the Supreme Council Hall and we're going to vote. Is it accepted? Dear colleagues, I beg you all to calm down, please! Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you all to prepare for the vote, for your consideration is a draft decree, registration number. Dear colleagues, the draft decree is being submitted to your vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the draft Order calling Ivanchuk from the post of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, 2418, is being submitted to your consideration. Please be sure about the vote. 2418. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:12]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I give you the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council to immediately assemble the committee and hold its meetings. [[Applause]] Please, this bed, Andrew Volodymyrovich, this bed, it's for you, please. If you have to do a stenographer, you can do that. I'm asking the faction leaders to ensure the participation of the committee members in the meeting, and we're continuing our consideration of issues of order of the day, honourable colleagues. Before that, I would like to perform an honorary mission and welcome to our colleagues, the Ukrainian National Deputies with a birthday: Andrija Valeriovich Žurzija, welcome Stepan Ivanovich Kubiv, Ruslan Valeriovich Lukyanchuk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first reading introduces a draft Act (registration number 2377), a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on military reserve service during a special period. Please, Your Honor, there is an offer by the representative of the President, the Ukrainian national deputy to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:29:20]] For 203 Decision taken. Please, Stepan Ivanovich, report, please. Colleagues, I would like to ask you very carefully to listen to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act on military reserve service during a special period, submitted by the President of Ukraine as a matter of urgency. The thesis first, which was designed to regulate the service in the military reserve, takes into account a special period. The second is that the bill is based on the need to improve the system of national security, to improve quality and thus improve the capacity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The third is that the project is predicted that the reserve is all those who serve in the military reserve of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, and are designed for their deployment in peace and wartime. Thesis fourth, which necessarily includes serving in the military operating reserve of the first line of military personnel released from military service, military service, at the time of the call for a special period of mobilization. Fifthly, after a special period, such military personnel will have the right to make voluntary contracts for the service in the military reserve. And the adoption of this law will create a legal basis for fulfilling what is today. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u13	Thank you. The head of the profile committee, Sergey Pashinsky, will report. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergei Pashinsky, please report. Sergey Pashinsky, please report!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u14	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Distinguished Viewers! Yesterday, I'm very grateful, we quickly passed the law as a basis and as a whole, which addresses all those problems of social, socio-economic, political, psychological, demobilization that are now in full swing. Tens of thousands of people are now demobilizing. But at the same time, we would like to point out that the Russian aggressor, unfortunately, has not disappeared from our land. We have to be ready for any scenario development. At this point, the first wave of mobilization is over, the parts are complete, and the battle is going on. Demobilized, in fact tens of thousands, is proposed by this law to be transferred to the so - called First Serge reserve. What does that mean? All these people in the vast majority have combat experience, they have the parts where they served. And it is predicted that in the case of force majeure under the President's decision, the Parliament's decision will be called upon to mobilize, not according to the pattern that was before, but through the military, because of the military arrangement, but directly in its parts. This is the so-called reserve of the first queue. I will pray and hope that this will not happen. But we have to be ready. And I ask you to vote Parliament and the committee's decision to vote as a basis and as a whole as a committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u15	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please sign two for, two against. Please, People's Republic Deputy Masorin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u17	Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I wanted to urge you to support this bill, which is very important today. The People's Front faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Ribak, Peter Dusty Block. Please, Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u20	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Well, it's a really important law, because 35,000 military personnel who are now going to be demobilized want to know if they're needed by the state further. And I think it's the norm on their right to voluntarily enter into service contracts in the military reserve that is determined by this law. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. Paul Kishkar, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u22	Self-help is critical to the position of this law. The only thing that's very interesting is that Mr. Mehed is going to offer us a system for dealing with demobilized people, especially a person, and what does he do next, where does he go, what documents he gets? Or will we simplify the process of getting a participant in combat? For example, I am still not a fighter. I have proof, Mr. Mehed, that I am a part of the fighting. He's very interested in systemic changes in human behavior. Because it's all left to ransom, I think, volunteer organizations and we have good examples where volunteers are setting up centres for the accumulation of information on vacant positions, financial assistance work, assistance in getting legal assistance in the process of obtaining a participant in combat. Let's work systematically. We're ready to join all these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, National MP Moseschuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u24	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška fully supports the bill. It urges a colleague to vote for it as a whole. For 23 years, the army was destroyed, and the country’s defence system was destroyed. And now that the blood of the best sons of Ukraine is shed in the East, our task as parliamentarians is to restore the country's security system, Ukraine's protection system, and, above all, it has, in fact, based on a reserve, on a professional reserve, on those who have already been engaged in combat. But here again I draw the attention of the deputy minister present in the hall to the ATO commission. Some scumbags, some prosecutors who've never been in this zone, get it. Militia generals who went to the south get it. At the same time, the real fighters of the real parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces cannot reach and gain that status. In addition, I am addressing the Deputy Secretary of Defense. Now there's a military officer in the room, a national deputy, Sergey Melnichuk, who's suspected by the Attorney General's Office of committing two murders and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They call on the Secretary of Defense to disenfranchise the military name of the young man who came here in uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u25	Please, colleagues, National MP Novak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u26	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable Deputies, the unconditional faction of Peter Dustenk's Block supports this law. The only thing to say today is that we need to provide material security for those who are now mobilized and those who will be mobilized to protect our Fatherland. Today, the salary of three thousand dollars is less than the minimum wage, considering that the boys are serving around the clock. If there's a man on the front, there's twice as many, that's six thousand. A person who protects his Father may not receive such a minimum wage. So today we need to set up a real wage for those who protect the Fatherland and consider their material provisions. If the State treats those who protect their Fatherland honestly, so will those who protect the Fatherland. We support, but we need to provide social protection for those who are at war and those who are serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think enough has been said, has been said about this bill, the bill. I would ask respectable colleagues to behave with restraint in their dealings with one another, with respect for the national MPs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. The bill (registration number 2377) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (on military reserve service during a special period) has been submitted to your vote. There's a committee proposal supported by factions, we've heard it in speeches, we've supported this bill on the basis and in general. This is the proposal that I put to the vote: 2377 – on the basis and in general. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Andrew, we have a vote. [[11:41:05]] For 273 Decision taken. Peter Poshenko's Block – 122, National Front – 70, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 18, Radical Party – 18, Fatherhood – 11, Rebirth – 7, Will of the People – 9, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the draft Amendment Act. Draft Law to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the simplification of business conditions) (Registration No. 2381). There's an offer by the rapporteur, heads of the committee, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please note that the bill is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:42:12]] For 207 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. Please report to First Deputy Justice Minister Natalia Ilarionovna Sevostyanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill amending the Tax Code to simplify business conditions. The bill is designed to reduce the number of procedures and the time of registration of fiscal operators. This will improve Ukraine's position in the Doing Bisness rating already in 2016. Today we're taking 76 positions. Once you take these changes, it's going to be 12 places in the rating. The project proposes to introduce the principle of silent agreement in the field of taxation in part of the report on the collection by the supervisory authorities of tax payers of the bill, which is proposed in real time, is a change to 69 articles of the Ukrainian Tax Code. These changes propose to establish that banks and other financial institutions will be able to open and close current and other accounts to taxpayers on the basis of information published on the Ministry of Justice's website with the monitoring body's report at the same time as the opening and closing of the account. The supervisory authority shall, after receiving an account opening from a bank or financial institution, take account of the account in real time or hope to send a refusal to account by the controlling authority. The introduction of this principle of silent agreement will simplify the way accounts are taken into account by the supervisory authorities, which will improve business conditions for entrepreneurs. The Supreme Council Committee decided to recommend the adoption of the law as a basis. Please support it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Please report. The head of the committee of profile, Roman Nasirov, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, allow me to narrowly challenge the position of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the Government Draft Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the Simplification of Business Conditions) (Registration No. 2381). I would like to point out at this time that this bill, with the general motivation of the legislative regulation, is linked to the Government's bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on certain legal aspects of improving Ukraine's position in the Doing Business (registration No. 2382). But let's not forget that we're not doing it for ratings, we're doing it to make it easier for businesses in our country. In general, these bills are designed to reduce the number of procedures and the time of registration of operators, including in the fiscal sphere, which will improve Ukraine’s position in ratings and in reality to open and close accounts and communicate with the fiscal service. Directly by draft Act No. 2381, amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Taxation are proposed to introduce the principle of silent agreement in the field of taxation, in particular in the part of the report on the collection by the supervisory authorities of tax collectors of the bill, which is proposed for real-time payment. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, this bill can be based on further comments and suggestions. Because I'm going to point out that this is a government bill, but at a committee meeting, the Ministry of Finance and Fiscal Services were against it. That's why I'm asking you to work on it in the Cabinet of Ministers. On the basis of this, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u31	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u32	Presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, accepted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two for, two for against, please sign up. National Deputy Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Deputy Kirsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u35	The People's Front supports this law, because this law, first of all, is anti-corruption; secondly, entrepreneurial; thirdly, it is very money, because if it is simplified to register business in Ukraine, there will be more taxes in our country, there will be no objections. And I don't understand why Minfine is against such a law. We will support and vote on both the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Podlisecki, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u37	I ask you to pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u38	Aunt Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u39	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Self-Help faction will support this law, because it really proposes the introduction of the principle of silent consent in part of the confirmation by the tax authority, i.e. the fact that a tax payer is found or closed in real-time banks. However, if financial institutions are able to open and close these current accounts on the basis of information published on, inter alia, the official website of the central authority responsible for the state registration of legal persons. So, of course, we're going to support this law in this part. As far as registration is concerned. Amendments to Article 183 concerning the registration of VAT payers are proposed from three working days to one working day. And I think in this part we need to reconcile the position between Minfin, the DFS and the working group of national MPs. Is there such a technical possibility in the DFS for one working day to confirm the registration by a payer of VAT? And also, Your Honor, colleagues, Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to point out that unfortunately, there was no meeting of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, there was no meeting of the Committee of Economic Policy, which you just commissioned to assemble. It's proposed to gather deputies for the 14th hour, on the street of Žitomirska, that once again the plenary day of the session will not be possible. So I ask you, once again, to put together the deputies, the members of this committee now, and to hold this meeting immediately. As far as the bill is concerned, the Self-Help faction proposes to support it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u40	Thank you. I ask the head of the Economic Policy Committee. Why don't you invite him over? Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u41	The Opposition Block faction will certainly support this bill, because it refers to simplifying the way in which taxpayers are accounted for. This will mean a simplified order of registration of taxpayers, a more rapid management of current accounts for farm operations, of course it reduces the level of corruption that is possible at the stage of registration of taxpayers and puts them in charge of controlling bodies. I want to point out that the Opposition Block faction will support any legislative initiative aimed at simplifying business, aimed at deregulation and reducing corruption in the relationship between control authorities, government authorities and taxpayers. We call on representatives of all factions, non-fractional deputies to support this legislative initiative on the basis. But I would like to point out, for my part, that there is a need for specific proposals to be made in this bill during the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the Radical Party is Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues. The Radical Party faction supports this bill. We have to make all the conditions today to improve the arrival of monetary revenue into the country in order to improve the removal of regulatory pressure from business, all the unnecessary checks, all the unnecessary bureaucracy. Statement principle: the law of the direct norm. But at the same time, we insist that such steps are not enough. We need a change in economic policy, we need to focus on economic growth, job creation, massive incentives to export from the state, imports of substitutions, preferences for local producers, for those who create jobs in Ukraine, for those who pay taxes in Ukraine. And we're going to propose and support these kinds of bills. Because our goal is not just to take small steps that make things a little bit better. That's not enough today. There is a need for radical economic reforms to bet on a national producer because only national production can provide a tax base. Because in order for taxes to exist, there has to be jobs, and products have to be exported abroad. And we're going to support that in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u44	Please, Alexander Kugel, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u45	Dear friends! I would very much like to say that this is an epoch bill, one and the other, which is outside the government on deregulation of business simplification. Unfortunately, I apologize for the comparison, these are microclysms that business doesn't feel, and the government writes that this is a terrible cost savings that, I don't know, who is going to save. We would like to ask first of all for a bill that we supported on the Oxana Sales Committee, which envisions a complete guillotine. And it says, "We give you a year. Please confirm the need for regulation, the need for licensing. If not, the law stops in a year." And then the officials will run, guide and work with the MPs, with the government. Not in a way that we filmed here, but in another order, the minister introduced it. I want to say that this law should be adopted only in the first reading, for there are novices that make things worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u46	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u47	which makes things worse for an entrepreneur who is not a VAT payer and therefore only in the first reading, and in a calm mode of processing to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. I think, well, everyone made a statement. Yeah? Oksana Sold, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill, which we are currently considering with you, is not huge and very large and complex, but it is the final point in simplifying the registration of business subjects. You and I have already voted on the rules that simplify registration in the registration room, which simplify business and make it unnecessary to go to the Pension Fund, to Statistics. At the same time, it takes almost a week to register with the bank and get a bill. This project simplifies the very discovery of calculations. So we will vote for him in the first reading. The only thing I want to support is the previous speaker, and I ask Vladimir Borisovich to submit Bill 1069 to the next plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u50	Thank you. Make sure you have 1069, please record his consideration after the committee’s consideration, for the next plenary week, to support the enterprise. Dear colleagues, everyone has spoken about this bill. I understood the position of all factions that he needed and was willing to vote on the basis. So please invite the deputies to the hall. And the Law is brought to your attention. draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Simplification of Business Conditions, which has just been reported by the reporter and co-reporter, registration number 2381. Dear colleague, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. People's deputies, please vote on draft Law 2381. Based on the base. Please vote on the basis. [[11:57:02]] For-300 Decision taken. The draft law was adopted as a basis. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, according to the Rules, I hereby announce a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Please hold committee meetings, as well as coalition factions on the agenda. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u51	Please come into the hall to continue our work. Explain the reason for the blockage, please. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the rostrum is blocked, we cannot continue our work now. But I'm sure in a few minutes we'll find a political solution so that we can continue our work. Thank you. Let's stay at work. I'm sure in a short period of time we'll find a political solution and continue our work. Don't go away, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m0.u52	Dear fellow national MPs. We just held a coalition faction council. The decision is as follows: by the 16th hour (I will now close the meeting), an Economic Policy Committee meeting will be held at the committee. Great Zitomirsk, 11. After that, at 4:00 p.m., we're starting our meeting tonight to consider this particular bill. If that is not the case, the committee, then we will develop a separate order for the consideration of the matter. But I am convinced that I am convinced that the committee's decision should be, as the committee manager has assured us, and we will vote from 16 hours. So I would ask everyone as much as possible to meet us for 16 hours in the hall, as much as possible, my fellow national MPs. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Please adjust to work. We still have a number of laws that we have to vote on, except what was stipulated. Thank you, fellow national MPs.
