ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Everyone, please come into the hall. We're starting our plenary session. The daily routine is full enough: the issue of social protection, the issue of the family of ATO soldiers. I'd like everyone to focus on constructive work, because we have a pretty tight schedule this week. Today, as I said, social issues are planned, properly addressed on the Conciliation Council. On Thursday we have a package of visa-free legislation. Also, the issue of renting gas, which is extremely important. And today we're going to consider, apart from social issues, other issues that concern information, information policy. And this is also extremely important. These are laws that make media activity transparent. So I would ask everyone to adapt to constructive work. Get ready to register and start our work. I would like to remind you, fellow members of the National People's Party, this Tuesday. In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, we have 30 minutes for statements and statements from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, Your Honor, please register, please include the "Council" system for the registration of members of the People's House. Thank you. [[10:03:03:03]] 300 national deputies are in the hall. I hereby declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council open. As appropriate, please prepare for registration by factions and parliamentary groups. Please register from the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The third week in Kiev is in the government district, where thousands of people from all over Ukraine every day and every night choose to lower the cost of housing and utilities. Three weeks ago, together with colleagues from other factions, we appealed to the Head of the Supreme Council to hold an extraordinary Parliamentary meeting to make a number of decisions that would be able to reduce the cost of all services. Unfortunately, we were not heard. The Ukrainian Parliament did not work for three weeks. Today, people receive large amounts of money that they want to enjoy. But I advise citizens not to do that. Let those who have counted these payments hang themselves. And they will certainly be responsible. That's why we insist, the Radical Party faction insists that today, I stress, today, not Thursday, not next week, the Ukrainian Parliament make decisions that will make it possible to radically reduce the cost of housing services. In particular, the cancellation of the rent on gas, the decision that only the gas of Ukrainian production should go to the needs of housing and utilities. The elimination of Naftogazu, this corrupt office that washes tens of billions of dollars, which then pays consumers from their own pockets. Establishing an independent president and government of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market, which will not set dragon tariffs as now, but objective ones. We also demand the adoption of the Anticipation of Tariffs Act, for today no one knows what ceiling these tariffs are from and how they are counted. I have a simple question for the President, for the government, for the parliamentary majority. When a person gets a pension of 1,300 dollars, and he gets a gas payment of 2.5 thousand dollars, where he can get money to pay for that gas, where he can get the pensioners, the budget, the unemployed youth -- where they can get the money to pay for basic utilities, not counting what more food is needed, medicine, etc.? That's why we require Parliament to make decisions, and otherwise I call on colleagues from democratic factions to block Parliament's work and not to make any decisions other than those that will allow the cost of housing services to be reduced. And the second. The political repression in Ukraine, launched today by President Prashenko, imprisoned his political opponents to build a dictatorship in Ukraine. The imprisonment of Hennady Corban, Igor Mosiyczuk, the Freemans, the Right Sector, the Volunteers -- all of this powder mode is trying to get rid of the Patriots. Today, the region of Dustenka is closer to allies than the patriots. We demand the resignation of the Attorney General and the Head of the Security Service, who carry out the political orders of the Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u3	Please, Bondar Victor Vasilovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u4	Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, almost two years from now, the new authority will be there in a few months, but we see that virtually nothing changes. First. Elections have passed, 8 days of voting. People won the election, lots of parties won the election, but power, the ruling party, won the vote. In seven days all the records were counted ten times, and the numbers were recalculated, day and night. And in summary, we have the results that the whole country has already announced, which party has won, only the whole country doesn't know with what results, and it's waiting for official results. The other one. Dear colleagues in the hall! Dearly Honourable Coalition! The election's over. Let's stop the fighting. Look what you've done over the past year and a half. Look at the relationship you've had with the government, with the President. This is the way to nowhere, this is the way to the chasm. We need to stop. Understand that this is all that's happened over the past year and a half is not what people expected. Look at the tariffs, look at the work of the law enforcement system, every day the "mask show" in enterprises, in industries and so on. Look at the political repression, look at the state of the economy, the decline in industry, the fall in exports. We need you to stop right now. Sit down, work out a strategy that you'll be doing for the next six months at least. Give an answer to the budget for next year. Give an answer to what will be an investment policy. What you'll do to change the climate in the country. What you're going to do to support industry to support exports on oriented industries. How new jobs will be created. At last, hear about the tariffs you've made. Have the courage to finish considering hundreds of questions a week that have nothing to do with real life on the street. Give a clear plan of action at least by the end of the year: what you will do; what will be the budget; what will be the key bills that will really reform at least two or three a year; how will this be strengthened by money for the next year; what will be the monetary policy in the country; how will social policy change; what social and other guarantees will be given to people who are barely surviving today. Unfortunately, there is no answer. This is the way to the break-up, this is the way you run the country right into the default, into bankruptcy. And unfortunately, we're all going to have to save you, the government and the whole country together in three months. Because you're going to lead the country to just lose its independence because of your irresponsible position and yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u5	Please, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u6	Congratulations, fellow countrymen, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainians! Today the order of the day of our session has a more social orientation, it's very important. The race for local councils has ended, and national deputies are eager to return to the hall and start working, and they have voted in favour of important decisions for the common people, and they have confirmed everything they have promised in these local elections. Because I remind you that promises have to be fulfilled. I want to emphasize that the People's Front faction supports the decision of the government that grants that have been awarded in a non-flammable period are automatically converted into an inflammable period, without further applications, declarations and any documents. The government has also changed the system of socializing the gas consumed. Now it's not 200 cubic meters per month, it's a thousand cubic meters for the whole heating period, and you decide when to pay. This will allow citizens, at last, to save on gas in warmer months and to use it at the cheapest price in months when it gets cold. We need to learn how to save gas, and that will rob us of the energy dependency of the aggressor country. I want to remind skeptics right now, cheap tariffs are an energy dependency on Russia, an aggressor country. And I'll remind you that after all the decisions that the government has made, we're finally going to get 70 percent of the gas from our Western partner countries. All those who want to burn their pools and three-story houses at the most expensive rate should forget about it and pay a fair price of 7 thousand 188 dollars, and the most vulnerable sections of the population, the socially vulnerable will receive a grant from the government. And by the way, I remind you, 3.8 million families in Ukraine have already developed subsidies and received them. What I'm saying is that we have two plenary weeks ahead of us, and we need to adopt a number of very important bills. The first is to complete the adoption of legislation on the introduction of a visa-free regime with the European Union. Our citizens must move freely in the countries of the European Union because we must become members of the European Union at last. Another important reform to be launched is the reform of the judiciary, and in Ukraine it is necessary to fully update the judiciary. Next, it's a question of the Henprosecutor's Office. Finally, we need to make a decision and deprive this body of the task of investigating, create an independent State Bureau of Investigation. Let's adopt the Law on the Establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation, we pick a head, we pass on the following functions, and it'll put a dot on the discussions, on the repressions that seem to occur in the state. Let us call on the law enforcement authorities to tell us all the facts about the recent cases that have been committed in Ukraine and also about the investigation of the facts regarding the immediate surroundings of Yanukovic. When they are brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Elections have passed, low visibility is an indicator of how people appreciate power. These elections were conducted with violations of current legislation: mass clusters of votes, falsifications, use of administrative resources, blocking, and pressure on the opposition candidate. But even these manipulations proved to be limited. The election summary is still undecided, forgeries are ongoing. The results of the vote do not reflect the real attitude of the citizens. In a number of regions, opposition was not allowed at all. At these locations, the Opposition Block doesn't recognize the results. In particular, in Kharkiv district, where our deputies were not allowed to vote in any district, city, and village council. We demand that elections be secured where they did not take place at all – Mariupoli, Krasnoarmian, Swatov. To that end, our deputies have submitted an appropriate bill, and we demand that we consider it a priority. The issue of the economy remains important, and the precise existence and survival of the real sector. The coalition does nothing to prevent the industrial collapse. We lose jobs every day, we face dragon tariffs, rising inflation and prices. True, there is nothing in the agenda, including our 15 laws that we have passed to stabilize the economic situation. In the meantime, Parliament is involved in lobbying overpowered groups and populism. We have to stop the pear on the tariffs. Only the political will of the coalition, which supported these dragon tariffs, is needed to bring them back to normal. Parliament must return to the question of Donbas. So far, the coalition has done nothing to implement the Minsk Accords. It seems that the authorities have no desire to return our territories to the citizens. This situation resembles Trotsky’s slogan when the Brestic Peace was signed: No war, no peace. And there's no peace or war on Donbas today. It's a frozen conflict and practically a landslide. But there are Minsk agreements that have been backed by the entire international community, including the UN. So we suggest that we proceed immediately with the legislative provision of this process and avoid freezing the conflict in Donbas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u9	Please, Oleg Barresuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable deputies! Parliament is a government body that must be able to analyse what is happening as a result of its activities. Elections were made to the local authorities. Obviously, they were the same, if not more, dirty as before, with the same forgeries and administrative resources, if not bigger. Why did this happen? Because these new elections were run by an old CEC system led by Mr. Ohendowski, who also served the system in earlier times. So today we have to solve this issue -- and change the CLTC in order to take on a different, new responsibility. The next thing is a lack of government. What is now happening in the state as a tyrannosaur fight is that the state is weak and the clans are fooling around. This means that there is a weak Attorney General's Office and courts that don't control the situation. And these are all smoke checkers that close the smoke most importantly -- the development of the economy that will enable people to survive in that situation. To this day, there is neither tax reform nor budget in Parliament. What's more, we have information that the government is once again going to solve its holes at the expense of education, especially secondary education, it's unacceptable, it's the only area that gives people intelligence today to survive. And the second area where they're going to take advantage of the security is agriculture, take into the peasants what the state has ever given them, it's a crime in front of the peasants, because they pay for the most expensive gas, because they're not being helped by the state and they're taking away what they're earning themselves. It's a crime against the state, it's not a budgetary procedure. Therefore, smoke checkers must be taken away, a budget must be brought to Parliament and Parliament must assume responsibility for the development of this state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u11	Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, apparently at the heart of our attention, all political forces remain elected to the local councils that have recently taken place in Ukraine. And it is clear that the same is true that our political power marks the imperfections of today's Elections Act, which needs to be changed and done not before the next election, but now that we have carefully analyzed all the benefits and disadvantages of today's electoral legislation. One of the benefits of this legislation, by the way, was the so-called gender quota, which unfortunately was not respected, which also has to be taken into account in the same improvement and the next Act on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But today's election is over and it's time for all of us to unite around our national united country of ideas, this is our Euro-integration choice. And really this week, Parliament faces a key challenge -- voting for laws that will allow us to have a visa-free regime and that will be Parliament's full responsibility. Dear colleagues, let's be self-critical. When you and I fairly complain to the government about the imperfections of the bills they passed, let's be honest about how we worked with you these three weeks on the committees, because half the committees didn't have quorums, and they weren't meeting. And so the responsibility for any breakdown of this vote will lie with all branches of power, so we have to support, consider and vote. What's very important, dear colleagues, is to take into account how much unity we need today and to protect Ukraine outside. Indeed, for two months we have a relative mode of keeping fire in the east of Ukraine. I'm happy to tell you that last week, we and the Ukrainian Security Service released 10 Ukrainian hostages. And I really hope that we'll have good news this week, too. We're working on it. But how important it is for us to unite and in larger things is to show to the whole world that, in fact, the Minsk Accords today do not take the other side, that they are being violated, and that sanctions are being preserved against the Russian Federation. And here we need unity. And I think that in our rhetoric, you know, when we talk about political repression, we have to remember the real repressions that we see today in the Crimea, where our Crimean Tatar brothers are being destroyed today, and the Crimea should be in every single speech we make. I want to say from our faction: Bebraber biz -- we're together, Crimean Tatars. And we need to keep that in mind. And to finish our speech with the words of our genius, the Metropolitan of Sheptic, "Not a stream of loud and noisy phrases, but love Ukraine with quiet and continuous work." Let us love Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u13	Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko, People's Will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Ukrainian people! 46.6 percent -- that was the voter turnout in the local elections. This is one of the lowest indicators in modern - day Ukraine. People are disappointed and do not see political alternatives. Parliament as no one else is responsible for this state of affairs, because Ukraine has a parliamentary-presidential form of government. The time has come for us to make fundamental decisions on matters that really concern the electorate. First and foremost, how to survive in today’s conditions for a meager pension and salary. In 2015, inflation is estimated to be 55 percent. And in total, in the 14th-15th year, that's 90 percent. Elemental economic estimates show that the index proposed by the government was in the pocket of every Ukrainian because it no longer paid at least 630 dollars for every thousand dollars of income. Moreover, in many areas of the country, pensioners never received an index pension in October. We have a statement from the voters of Kiev, Kiev, Mikolaiivsk, Hersonsk, Zaporozhi. The same is true of paying salaries to teachers and doctors. There is a lack of budgetary resources in the form of regional subsidies for these increases, and so many budget workers have not experienced any increase. Hospitals are now empty because patients prefer to get sick at home, because there is no money for any kind of medicine in medical institutions. Parliament is not responding. Let me give you an example. The MP's "will of the people" group suggested directing local budgets to cover emergency medical expenses, but Bill 2495, which we have registered in the spring even though they put the daily budget into order, does not go to the vote. In the order of the day this week, we see once again that only 10 percent of all drafts of the agenda are covered by the socialist. No less important question for people is tariffs. The cost of utilities increased by 220 percent in a year and the average family’s income by 3 percent, with inflation eating them up. It's not tariff reform, it's tariff genocide. Because reform should be accompanied by a reduction in the cost of energy supply for the final consumer, transparent tariff formation, and consumer accounting. So now the Council's first decision is to have laws on rent for gas production, radical reform of Naftogazu, increasing social gas consumption for the population. Dear colleagues, it's time to end with empty laws and populist promises, elections have passed, we stop ignoring, really, important social issues and levels. And the level of support for everyone without excluding the parties shows that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u15	Dear fellow national MPs! Time for, time for, please, Julia Timoshenko. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! The second week began after the election to the local authorities. The second week is not the summation of the election. The second week across the country is followed by extensive copying of protocols, forgings, money, conspiracies. I want to ask you, who is responsible for this? Names specifically. Why is it still the case of Ohendowski, who heads the Central Election Commission and who today is the key to all these forgerys, why is it not considered in Parliament?Oh, my God! There's no such thing as an initiative. Why do these leaders of the territorial electoral commissions and members of the territorial electoral commissions who are now falsifying the elections of Ukraine compromise the Ukrainian state, humiliate the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian people, why is neither the prosecutor's office nor the Ministry of Internal Affairs doing anything today?Oh, my God! In Poland two hours after the election, the winners were welcomed to Parliament. We've got a fake next week. Dirtyness, dishonesty, political corruption, and as a result of the humiliation of the nation. Stop it! Secondly, you know that today's heating period has begun. And today people in rural homes simply don't turn on the heat or turn on half the power, or they throw away equipment and burn wood in the first place. Who is responsible for this? Yesterday we had a coalition meeting, faction leaders along with the President, the Prime Minister, and the Head of the Supreme Council. We tried to explain that there is a real breakdown about all the directions of social and state life. We tried to explain that according to a survey of very authoritative institutions, between 68 and 72 percent of the people think that power is moving the nation in the wrong direction. In support of the European Union and NATO, they believe that the economic social agenda is wrongly chosen. That means that we wanted to talk and make a way yesterday, but we heard from the Prime Minister that everything was good, and that after the subsidies, the tariffs for people would be lower than they paid until they rose. That everything is fine in the country, everything is going along the way. I'm going to Parliament now. Only here can we have a responsible team among all the factions who will take responsibility for bringing about the system of things in the state. The government couldn't handle it. Unfortunately, the state has failed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u17	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u18	Only our union, only our joint work, only taking responsibility by Parliament, can change the situation. Our faction states that until tariff laws are passed, the extended moratorium on land sales, the cancellation of 10 per cent of customs duties, and the cancellation of pension taxes, we do not vote in favour of any laws other than social ones. And I ask everyone to maintain that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. You have introduced a project on responsibility for violating statutory guarantees for military personnel (registration number 2035a), prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Drozdik. I invite you to report to the National MP, Mr. Alexander Valeriovich Drozdik. Please report to the Honorable People's Deputy. The author of the bill proposes that the draft law be examined in a simplified manner. I'd like to say, colleagues, that the draft law is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. Please have a summary of the law. [[10:31:10]] For a-117. The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u20	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to bill 2035a on strengthening the guarantees, the social guarantees of the rights of military personnel that are now subject to mobilization. In fact, this law proposes to strengthen, further strengthen, the responsibility of employers for violating the guarantees established by law that we have adopted in the last session, the bills already in place, which set out the social rights guarantee data, including the preservation of employment, the preservation of wages. This law proposes to establish, strengthen the responsibility of employers for breaching the safeguards. And in fact, this law will now allow for the negative consequences that are already there, and we see, and we have been approached by military officials, that their rights are already being violated so that they don't happen again. The law proposes to amend article 265 of the Labour Code and articles 41, 221 and 255 of the Code on Administrative Offences. These changes are proposed to establish the financial responsibility of employers, with a minimum wage of 10 per employee for whom the infringement is committed. The Administrative Code on Administrative Responsibility also imposes responsibility on officials ranging from 50 to 100 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. The bill is also supported by the Ministry of Professional Affairs and is supported by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And so I ask all the deputies to support it, to vote as a basis and as a whole, because there are no comments to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u21	Please, is there a question for the reporter? You don't? Vote? Dear colleagues, there are questions before. None. There's a question. Please sign in for three minutes. Please, question the reporter. The People’s Deputy of Anointed Ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u22	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. In general, as a representative of the People's Front, the National MP, we support this legislative initiative of our colleague Drozdik Alexandr Valeriyovich. The only thing I want to ask you is, what is the position on this project of the Ministry of Profiles, whether it supports it and what is its position at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u23	At the committee meeting and the department of profile, our committee generally supported the bill to be voted on. No comments were actually there, those remarks that were before the bill at the beginning, they were all cleaned up and actually worked out, this bill no longer has any comments from the science and expertise department.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Oksana Sold, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u25	Dear Alexandre Valeriyovich, the initiative outlined in the bill, is logical because responsibility must always be imposed for violating a certain norm. At the same time today, you propose to introduce the responsibility of employers for not being compensated by the government today, the wages that employers pay to their mobilized workers. In 2014, the government never paid compensation to all employers who paid for it during 2014. Today, the government does not pay compensation for the third part of the year and a half for which Parliament has continued to mobilize. So what I want to ask you is, how does the responsibility of employers relate to the responsibility of a government that does not comply with the law on compensation for salaries paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u26	I'd like to point out that this bill. This bill does not depend on whether compensation is compensated or not, and this is not the case. Of course, this bill is intended only to provide additional guarantees for military personnel. The facts you're talking about have to be done in a different way than a given bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u27	Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Valeriyovich, I'm also in the context of my colleague Oksana Prodan, we're already thinking about the next fiscal year. It seems that the social protection of those who protect our nation is the job of employers. I think they need to be responsible and administrative, because they don't comply with the laws, and I'm basically in charge of strengthening it. But we have to think about how the state must guarantee the social protection that we have in terms of supporting the army for the next fiscal year. Today is November of the month, we have to think about whether we're ready, and I think we have to raise the contractor's salary by 8 or 10 thousand. I mean, it seems to me that we need to work more actively with the government so that not only the local problem is part of the social guarantees of employers, but rather the systemic problem. The state must provide social security for the army and the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u29	I fully support your offer, your opinion, and we work in this direction all the time with the profile committee. But we're raising these questions under the Ministry of Social Policy, but unfortunately, there's no minister to which we could address them, because that's their responsibility, and they have to inform us and tell us how much they're meeting the requirements of the Law to uphold the guarantees of social servicemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the interviewer's questions are exhausted. Please, if necessary, 2 minutes from factions and groups. Please sign up, two minutes from the factions and groups. Please, Oksana Korchinska, two minutes, please. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I'm sure you're fine with hearing and you're hearing from a fellow national MP. But if you're okay with hearing, but you can't hear it at the same time, you obviously don't want to hear it, I'm so diplomatically speaking. Both I, Timoshenko and Berezuk, were speaking from the Parliamentary rostrum, and we made clear the requirements of what the Ukrainian Parliament should do to make decisions. You listened, and Vashka listens to eat. You've listened to and asked questions that are completely secondary today, which are certainly important, but today are more important questions: tariffs, political persecution, food prices and medicines. These are the questions that the Ukrainian Parliament should consider. You don't do that. Why don't you? Or are you hopelessly far from the people and you don't know the needs of the people, then I suggest you come down from this high parliamentary rostrum, go from here to the walls of Parliament and listen to what people are saying to you. Why don't you go down to the minister's office and listen to what people tell you? Maybe after that you'll come back and you'll look at life in a completely different way and you'll ask the question in a completely different way. Because you feel like you're somewhere in a separate territory where you've already built communism and you're absolutely not interested in how millions of Ukrainian citizens live. So I'll tell you, the honourable coalitions and the Head of the Supreme Council, that you have led people to begging! People are getting married today! Today, peasants go to the forest to collect their food because they have nothing to burn, and they have nothing to eat. The acorns are gathering! This was the last time during the famine. That's what you've led the people to! And you ask secondary questions instead of lowering tariffs and making decisions that will increase the standard of living of citizens. I demand that you immediately change the order of the day and ask the questions that millions of people will be able to survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u32	I was very emotional, very self - critical. Fortunately, not so long in central politics, but five times less than you, and who has led whom to what, I think we should look at the mirror more often. Honorary fellow members of the National MPs, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the agenda is formed at the suggestion of committees of the Ukrainian Parliament. The members of the committees are representatives of all factions and groups, including committee management, and representatives of the political power of the speaker. So please make your suggestions, they will be submitted to the Conciliation Council and will be considered. With regard to tariffs, I would like to stress that on Thursday in the daytime, there is a law that has to do with reducing rents on gas. This will mean an automatic solution to many other questions. So please make specific suggestions, and then, I think that national MPs, not me alone, can make the right decisions. But I want to assure you that this month we have planned discussions including important economic issues, social issues, education, health care, visa-free treatment, questions and others that will allow us to stabilize the financial and economic situation in our country. I have supported and will support such decisions. Please, Igor Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Igor Alexeyev, People's Front. Well, you know, there's a lot of people here that the Parliamentary Coalition should take first care of the social protection of the population. I want to say that this bill is also called upon to provide social guarantees, including employment guarantees for persons such as military personnel who call for military service and pass, in particular, in ATO territory. What is the initiative and what is the urgent need for this bill to be adopted? In this session hall, we adopted a bill in due course that strengthened the employment guarantees of those who participated in the ATO. But on the other hand, we have not established responsibility for employers in the event that such guarantees are violated. And what do we have? At present we see many references from ATO participants that when they return to their homes, unfortunately, such a situation that employers do not provide jobs does not secure their jobs. It is therefore necessary to establish a firm responsibility for employers and this bill is specifically called upon to provide labour guarantees for ATO participants. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Nechayev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u35	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, you know, this bill, and I'm going to examine how much we can feel today in general the problems of the country. Now, look, it would seem like an absolutely positive bill, but let's think about its profound meaning, so we're actually going back to the repressive mechanism. We re-establish administrative responsibility for employers ranging from 50 to 100 non-taxable minimum citizens if they do not comply with the law. Today, however, Mrs. Oksana’s question was quite correct: The government today is not fulfilling its responsibilities. There is article 119 of the Labour Code, which guarantees workers if they perform a national or civil duty, including in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. The Government of Ukraine, led by Prime Minister Arsenia Yatsenuk, is completely failing to comply with the law on compensation for employers of the average monthly wage for those workers who are appointed to military service. You can imagine there's no compensation for the year 2014. In 2015, the exact same situation. To date, the State has imposed on employers, introduced 12 new taxes and congregations. In addition, the government, by failing to comply with the law on compensation from the employers' budget to the average monthly wage, introduces and plans to introduce another – this is the employer's responsibility for administrative offences. Let us still be logical in this matter. Without the government’s law, it is not possible to require employers to enforce the law. I would ask everyone to abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u38	Thank you very much. You know, for all of us who've been going through this month through the regions and who's watching the news somehow, there's no time to put up with the stories that people have told who went to the ATO. Sadly, if Nadia Savchenko and her mother have been collecting evidence for two months that she is a member of the ATO, we understand the difficult situation today with regard to their relationship with the State. But this bill does not in any way facilitate this relationship, because unfortunately we do not have with you, we do not have a culture, a work together, and a combination of those bills that need to be passed as complex. We have two bills in the Supreme Council -- 2317 -- which predicts that if a small entrepreneur or a medium-sized worker is recruited, the state also compensates him for his salary, as it compensates large businesses. Unfortunately, this is a violation of the Constitution in force today. And the second bill, the author of which is me, is 2144, which provides for changes to the Tax Code. If I have 10 people today, no more, entrepreneurs and I. My people are going to the ATO, so I need to make changes, and I can take another person at this time. But this is forbidden by law today. Therefore, I believe that these bills need to be unified and thought, not of fines, but of men. And the "Fatherland" faction confirms that we are not voting on any bill until the issue of lowering tariffs is put to the vote -- three copyright bills, on a moratorium on land, on the removal of the import assembly and on the removal of taxes on pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I want to support those speakers who talk about no shame in the plenary, we all have to plan and work for the plenary. Well, you can't turn the Conciliation Council into a show. I have the impression that the government and the ministry are now conducting a series of, not managers, but polytechnologists, who will think of a better show. Well, if there was a show on the Conciliation Council yesterday with the delivery of messages and everything, how can we work today? I mean, we'd have to agree on how this week we're building the issues that society is looking to us. If we are today putting on a social policy day, before it needs to be put in place, we need to meet with the government and take a look at the key social issues that society is interested in. Well, I'm back from Chernobyl. I'm informing you that in November the French can leave Navarka because there is no money and there's nothing to burn the apartment where foreigners work, which will be sheltered. And such social problems of underfunding for November and December on a very large scale. So it took the government to work with us, all of us came here, Minfin. Then the question of social policy is, logically, we're considering. What did we ask about how it would destroy employers for not funding the army?Oh, my God! Well, what are we talking about? So here's my proposal. I support a sectoral consideration of issues. But for a sectoral consideration, there must be systematic professional training for the government and the parliament. And then it's not going to be a third-rate social bill, it's going to be important. And second position. Well, it's obvious that if we work so well together and only in a coalition that we get 113 in a short procedure, there's trouble in the coalition. Isn't that obvious? That's why it's an offer. Gather the council of the coalition, rejoice in your free time. And do whatever you can to make sure that there is no show at the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Hirschfeld. Then Rosenblatt and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Girschfeld, 179th District. The previous speakers were absolutely correct in saying that, first of all, the issue should be addressed in an integrated manner. Secondly, one administrative approach to the employer cannot be resolved. But there is one more important moment. Today, the economy is not having a good time. And we all saw that in the local elections that were held. Today, the economy is forced to shift to new markets. The guy called for a year. The enterprise adopts a new product. They put someone in his place. Trust funds should be allocated to the vocational training of persons involved in military operations. In order for them to be able to work fully and find a place of work, not only in this enterprise, but in the future. That is what true social security is all about. That is why I believe that this law must be supplemented. In addition to the responsibility of employers to introduce mandatory rules, trust funds for the training and training of new professions for these people, and to compensate employers for the funds provided by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u43	Please, Borislav Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I'm talking about Law 2035a. You know, given the opportunity to travel around the world and communicate with our colleagues from different governments and parliaments, one thing you understand is that the country's defence is not just its army, it's primarily an army of reservists who have to be trained all the time. And when today, with several, well, examples like the countries of Israel, Switzerland other countries, we see that they can build millions of armies in two, three, up to two or three days. Unfortunately, this did not happen in Ukraine. And that's why today the responsibility of the people who direct their people to the military service, to the passing of the teaching congregations, is a very big responsibility. And above all, what is proposed here is indeed the ability of people to force them to carry out their civic duties. We know a few examples where the people you ask for help there, they answer, it's not our war. There can be no such thing in our country. War is the same for all. And for those who sit in trenches and for those who produce goods. All must be responsible in one way or another. And when it comes to colleagues on a "tariff field" where there's a lot of questions here, I want to say. You've had a lot of opportunities to make the energy-division of our country, to make the energy-efficient revolution. And because we're going to use less gas, we're going to do less tariffs. Sadly, this did not happen. Today, everyone is demanding a reduction in tariffs. But tell me, please, why we don't require that we do all the work today, really, and make subsidies for them to go to our construction industry today, so that we can drown our dwelling. And that's the only reason, I repeat, that we've reduced our tariffs. The question of gas prices has always been a political issue in our country. Let's not rock this boat. Because gas is just some ingredient that determines the minimum price of gas in all parts of the world. Unfortunately, that is not the case in Ukraine. And once again I call on all my colleagues, let's do everything we can to work on being in ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, Your Honor. Registration No. 2053a: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for breaches of statutory guarantees for military personnel. In line with the committee's decision, there is a proposal to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and in general. People's deputies please take their seats. Vote? Please, 2035a, on the basis of and in general, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase liability for violations of statutory guarantees to employees appointed to military service. Please vote, colleagues, as a basis and as a whole. Vote. [[10:56:44]] For 234 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day, we should now consider a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, the payment of one-time financial assistance to volunteers, volunteers who defend independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and members of the families of the dead." But from what I've received a letter on the announcement of a break from two factions: the Radical Party factions signed by Oleg Láška and "The Fatherland" at the signature of Yulia Timoshenko -- I'm announcing a 30-minute recess for consultations on the agenda. Thank you, Your Honor. Faction leaders and groups, please meet for a meeting on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u46	In accordance with the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council, I announce a recess until 12.30 p.m. The meeting will begin at 12 o’clock in 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The faction and group leaders have concluded, and we can continue our work. I want to inform you that once the agenda was discussed, the issue of reducing rent on gas and voting on the law was once again updated. The second position is to confirm the moratorium on land sales. And the visa-free position that we have scheduled for Thursday. We agreed that I would now give the committees the task of expediting this work and literally holding a meeting from two to four hours on all these three blocks of issues. This language goes, once again, rents on gas, and there's a combined law on tariffs. The second position is a visa-free regime and a moratorium on land. I also want to emphasize the gas rent. I propose that when preparing for second reading, the committee should consider the proposal when the law enters into force on November 1st. So by accepting it, let's say, there today, tomorrow or after tomorrow, it will be put into effect as of 1 November. And then the date will not have much meaning, at which date this law is enacted. But he actually has to be ready for the second reading. So please give these three committees that I have announced, from 2 to 4 p.m., and please consider these questions. This is a question of an agricultural committee, tax policy and law enforcement under a visa-free regime, so that we can shape these laws qualitatively, we can distribute to the Ukrainian National Deputies for consultation and for a consolidated vote accordingly. Please, Oleg Lazko, three minutes after the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We asked to announce a recess at the High Council plenary meeting, along with the Fatherland faction, in order to try to change the order of the Parliament's day meeting that is proposed for today. Because the vast majority of the laws that are in the agenda today are important, of course, laws, like everyone who registers in Parliament, but is the most urgent need – it is Parliament's consideration of bills that will make it possible to effectively, substantially reduce the cost of housing services. Unfortunately, the outcome of the meeting does not make me as optimistic as Parliamentary Speaker Vladimir Groissman has stated. Because despite the position of the three factions, the Radical Party, Self-Help, Fatherhood, unfortunately, the parliamentary majority did not support our proposals so that, today, in the Ukrainian Parliament, the laws on the cancellation of the rent on gas, the law on the use of Ukrainian gas for housing and utilities, would allow for a real reduction in the cost of housing services. We also insisted on voting in Parliament today for a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land rather than dragging God to know where, until there are MPs to go and then find them. The factions of the Radical Party have also called upon the parliamentary coalition, today to call on the Ukrainian Parliament to report to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who, to our conviction, are now carrying out the illegal commands of President Prashenko and are persecuting the political opponents of today's government. In particular, the imprisonment of Hennady Korban, Igor Mosiyczuk, the Freedoms, the Right Sector, the Volunteers, the Patriots, all of this is the road that President Prashenko is bridged by to build dictatorships in our country. We demand the resignation of Attorney-General Shokin and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and we demand that they come to the Ukrainian Parliament today to answer the questions of the Ukrainian people's deputies. In particular, we have information that the Ukrainian Security Service is conducting illegal surveillance, listening to a number of national MPs, including from the Radical Party, from other factions, including me. These are totally illegal actions that the authorities are doing to find and build a compromise against their political opponents. That is why we demand, we insist that today Parliament consider laws that will make it possible to effectively reduce the cost of housing services, to call today's Parliament of the Attorney-General and the head of the Security Service for a report on political repression by today's authorities against opposition deputies and political leaders. Today, too, the Law on a Moratorium for the sale of agricultural land is adopted. Until Parliament meets our requirements, we will not vote for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that I have given the three committees a mandate to consider these issues. I'm bringing to your attention a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, Paying One-time Money Assistance to Volunteers, Volunteers Protecting Independence, Sovereignty and Regional Integrity of Ukraine, and Members of the Families of the Dead. Welcome to Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov's word. Dear colleagues, the author's proposal is to consider the draft Law in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u50	[[12:44:22]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Therefore, the draft law begins to be considered in full procedure. I'm asking the reporter to start the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, may we ask that we vote again on the expedited procedure? The law is, in fact, very simple, I would like it to be accepted both as a basis, and in general, that all the soldiers who, our soldiers, participated in the ATO and before the adoption of the law, I speak of last year, get the status, and we have addressed this gap in legislation. I have a big request: let's still vote on the short notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, once again, I ask the rapporteur to support his proposal for a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u53	There is no policy in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u54	Please, once again, who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote. [[12:45:28]] For-141 The offer was not supported. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u55	Dear People's Deputies, an important bill, 2556, has been proposed to your attention, whose main objective is to establish social justice for all ATO participants. Today, only volunteers who have become disabled as a result of their participation in ATOs and, in the event of their death, their families have the right to one-time cash assistance, amounting to: for the third group of persons with disabilities, 182 000, for the second group, 243,000, for the first group of persons with disabilities, 304,000, and for the families of the victims, 609,000 bracelets. But such a right does not lie with volunteers who, on an equal footing with the military, have protected and protected Ukraine's territorial integrity. In order to restore justice, the bill amends the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantees their social protection and grants the right to receive one-time cash assistance: the first is for volunteers and other ATO participants who are recognized as disabled by participation in the ATO; the second is for the death of their families. In doing so, the provisions of the bill will also apply to persons who have become disabled, as well as members of the families of the deceased, pending the entry into force of the Act. So we're talking about that this law is going to have a second effect. Today we cannot name the number, the exact number of people who will be entitled to one-time cash assistance, but we would very much like to see such people who die or become disabled in the ATO less. Decision of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: To adopt the law as a basis. Decision of the Committee: To adopt the law as a basis. But as chairman of the committee and co-sponsor of this law, I have a proposal to enact this law as a whole. All the differences that the authors of the bill have today with the General Legal Office, it literally sounds as follows (for the transcript I say), if we adopt the law as a basis and generally: "To commission the Chief Legal Authority, together with the Professional Committee, to introduce technical and legal remedies, namely: in the text of the bill, the words "in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on the social and legal protection of military personnel and their families" and "the fight against terrorism" (the second law) should be replaced by "in accordance with the laws of Ukraine". All the differences between the laws that we are now enacting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u56	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Please hold the recording. Please log in. Rosenblatt, Peter Dusty Block, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u57	I would like to encourage my colleagues to support this bill because it has a great impact today on the lives of those who have laid down their lives and health for our homeland, and so today what Alexander Yuriovich said, in the first reading, I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u58	It's a speech, I understand, not a question. Now Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u59	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, let's work faster. Well, invite your factions, faction colleagues, to appear in the hall, and we started working, and so that we do not impose political demands. Two hours off, we'd vote 10 laws and we'd come to the tariffs and come to all the questions. This law should be maintained as quickly as possible, and political positions should not be addressed particularly by ATO participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u60	Thank you. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u61	Alexander Yuriovich, I support your position that, with such warnings, the laws of such importance should be adopted in the first and in general, and I will urge everyone to vote in the first and in general. And the question I have is, what you didn't think is that maybe it's time for a level hearing, or committee hearing, involving relevant professionals and so on, and exploring everything that we have going on with the funds of volunteers, public organizations, in fact, the state in such a big deal as protecting Ukraine and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because time is passing, but. So society doesn't go through that maybe it's not very efficient to use both the state budget and the costs of people who give up. Perhaps it would be wise to analyze and look at the situation. And the second question. You know the Prime Minister's position that you need a special minister or a deputy prime minister or someone for how you feel about it. Because I think all ministers should be working on this problem, not one special minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u62	Well, feathers, I absolutely support hearings on the entire situation of the use of ATO funds, on all statuses, on what is happening today and on what is happening today, and many ATO fighters are unable to obtain appropriate status, whether they are involved in hostilities or not. And the Committee will have to initiate this year's hearing. With regard to the ATO-related Minister. I think it should coordinate the Deputy Prime Minister with the relevant powers. To expand the Cabinet of Ministers, to expand the ranks of officials, today is not the time. It is simply necessary for the Deputy Prime Minister to have appropriate authority to consult with all ministers who are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u64	The law clearly needs to be maintained, perhaps even in general. But I have, I'd like to draw attention to these two aspects that the committee has also dealt with. This is the question of foreign volunteers who today are fighting for Ukrainian independence and have no guarantees. And those laws that we passed, they say they have to serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, but the law has not yet been passed, and so we left them at all outside of social guarantees. And the second question. Those who were volunteers went to serve in the early days. Similarly, the committee opposed their becoming members of the fighting. And today, this double position of the committee, for example, is disorganizing me. I'd like the committee to pay more attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u65	It is by this law that we regulate the situation of those volunteers who went to war on the first day. But this is only true in the context of those who have been disabled and have died. Let's take the first step and close the question, and then let's move on to those who are active, alive and healthy, thank God, who are now at war on the front. But now let's close the first step.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u66	Thank you. Question-answer time is up. Mr. Reporter, you can sit down. And I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please record and sign up. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, "The will of the people." Please, out of the way. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, of course, I support the law, but it must be worked out. And it would be good to unite with another bill that I was drafting, 2569. The point is that there is no concept of "voluntary" in legislation. So all the brake that comes after these compensations is that officials say there's no such thing as a volunteer. That's why we need to introduce the concept of "voluntary" into legislation, and then, according to this status, payments will continue to be made. So in the first reading and for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u69	I ask you to pass the word to Simeon Semenchenk. Semenschenko's seed, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u70	Semenchenko, please. Please sign up, and then you'll be able to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u71	The Self-Help Unit will support the adoption of this law. I also invite colleagues to start protesting after its adoption, because veterans, especially volunteers, especially those who have gone without any social guarantees to protect Ukraine, let us put them out of political opposition. The law is good. The Self-Help faction will support it, vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Vinnik Ivan Yuriovich, from the rostrum. Yeah? Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I am personally offended by the effectiveness of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Today we have lost two hours of time to demand the smallest factions of Parliament that require a recess to change the order of the day. What were you doing on the Conciliation Council yesterday? Did you not know what the order of the day would be? Why didn't you lock the rostrum, for example, go to another rally? Isn't it time for us to work? Are you saying we're voting on irrelevant laws? Tell me, is this law irrelevant, which we are now voting on? And the following laws, which are in the field of security and defence, are also irrelevant? You know, colleagues, stop manipulating yourself. When you speak of a moratorium on the earth, you know clearly that the moratorium will be automatically extended until the Law on the Market of the Earth is passed. You don't have to talk about it and vote. I still can't figure out how, how does reducing tax burden on gas companies reduce tariffs in our country? Explain, please. These are the companies that have the biggest profits in the state, they're going to pay less taxes, you think that's going to cut tariffs? On what account will we compensate for the benefits that we are discussing and providing today? Today in Parliament, there is also a government that needs to increase the tax amount of gas from 200 to 400 cubes per month! What will make up for it? Explain to me. Let's cut taxes and then we don't know what to do. As far as dictatorship is concerned, political repression is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about Corban, we're talking about the elimination of an organized criminal group. No personnel! No political repression! What might be the political repression when the UKROP rating is less than tens of times the anti-rating that this political force has. Who is the dictator? Explain to me. Do you not agree with me that organized crime should be tackled in the State? Raise your hands, who says you don't have to do this. As for the law that we are currently considering. Undoubtedly, help should be given to the families of the dead ATO members and not just them. Volunteers have died a lot, and there are other doctors who have suffered. Undoubtedly, it must be voted on and moved on in the daytime. Should we not vote in favour of laws in the security and defence sectors? This is certainly the case. Because if we lose a state, no political repression, no insinuation or manipulation from this rostrum of parliament can be spoken of. So let's consolidate, vote what's in order today, and finally move on to the tariffs, which are going to be the same for the day and week and the next, and the one that's going to be after work on the committees. We have three plenary weeks for the next 30 days. It's a very intense graph. Let's work, and pretty demagogous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u75	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will unanimously support this bill, which provides assistance to volunteers and volunteers who protected our country when it was betrayed by militias, prosecutors, informants, judges in the vast majority of them, taking the side of the enemy. We support this bill. But now I would like to answer the questions of colleagues who have spoken here and the accusations. The Ukrainian Parliament did not work for three weeks. Now that you're talking about the urgency of enacting laws, I want to remind you, three weeks ago, a faction of the Radical Party, the Fatherland, the Self-Help took the initiative of the Supreme Council's Head to convene an extraordinary session of Parliament. Unfortunately, the parliamentary coalition did not support our initiative. And we think that three weeks of camping and not working in Parliament, that's, including the unadopted laws on volunteers, on probabilities, social issues, and so on. I mean, when you've been resting for three weeks and then you go out to this parliamentary rostrum and you start telling me how you want to work. It didn't take three weeks to rest, it took all three weeks to work. Now the answers to the question of how to lower tariffs. I think the answer to that question is obvious. The most important thing is to stop corruption. Because high tariffs are the derivative of corruption. It's a derivative of energy corruption when the Russian oligarches of our President's business partners spend billions of dollars on some transformers, something else. And then, for that, the consumers, who had raised their electricity price since September 1st, now raised their gas price, raised their water price. So the derivative of "tariffs" is derived from "corruption." Therefore, the guarantee of tariff cuts is the fight against corruption, the guarantee of tariff reductions is the elimination of tax burden, which today is superfluous, and manufacturers then invest in the cost of their gas. In order to lower tariffs or at least allow people to pay less, we demand that the government raise from 200 to 400 cubes the standard of gas consumed at a tax price. Because the price of even 3,000 600 is very expensive. Because the cost of Ukrainian gas in production is 1 thousand 580 dollars. And people get 3,000, 600, at a tax price, and not at a tax rate of 7,200. I ask: Who earns five times, from the pockets of Ukrainian citizens, by pulling out money?Oh, my God! The oligarchs who sit there because of the corruption schemes at Naftogaza! So we, the Radical Party, propose to eliminate Naftogaz, lower the rent, raise the amount of alcohol consumption to 400 cubes per month, open the tariff structure. And these are the steps that will give a real opportunity to lower the cost of residential services. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u76	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u77	Thank you. On returning to the bill, first of all, I would like to welcome to the Day of the Missile Forces and the artillery of our brothers there, in the East. And to say that the People's Front will definitely support this bill and urge all colleagues to vote in favour as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u78	Thank you. We've got up to 15 minutes for the national MPs, three minutes each. And I'm asking you to do the recording and sign up for the performance. As long as the recording is done. Dear colleagues, we have a procedure for consideration of the reduced procedure. Each time, we put this proposal to the vote. And when she votes, I ask her to support her, then she'll have to consider a reduced procedure, and so I have to follow the rules in force. Please welcome Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u80	I wanted to explain to the previous speaker, the one from Peter Poshenko's Block, that the most dangerous criminal group in the country is one in the Bank, the other in the Cabinet of Ministers. That's where the criminals are. The same prosecutors who put us in jail are still in office. The regionals are re-elected as mayors, sitting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. More and more Atoshniks, rangers, and patriots are sitting in prisons in Mariupola and other CISOs. That's the result of your work. Go outside and just see what people think of you. What you're throwing at the military right now is that you're taking care of them, believe me, this political pianist is no longer needed by anyone. Remember, though, that people will come in. And believe me, I don't envy you. And for you, Mr. Yuri Lucenko, I wanted to ask you one question. Maybe not on the subject, you're a anti-corruption fighter. Right? Please explain to me, again, why does the Ukrainian Security Service have Basil Song, of whom everyone in this room knows, who is he? Who's the anti-corruption fighter? I don't think so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u81	Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u82	Friends, it's clearly the law we're discussing. So, one day, you know, I remember how we used to volunteer on the front, and I'm looking at it all, and somehow I'm kind of weird, you know, there's a whole room of people who have been working so well, it's been quiet here for a year, you know. While the boys on the front, in the trenches get wet, they freeze, they rot and die, and at this point, you know, there's someone else sitting there thinking about supporting these guys or not supporting them, giving them or not giving them. Tilt’s crises, you see, many of them were grumbled around nightclubs while the boys were dying on the windshield, yet they feel that they have the right to think whether or not to give! You boys should be ashamed! One hundred percent, all you can give, is that you owe it to them because you owe it to them on the grave of your life. Glory to Ukraine! And I welcome all my battle brothers to the day of artillery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, the Lensky Alexius, the Radical Party, conveys the word Korchinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u84	Korchinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u85	Glory to Ukraine! This law must no doubt be supported, but we are late. Every hour of our work, called parliamentary work with you, this bill should be adopted 10 months ago when our volunteers and volunteers do daily on the front of the work that should be done and done by the Cabinet of Ministers. We mention our dead volunteers and our mutilated ones. Half a year ago, even more, we passed Law 1688. No one under this law is now legalized, no compensation, our boys volunteers. The Cabinet of Ministers explains to them every time why it's impossible to implement this bill, we adopt bills that don't work and the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't. I'm now addressing the government and the President's administration, enough to sit on their heads in volunteers, the state should be working, not volunteering. Volunteers should help, we mention them here in Parliament, what do we do when we're on the front? What are we doing with volunteers today? We put them in jail, we're chasing them, we're putting them in business. You only mention them when you have to sing in Parliament on another bill. We have to make the state work with you, and the volunteers are the only people who have to help. Glory to Ukraine and Glory to Volunteers!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u86	Thank you. Igor Lapin, People's Front, please from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u87	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, we're either in politics or we're in politics. We have a great bill that was introduced into the walls of Parliament today. I'll tell you as a fighter of the Idar Battalion that our battalion actually existed at the expense of volunteers for 99 percent and 9 tenths. And today, to engage in conspiracies, to talk: by full procedure and so forth, I think it's just a delay in time that will lead to nothing good. A very large portion of our colleagues from that wing will go to lunch, some may go and have dinner, and we will only spend this time with you, for which perhaps this law would have saved not one soul and not one person who exists on the front at the expense of volunteers. So I call everyone, call your colleagues, let them come out of that dining room, let them sit down for their jobs and vote for the bill. And as the committee said, not just in the first reading, but in general. Therefore, I ask that as soon as possible the bill be supported and taken up my other voting responsibilities in this session room. So call on your colleagues and, while others are speaking, let them all go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Barn Oleg, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u89	Praise Jesus Christ! I want to welcome my brothers in arms with the Day of Missiles and Artillery, the brothers of my mortar brigade and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the voluntary battalions. And to others, honourable MPs, honourable colleagues, the people have chosen us to put order in the state, to get our independence, to help our armies protect the country and to support our volunteers. And besides, now that we want to reform, I'm asking you not to scream too much, but just to join in. And if we have a lot of complaints about the prosecutor's office, Your Honor, there is now a reform of the local prosecutor's office, influence and join the appointment of heads of the local prosecutor's office. Because representatives, public organizations have the right to influence these committees. One second. There are ancient contradictions that exist in our society. We want a democratic society, but by the way, we act like we're leading to anarchy. We want the rule of law, but next to that, we want this order to start not with us, but with a neighbor. We want to take the President's authority, but besides, we want him and we demand responsibility for everything. We want to live in European, but, by the way, we're acting, you know, in Soviet times, and we're guided by their colossal methods. We require Europe's sanctions against Russia, but there are screams that don't want to go to those negotiations, deal with European colleagues or with the world's regarding the same sanctions as Russia. So, Your Honor, we've made a lot of progress in our society and in the Supreme Council. And if we are talking about political prisoners, such as Savchenko, I ask you not to compare with them, political prisoners, those who, using patriotic slogans and positions for their useful, ambitious purposes. And I really want us to create a new country together. And I really want our best land and our best state to be high. Ukraine has not turned into a country of constant revolutions and African-type coups. Come on, guys, we're working. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the protagonists!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u90	Thank you. Eutusek Sergei passes the word to Yuri Lechchenk. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear TV setters and radio listeners, dear Ukrainian people! You know, three weeks ago, this Supreme Council didn't work, or maybe it's better to call it "the ultimate betrayal," and then we went back to this room, and again we see the same, the same hypocrisy, the same wickedness, the same outright lie, the same deception. You know, for three weeks there were MPs running, most of them were fooling the people, now they're fooling the people in this session room. They've just been talking about how they call for you to come back from your dining room to adopt laws, and you tell me which factions are more than just sitting in the dining room, and you tell me which factions don't vote for laws, and some of them rest, you tell me. You may not be invited to return from the dining room, and you may exclude your colleagues from the People's Front, from the BPP, from your factions. Dissolve your factions because they don't work because they're running their questions. And this is just one example. And if we look at this law, this law is a quintension of what's going on. Because it's a really positive law, they give a gift to the military, and in fact, what it is -- one hand takes away a wallet from people, another hand gives away one bracelet from that wallet, and they say, "And please thank us for that, you thank us, we gave you that 1 bracelet from your wallet," because the law applies to how to help the disabled, help the families of the dead. So maybe we were working to make sure that the army was properly provided to pay the living soldiers properly, so that social aid would be normal for the families of these living soldiers, yes, not first sending people completely unprepared for a penny, and then giving them one bracelet from that wallet they stole. You're not that kind of law, so let's look at the breakdown of private monopolies that abuse the Ukrainian economy, which is what you're chewing on, and there's nothing for people to live for. You may consider breaking the agreement with the Republic of Cyprus, through which you spend hundreds of millions of dollars a month and then giving people a few copies for burial. We might be considering these laws, maybe it'll be honest, maybe it'll be right? Because when I hear the President talking about the fact that we're not being mobilized, only 60 percent, and you see, that's why we can't win. So maybe we don't have a 60 percent mobilization because the soldiers are getting paid? And you can offer 15,000 a soldier's salary and see how the mobilization is done. So maybe you vote for these laws, not just-just-a-butaphoric. It's all butaphoric, it's all evil, it's all lies. And this Supreme Council needs to be disbanded, because you're only working on your own pocket, and you're not able to work on people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u92	And the last performance, Bereza Borislav, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u93	Borislav Bereza, 213 District of Kiev, Party of Citizens of Decision. Dear community, it's very interesting to ask which one of you has the time to communicate with a friend, to see what is written on your phone, to ask which restaurant is very nice to go to. I see that some of you are not at all interested in voting now, some of you have not come to the hall. But understand, society expects you to act decisively, decisively, and consistently. Actually, we don't have to communicate, we have to vote for this bill now. That's the first one. It's different. Please tell me if there will ever be any laws in this room that will explain the term "voluntary." In fact, once upon a time, the volunteer boys who didn't die and came back from the war, do they get UBD or any guarantees and social benefits? Please tell me why, when volunteers and volunteers went to war, we all clapped them, we all said, "Bravo guys, you're protectors, you're cyborgs." Where are your voices now? Where are the same volunteers in this bill now? My brothers are here. There's Dmitri Jarhoz, who's a volunteer, but he doesn't have an UBD. I have a very close man, my friend Sergey Pritula, who is a volunteer, but he doesn't have an O.D.D., either. Any social security. Dear community, I am addressing you people's deputies, those who have, in general, stayed in the hall now! Give up your votes for this bill and make a new bill. Coalition! Vote for the guarantees and social wealth of volunteers. In general, this term needs to be interpreted. Because we have guys who came back from the war who can't count on anything. They're on their own now. The state guarantees them nothing. We need to get back to that question. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u94	Thank you. So the time for speaking from the deputies is over. We still have a procedure for the final word of the reporter. Mr. Alexander, is there a need in the closing word? Thirdyak!? I ask, is there a need for a closing word? Please, Vinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, I want to clarify the issues of volunteers and volunteers. First. Volunteers. We already have a clear definition of the term "volunter." It was the Tetjana Blackwall bill and the other deputies that we voted on. Volunteers. I want to mention to you Bill 1688, which was. authorship of the Committee on Disabled Persons and Veterans, headed by Mr. Trelyakow. It was there that it made clear who the volunteer was. Volunteers are all those Ukrainian citizens who went to protect Ukraine and were legalized later in official military formations, whether it's the Nachwardia or the Ministry of Defense. It's an extra. Together with Dmitr Jarosh, we made an amendment that promotes the status, the status of families of war veterans to people who have been killed or injured, the first degree disability and were not legalized, according to official military formations. These people can get the right status now. Yes. I agree. The U.S. Department of Ministers' War veterans service has not yet effectively implemented this law. But the Ukrainian Parliament has addressed the issue of providing for all volunteers today, their social protection, military personnel, and their families is widespread. In addition, it is additional and separate, and it is unprecedented for Ukraine. The issue was legalized and clearly stated in the law regarding families of dead volunteers who were not legalized in official military formations. And this is already a valid law. It was voted by the President. It is now only that Parliament can demand that the government that it has appointed do so. Let's focus on that. And you have to do enough speculation, manipulation, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u96	Thank you. We have concluded the discussion procedure. There are suggestions from the committee as a whole. But first I'm going to lay the groundwork, and then, if they support it, this standard. It's a deal, isn't it? So, dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote and go into the hall and take your seats. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Will there be support if we vote immediately as a basis and as a whole? There'll be support, right? Let's get a signal vote and feel the level of our mobilization. Dear colleagues, prepare for the signal vote. So I'm announcing a signal vote on Bill 2556. And please take part in the signal vote. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please. [[13:22:02]] For 264 Thank you. There are voices. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, to pay one-time financial assistance to volunteers, volunteers defending independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and family members of 2556a, on the basis of and in general. With the amendments announced under the transcript by the head of the Committee of Trelyaks. Vote, please. [[13:22:51]] For 269 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u97	The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, the right issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" on the provision of social insurance funds (registration No. 2775). As reported by Ludmila Denisov, head of the profile committee. I would like to emphasize that this is the second reading. The table is comparatively given to you. And let's go after the amendments, fellow national MPs. Please, Your Honor, this is the second reading. 1 amendment, Royal. Don't insist. Two-and-a-half doesn't insist either. 3 Amendments, no insistence. Four, Papiev. Don't insist. 5th National Deputy Lensky. Don't insist. 6th Amendment, Royal. Don't insist. Nemirowski, 7th Amendment. Don't insist. National MP Kozachenko, 8th Amendment. Don't insist. 9th, Demchak. He insists. Please, Demczak, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u98	The substance of the amendment is that the Social Insurance Fund has three organs: trade unions, employers, and representatives of the State. My amendment is that I exclude the possibility that, if these three organs do not form, vote in favour of the government, in two months, the Cabinet of Ministers will appoint an executive director. Then they will be removed from the possibility of making decisions by trade unions and employers. So please place the amendment on confirmation and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u99	Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u100	You know, from my experience, it could be a month or two or three, and now it's almost eight months before a decision can be made for the Social Insurance Fund to work. Not appointed director of the Social Insurance Fund and temporary disability. And now there are two directors in this fund: one is determined by the court's decision, and the other one calls himself the director. So there has to be a guarantee in the state that if the parties have not agreed to do so. Because only in this temporary fund is 12 million insured people, and they need to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u101	Do you not support this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u102	We don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, amendment number nine, author of national MP Demczak. The committee didn't support the amendment, it didn't enter, it didn't count. Be my guest, colleagues. 9th Amendment. This is the 9th amendment. [[13:26:18]] Z-70. I didn't get the required number of votes. 10 Amendments, Papiev. Don't insist. 11th. A boy. Don't insist. 12th. Please, People's Deputy Papiev, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u104	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Reverend Ludmila Leontiyevno! You know that this problem arose in general at the Social Insurance Fund in connection with the adoption of the law on 28 December 2014, when I denied that funds could not be eliminated, in general, because the laws, the Civil Code and the Registration Act, the state registration of legal and natural persons (entrepreneurs) did not provide for legal effect in connection with liquidation. The executive directorates are now relying on functions that conflict with article 106 of the Civil Code, article 33 of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons (entities). And we know that if there's a contradiction between the rules of general laws and the rules of special laws, and the rule of law, they have the rules of special laws, that is, the Civil Code. Dear colleagues, even if you adopt this law, it will again be a non-acting law, because it is in conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, my distinguished colleague Mr. Papiev, you know, I would also support you if this, for example, were a decision in May. And if, for seven months now, the appointed director of the Social Insurance Fund, who has neither a table nor a chair, nothing, nor a salary, is no longer working as of January 1, 2015. Now get them together, re-create this long-term procedure. So I would still suggest that I leave the kind of editorial that the committee supported. The Committee does not support Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u107	Do you insist on voting? Please, 12 amendments, not counted by the committee, by Mikhailo Papiev. Be determined, 12 revisions. [[13:28:51]] For-54 54 votes, no vote for the amendment. 14th Amendment, People's Demczak. Don't insist. 15th, Michael Papiev. He insists. 15th, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, you know, you don't have to be such a foreman, but I guarantee you that this law is the way we vote today, and I had a conversation with the Minister of Justice during the break, where we have clearly and clearly broken it down in all the shelves. I asked him one question, when did they apply for the registration of this fund, to reorganize the other funds that you would use as the main, rules of law, this law or the Civil Code of Ukraine and the law of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs? The Minister of Justice said that we would only use the Civil Code norm and the Special Law on State Registration. So these norms that you're about to vote on, they're only going to create the dualism of laws, and they're not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u109	The honourable national deputies, in the materials that were given to you before this bill was considered, were the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice, which stated that they were included in such a version of the law that would be passed. And given that we did include social dialogue parties in the exodus after all. They're also going to be unions, employers, the government's side in the exodus. I ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u110	Do you insist on voting? Please correct 15 Michael Papiev, not supported by the committee. Identify yourself. [[13:31:09]] For-38 I didn't get the required number of votes -- 38, an amendment. 19 Amendment, Leonid Kozachenko, National MP. Don't insist. 20 amendment, Natalia Royal. Don't insist. And 21, the author of the Royal People's Deputy. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've actually gone through the amendments to this bill and we can now vote in the second reading and in general. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote, dear colleagues. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance to ensure the operation of social insurance funds during the restructuring period. An important, necessary law would ask you to concentrate, Your Honor's colleagues, and I will now put it to a vote with a signal, on the second reading and on the whole. The position of the Ministry, the position of the Ministry, you know. The Ministry supports this bill as it supports the committee. So I would like to support this draft law in a second reading. Colleagues, signal vote. Prepared? Please, in the second reading and in general, 2775. Signal vote, please support 2775, please. Signal vote. [[13:33:02]] For 216 Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I see. I see, fellows of honor. I see. It was a signal vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The Social Insurance Fund. Please, colleagues. It was a signal vote. Please prepare for the vote again, colleagues, 27. Please take your seats. 2775: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" on the provision of social insurance funds during the restructuring period – important issues, colleagues, and foundations work for people with social protection. Please 2775, a second reading and a total vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. The signal please be supported in the second reading as a whole. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:34:34]] For 237 Now, in the second reading and in general, I ask you to vote. In the second reading and in general, please vote. It was a signal. Important Law Please Support [[13:34:54]] For 237 The law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Draft Law, Honorary Colleagues, Registration No. 1865: Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance" (for partial financing of sanatoriums of higher education institutions). Colleagues, the law applies to over 40,000 people. Again, this is in the second reading and in general. Here's the table. Well, there's a row. Let's go through the amendments according to the procedure. 1st Amendment, Royal. Don't you insist? 2 amendment, Royal. Don't insist. 4th Amendment, Royal. Don't insist. 8th Amendment, Royal. Don't insist. Victoria the Birdman, 9th Amendment. Don't insist. 10th, Ludmila Denisov. Counted. 11th National Deputy Natalia Královska. Don't insist. 15th doesn't insist either. 17th, Bird. Don't insist. 20 amendment, People's Chamber of Birds. Please, Ptashnik People's Deputy, 20 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill provides for partial funding, which is proposed only to the sanatoriums of higher education institutions, not to all the sanatoriums. This approach is selective; it does not fully correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. So we took advantage of the advice of the GNEO -- and in my 20th amendment, I suggested adding a new article: 29 with a 1 -- which would point to three important points in principle. First of all, that access to health care in appropriate sanatoriums is open to other subjects of social insurance. This is logical, because the fund – it is filled not only by the employees of higher education institutions, but probably by all working citizens of Ukraine. Secondly, what this partial funding is going to be done on the basis of an open competition. And thirdly, that the level of partial funding of higher education institutions will still depend on the number of places that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u112	Please, 10 seconds, finish up and Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u113	And that the size of the partial funding of the institutions' sanitariums will depend on the number of places that these sanitariums allocate to the needs of the fund. That's what this is about, so I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, you know that when we brought this bill to your attention, there were 57 sanatoriums and prophylaxis at higher education institutions. So there were a lot of students there who were learning and getting these extra insurance payments. Now they're here while we're talking to you while you're at it. supported in the first reading and second reading, there are nine left. So what we're talking about right now is that we're only creating conditions for nine schools. I'm asking you very much, let's now support this in an editorial that I've already agreed to the committee, and then we're going to work on the Social Insurance Fund law, which is going to work, because we've adopted 2775. Now the fund we're talking about isn't there yet. The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Do you insist on putting her to the vote? Are you insisting? Please, Victoria Bird's amendment is not supported by the committee, please identify yourself. [[13:39:10]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, 21st Amendment, National MP Melnichuk. Don't you insist? 22 Amendment, Natalia Royal. Don't insist. 23rd. He doesn't insist either. All right, dear fellows, we've been through all the repairs. There is a proposal to vote in second reading and in general this draft law. Please take your seats, Your Honor, and prepare for a second-reading vote, and in general for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance for the partial financing of sanatoriums of higher education institutions. I remind you that the question concerns at least 40,000 people. Guys, please get ready. Take your seats. Please, there will be a signal vote in the second reading and in general, 1865. Please, colleagues, we're voting, a signal vote, a second reading, and in general. 1865, we vote. Signal, please hold. [[13:40:31]] For 202 Colleagues, 202 votes. Dear colleagues, we have a difficult situation with this law. Please, a minute, a comment by Spiowakovsky, a national MP, from a profile committee, an education.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold this law, because it is we who protect 40,000 of our students, it is the prevention of their diseases. These costs are simply necessary to preserve the sanatorium, which will be able to finance the state budget at the expense of the fund, and everything else will be taken over by higher education institutions. Dear colleagues, support the students, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it again. From the committee, we listened to education, education, and science. Colleagues, let's re-vote Law 1865 on partial financing of sanatoriums of higher education institutions. Please take your seats. Please take your seats, colleagues. Vote, signal vote in second reading and in general. Please vote. Signal! Please vote. [[13:42:26]] For 209 Dear colleagues, 209. The signal vote gave us 209 votes in favour. There's another way to correct it. [[Noise Nodes]] Come on, let's get out of factions in a minute. Please, Lilia Greenevich, one minute. Let's talk about it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we very much ask you to be careful about this bill. Because the sanatoriums of higher education institutions are extremely important for preservation. There aren't that many left. Now this bill, it balances the situation. Universities and higher education institutions try to maintain these profiles by their own means. If we completely take away the possibility of co-financing them, these sanatoriums, which are actually the only place to heal students, will completely disappear. So please return to the vote and vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, "Fatherland", Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Fatherland, Kirilenko. Listen to what the previous speakers said when they stressed the highly resonant social makeup. Dear friends, look at the student contingent today. How many of our children are there, who barely make ends meet. Of course, there is not enough scholarships for all, of course, to pay for a place in a dormitory. How much did it take to eat? Friends! In fact, it is for the leadership of the institutions to support the most disadvantaged, they, as the Chief of the Supreme Council rightly said, are about 40,000. It's once a year, a month to help. It's a little help, I'm sorry, but it's social assistance. Let's keep it up, guys. That's it. Let's say this is a serious humanitarian mission. Let's vote for the hall, regardless of what they say, in our political colors, and support the children of our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Well, the real schedule of votes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tells us that there are two choices for today to come out of this situation. First option. It's to send this bill to read again. Option two. In order for him to vote as a whole as a law, we need to return to the amendment of the Ptachnik People’s Deputy to vote. And then I see that we're going to get a total of 260 votes in the room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u123	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please, National Deputy Hirschfeld, "The Will of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! It must be important to help the students, of course, it's important. Just not the way we want to do it. Sanitaries and prophylaxis in colleges are a non-professional asset. They are financed today and are generally lost. So if we're going to help students, let's get the money that the colleges are going to buy trips for. And there will be no corruption in the content of these sanatoriums, and we will be able to heal the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sisoyenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u126	The self-help faction won't support the bill. Because it provides selective funding. Indeed, it is important that the funds provided for in this bill go primarily to finance the department of physical culture in those colleges that are actively starting to shut down such pulpits. And as far as sanitariums are concerned, however, we have to use the funds from the state budget, not the ones currently proposed by the bill. Therefore, we suggest that this bill be returned for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u127	Thank you, colleagues. People's MP Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Why is the department of physical culture here at all? We're really talking about destitute students who come from villages and what minimum support is going to be. Today, this is happening in a very transparent way, perhaps more transparent in colleges than anything else. Today, these travels are distributed among these students by the professors. And, indeed, in view of the minimal assistance that we should give to these students today. There's no corruption here. Let's help these 40,000 students and dot. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. Friends, there are so many who want to speak. Everyone's got one minute at a time from the factions. Now from the committee of Lilia Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, I want to explain what this money is and what they're going for. They're going to pay off a lot of medical staff, that's all. It's not for travel, it's for medical personnel. What's with the gym department? So notice, you don't have to mix these things up. In fact, this is how we can pay for the work of health workers who are very important to universities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Whether or not the faction has such a position. This is the payment of medical workers, not the financing of the pulpit. Colleagues, let's get ready to vote again. Please, 30 seconds, the national deputy of Gordjeev, and then Grigory Smoky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we are all talking about in the electoral process that we are for young people, that we provide them with conditions for a healthy life and so on. And today, the basic question of restoring the program of healing to young people, students of ours, is that we don't allow them to do that. Who are we after this, my friends? I'm asking you, let's all settle down. There's an amendment, let's take a look at it, but let's take a consolidated step towards our young people. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u133	Thank you very much. GREGORY SMUFFLED, PLEASE A MINUTE, AND LET'S GO TO THE VOTE. Please take your seats, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich, you know this problem, we have a teaching university left at Vinice from nine higher education institutions, which had profiles and sanatoriums. The only one who kept this place safe. Who are the ones in these facilities that are being treated? Usually, children from multi-child families, disabled children, orphans. And there's absolutely no understanding today of the position of self-help colleagues who say we won't support it. It's there that the trade committees are helping to determine who should be in these establishments. Indeed, Greenwich rightly said that these costs go to the medical staff who serve these children. Dear colleagues, please, colleagues from Self-Help, support. It's usually the poorest students who go to higher education today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please take our seats. Once again, I want to urge everyone to vote and support this bill. You've heard arguments from the profile committee, from the national MPs. And so, in the second reading, a signal vote in the second reading and in the whole draft of Law 1865. Please take your seats, please! 1865, signal voting, second reading and in general. You've heard that it's the social protection of young people who really need it. So I think it's entirely appropriate for us to support this issue. Please take your seats. The signal vote of 1865 in the second reading and in general. Please support this bill. Signal. Vote. [[1:51:41]] For 226 Guys, we have 226 votes. Now, pay attention! We need everyone to be very careful about voting in favour of this bill. We're gonna have to make something better, we're gonna make it better. Please, second reading, second reading. Colleagues, there was still a proposal to vote on Victoria Ptashnik, 20. 20 amendments that were rejected by the committee. There was such an offer, we're going to look at it, you're going to decide. The 20th Amendment of Victoria the Bird. One minute, Victoria the Bird. Attention, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I'll give you my amendment, I'll read it. Article 21 marked one, partial financing of higher education institutions' sanatoriums. The Fund makes a partial financing agreement for higher education institutions' sanatoriums on the condition that access to health care in appropriate health-care facilities is open to other social insurance entities. Part of the funding of the sanatoriums of higher education institutions is carried out on the basis of an open competition, which is approved by the fund. The level of partial funding of higher education sanatoriums depends on the number of seats allocated by these sanatoriums to the needs of the fund. This funding is carried out by the Fund within the allocations that are determined annually when the Fund's budget is approved for the following financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. This amendment was not supported by the committee. But I'm going to put her to the vote for confirmation. Prepare, please, colleagues. 20 revisions. Please determine for 20 revisions, Victoria the Bird. Have you taken your seats, colleagues? Dennis' minute, please, from the committee. Stop voting. Dennis's minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much to hear, this amendment might be appropriate, if there were really sanatoriums that gave some travel to the fund, they wouldn't give any travel to the fund. These are the sanatoriums, the medical offices that are in higher education. They're really all the contracts that are made between the fund and the university, and they write out what part of the funding goes to the fund and at the expense of WHO. WHO is not less than 50 percent. This contract makes it clear what this funding is for. And it's not travel, it's, for example, a dentist's office, where our student gets paid for 20 bracelets, not 200 bracelets, like the other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Understand? The question is how to pay for the work of medical workers, not how to get better. So, colleagues, so 20 amendments, and there was an offer, I'm going to put it to the vote now, whether it's supported or not, I'm going to put this law in a second reading and in general. And please support him. Please, colleagues, the 20th Amendment of Victoria the Birddog, not supported by the Committee. Identify yourself, friends, take your seats and identify yourself. 20 amendments, please, Victoria the Bird. [[13:55:58]] For-174 I did not find the required number of votes. Now in the second reading and the entire draft of Law 1865, I ask you to vote. But now we're going to vote the signal vote, there were 226 votes, and it's very important that we don't fail this law. Please, colleagues, 1865 in second reading and in general, a signal vote. Vote. [[13:56:41]] For 224 We have 224 votes. Vote? Colleagues, we have 224 votes. Vote 1865, vote. Vote, fellow believers, in second reading and in general. Vote 1865. Vote. Vote. [[13:57:20]] For 234 The law's been passed. Colleagues, gas rents, we're going to vote with the same persistence, I think. Dear colleagues, according to. The law's been passed. In accordance with the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
