ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please prepare the cards for registration. Please register. Turn on the registration. [[12:09:35]] Registered -282 Congratulations, we have enough deputies for productive and productive work. And so I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to welcome the national deputies on their birthday today. And I would like to welcome Victor Mikolaiovich King to his birthday. [[Applause]] And Roman Mikhailovich Nasirov, we too welcome our birthday. [[Applause]] On Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. And so I ask the factions and groups to sign up. Please record and sign up for the factions. Thank you. Let's get this show started. From the Radical Party faction, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday you and I adopted an extremely important package of drafts. And it's important not only to get a tranche of the IMF, it's important because we're providing a flat pension system for the first time. We eliminate preferences for individual groups of officials and ensure social equality. This is very important. But that is not enough. Because today we're getting a tranche of the IMF, because we're asking a personnel question about the responsibility and removal of the head of the National Bank, it's going to allow a short-term fix to the situation. But we don't need stability for two weeks. We don't need to fix the situation for two months. And we need to expand our economy in a different direction. We need to change the economic and monetary policies of our state. To get us out of the regime we live in, in survival mode. When we import foreign goods into what we owe abroad, and Ukrainians lose jobs at that time. This is unacceptable. We need to include strong support from a national manufacturer, take out unnecessary licenses, remove regulatory barriers, provide cheap credit, and do all that other countries have done. So what I want to stress is that the time that we're going to have is very short that we're going to have stability, and I'm sure because of these actions, because of the removal of Gonnaar's, because we're getting financial assistance from the IMF, we're going to be able to stabilize the situation for a short time. So we have to use this window of opportunity to start a new economic policy, both on the government line and on the National Bank line. I want to stress that the National Bank's policy is not only a problem because banks are being refinanced, which raises big questions. It's not bad because the increase in the National Bank's account rate makes it more attractive to the business. Tell me who at the rate of 20 percent can take credit at the bank under 40 percent who can pay it back. It needs to be changed. The National Bank should serve as a tool for the development of the national economy. When we talk about the independence of the National Bank, it has to be independent of manual management, not about the development of the Ukrainian economy. That's why I lost my loan. We can't change immediately across the banking system, we need to create a state bank for reconstruction and development, as we insist. We need to create a credit-expert agency to support Ukrainian exporters. All the barriers that exist must be eliminated as regards the issue of export licences and so on. We're going to be working on this very systematically. So get financial help, use this time to spend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u3	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u4	a new economic policy, both on the government line and on the National Bank line. To create jobs, to stimulate exports, to attract investments. This is the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u5	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block. Juryntz, you have to warn me who's going to speak. And you're a group of deputies. The group "Living," to say the word, it's from the faction of Peter Dustenk, the group "Living," which is Mrs. Jurinec's word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u6	Your Honor presiding, honourable deputies, distinguished listeners! Today in the Lviv region, representing the Lviv groups, we want to report such information that the issue of miners related to the miners of Lvivščina today is in a critical situation. Why? Because in Sokalščina, the city of Czervonograd, roads are covered with miners who demand to hear them. We're addressing the entire group of People and all the representatives who were asked by the Minister of Fuel and Energy on Friday to resolve the issue with the miners. There are roadblocks in Lviv. So please note that yesterday there was a blockade under the walls of the Supreme Council, today it continues in places. If not heard immediately, and again, the minister says one thing today, and tomorrow he does another. This is not perceived by society and society. There's a crowd out on the street. And in his possible way, he expresses his protest. We, all of the representatives of the People's Group today, are asking the minister to pay attention to the miners and take their request into account. If this is not resolved immediately, we will, in a different way, like the members of the Supreme Council, turn to him and force him to carry out his. Make the right management decisions to address this issue. As funny as it may be today, it's warm in this room and you can sit here. It's raining in the streets, and it's cold, and people have to express their protest in another way. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u7	There's still a minute, yeah, we can give you more. One more minute for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u8	The MPs' group, Ternopilska. So, honourable deputies, we understand that the oligarchs want to divide the coal industry, and the government mines want to bankrupt. We realize that Ahmethov cannot be counted for coal that he took to his thermal power plants in September. But the question is, when they eat and how much longer it takes for them to finally pass on. So, Prime Minister, by Friday, solve the issue of the crisis on the lion's, Volinian mines. If he does not resolve the matter by Friday, we will decide. Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u9	Thank you. I'm joining the request of the People's Party and I'm handing over the word from Culinic's Economic Development Group. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u10	Oleg Kulinic, Economic Development Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday the Supreme Council made a difficult decision on the state budget, a difficult but necessary decision to obtain a loan from the International Monetary Fund. But the loan is not a gift and you won't win the lottery, you'll have to pay it back. There is a logical question: How will Ukraine give it up for what? Today, the only sector of the economy in the country that is holding on in any other way is agriculture. Obviously, it is the agricultural sector that will continue to be the main provider of currency in Ukraine. And it will pay off those loans that are planned for our international partners. But the agricultural sector today is placed in very difficult conditions, in fact, on the brink of survival. The cost of agricultural production has already increased. This has automatically led to an increase in food. And even though MinAPC says that food is enough, and its prices are going to be constant, something people don't feel about it, it costs food every day. All essential material and technical resources are purchased for currency plus import duties for seeds, plant protection products and mineral fertilizers. As an agrarian, I want to tell you that almost all seeds and plant protection products are imports and that's currency. In addition, let us not forget to raise the only tax for agrarians nearly 20 times, to increase the minimum rent for a farmer’s grill, haystack, and pastures 30 times, and to 100 times for land under long - term plantings, a residence tax has been introduced. All of this is a huge burden for the farmer. Agrarians are now preparing for the sower and without the government's support, the industry's growth forecast is clearly inconvenient. What did the government do? We are constantly hearing about plans to abolish the special tax regime for fixed agricultural taxes. There is no credit for the soybean; in today’s conditions, it will kill the branch. Did the Supreme Council do everything in its power to make life easier for the agrarians? All agrarian land laws are placed at the end of the list and there is no turn. Let me give you a good example. Yesterday, the Supreme Council, along with other tax initiatives, would have considered a 2003 bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to compensate VAT on agricultural exports. The drafters represent most of the factions. He was supported by an agrarian committee and tax committee. However, something had been removed from the project. To date, the lack of VAT compensation is the introduction of another point in exports to agrarians. The result will be a reduction in grain exports and a reduction in government budget revenues. The Economic Development Group requires the leadership of the Supreme Council to consider on Thursday all the draft legislation relating to the agrarian sector and the village where the committees are drawn. Like 2003, 1159, 0944 and others, and show your willingness to support the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Deputy Boyko is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u12	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national MPs, the latest events in eastern Ukraine give us some optimism in resolving the military conflict in a peaceful and diplomatic way in line with the signed Minsk Accords. And we see the main task of Parliament today in supporting the legislative level of this process, the introduction of laws that will allow the diplomatic conclusion of the military conflict and the return of the country to peaceful life. So we go back to the proposal to re-establish and create a committee on Donbas, on Donbass' issues that would work on draft laws to approve them in the session room. The urgent problem is the restoration of the infrastructure of cities in the conflict zone, which also need support, including at the legislative level. Yesterday, the economic and financial policies of the government of Ukraine were practically supported at the legislative level in this room. I think that the vote, particularly five times after the reduction of the pension, which has been carried out in violation of all the rules of the Rules, has really shown the state and support of the people in that country. I think brilliantly, in quotes, the government's information that our population receives 25 billion subsidies in terms of rising energy tariffs has not been heard by the major population because they have been modestly silent about the other 25 billion, which will pay the most socially active part of our country. Because the total cost of raising tariffs in our country is 50 billion dollars and the session hall voted for it. Unfortunately, this is a problem for our country. So using this rostrum, I'm addressing the President of Ukraine, taking into account the anti-national nature of the laws adopted yesterday, he proposes to adopt the veto and not allow them to be put into practice, for the benefit of our country to stop these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u13	Thank you. The representative of the "Fatherland" faction Sergey Sobolev is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, for over seven months now, as special forces of the Russian Federation, our pilot, the hero, Nadia Savchenko, has been kidnapped. Today it is 81 days of her hunger, and we all realize that this week will be a turning point. The testimony of German doctors, her lawyers, that, in fact, March 7-8 could become a critical date for the health of the Savechenko Hope, when incurable trials can begin, suggests one thing: Putin's regime, which failed in 7 months even to bring the materials to trial in order to prove any fabricated facts against the Savechenko Hope, uses only one method – the method of destroying it in Moscow prison. That's why our faction thinks that all the efforts that the world community, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian President, has made it possible in these last days, when this heroic woman's fate is resolved, to do everything possible to get her out of Moscow's shadow. The second issue that is most important to our faction is the issue of a whole series of bills that have somehow not been considered for almost six weeks, even though they have passed the relevant committees and submitted for consideration in the session hall. There's only one bill on personal farms for the creation of family farms that allows in fact 4.6 million families who now have and process land in the country to make themselves busy -- to convert from a temporary non-working status to persons who will not only produce and sell it directly, but who will be able to pay social contributions, get pensions, get all the opportunities to be full citizens of this country. In addition, in connection with rising energy prices, these people do not actually have the capacity to receive subsidies today. This law, which we will consider today, gives them the opportunity to do so. In addition, seven other laws allowing tax laws to regulate the status of family farms. And we have, I want to emphasize, only 28 of the 45,000 farms we had in 2009. So this is the question of the survival of millions of our citizens. And we insist on putting everyone in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u15	Please finish the 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u16	all these legislative initiatives and their consideration at this sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u17	Thank you. From the People's Front faction, the word is given to Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank each of you for taking responsibility yesterday for the implementation of the amendment package proposed by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk to the Tax and Budget Code. In fact, these are real reforms. We've done more transparent banking and we've allowed real bank owners to be held accountable for the crimes they're actually committing today. Because it's obvious that in those course fluctuations that every Ukrainian is suffering today, someone is making money, and this someone is the owner of the banks. We raised rents to ore, to transport ammonia and on many other things, and that means that we're going to fill the budget, first of all, at the expense of those people who have the money. We have eliminated special pensions, although this issue has caused much discussion in the hall, although it is an absolute norm for every normal European state. In fact, we have done our utmost today by Parliament to stabilize the course and stabilize the situation in the economy, because we have renewed trust in us from international financial institutions, and without that, the confidence of any investor cannot be trusted. Ukraine today seems to be in great need of foreign investment. But the main thing is to continue the reforms. What are some of the priorities of today’s reforms? According to the People's Front faction, Parliament must likewise be in the vanguard of reforms. First of all, it's a reform of decentralization and local self-government. We must here, in Parliament, give as much authority as possible. It's actually a reform of transparency, of transparency of government. And it's very good that today we're going to put into the agenda and hopefully we're going to be looking at this sessionary week's Presidential Bill, which is actually called upon to make more transparent data on all the information that the state owns. Obviously, it is time to embark on electoral reform, since we are talking about local elections today, and we do not fully understand what electoral system they will be in after. Well, finally, constitutional reform. You know, the President created a constitutional commission. Each faction must assign its representatives there. And it is very important that constitutional reform in Ukraine is truly a national consensus so that we can achieve a balance of power so that we can correct all the mistakes that exist in today's Constitution and be able to transform Ukraine into a truly European state. This is our job, and obviously this is priority number one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, the word is given to Yegor Sobolev. Please, Jehora Soboljeva to the rostrum for a fiery performance. We're waiting. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u20	Colleagues, there are a few things we need to do after Maidan, and none of us have the right to calm down until we do these things. First of all, let's let the people who gave their lives for Ukraine get the name Hero of Ukraine. The family of Zizniewsky, who is so familiar, so beloved, she asks so much about it, it's important to them. They live in a country where their son is considered a fascist. So let us repay him and mark him as the real hero of Ukraine. Such a bill has already been drafted, and a profile committee has been carried out. He needs to be put in the hall and we voted for him. The second important issue is the time to join the Rome Statute. The same bill is, there are 150 signatures. Let us go to the hall so that all things are honorable and we can prosecute the criminals who terrorized Euramydan in the International Court of Justice. Finally, it is time to remind the new Attorney General that he is no longer new. He's already a working attorney general. And we expect real results from him in being called to account by a gang that terrorized and shot Euromaidan. We won't forget it, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u21	Thank you so much for the show. All groups and factions made their appearance. Let's move on to the announcements and then to the agenda. So now I'm going to read out the announcements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council. So, the first announcement, I'm reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk, Sergey Petrovic, into the House of Deputies of the People's will in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary union "Ukraine – the Sea State". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Maksim Juriovich, was elected head of the Interfractional Union of Ukraine. Let's welcome him, Maxim, our sailor. Next announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association with the European Parliament, Ukraine-European Union, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of this interfractional MP was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine Klimpush-Cincadze Ivan Orestovna. Let's say hello to her. And the final announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the Interfractional Parliamentary Union of Poltavščina. He is the head of the inter-fractional "Poltavščina" inter-fractional association of the elected National Deputy of Ukraine, River Andrija Aleksandrovič. Let's say hello to our colleague. So we've announced all the messages that have come to the Presidency, and we're moving on to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u22	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we are moving on to the issue of the day’s order. Please prepare for the vote on the procedure for consideration of the matter, registration number. Dear colleagues, you are asked a question: To be included in the agenda of the day session in a number of drafts. Project registration number 2172 for inclusion in the agenda. Responsible for preparing the head of the profile committee. This bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine, a draft law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on access to information on budgetary indicators in the form of open data. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the voting room for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Dear colleagues! Questions are asked in the order of the day session. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Access to Information on Budget Indicators in the Format of Open Data. This is about open data, about a completely public, transparent bill introduced by the President of Ukraine. Please include it in the order of the day session. Please vote. Order of the day session, please vote, colleagues. Colleagues, please vote. [[12:37:12]] For 201 Dear colleagues, please concentrate on your work, please. Take your seats. Take your seats in the hall, please. Please, the Secretariat, invite the deputies to the hall. Take your seats, dear colleagues, please. Let's take another vote, registration number 2172. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. It's not like we're looking at it right now, it's just in the order of the day session. On the form of open data, 2172 please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[12:38:24]] For 258. Decision taken. Question enabled. Next question to be included in the agenda of the day, colleague. 2171 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning access to public information in the form of public data. Same as when you're open to public information. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:39:02]] For 265 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the work of Ukraine (for the establishment of the Day of the Day – Day of the Defender of Ukraine), introduced by the President of Ukraine, 2181, into the agenda of the day session. So that we can look at it. Please, Your Honor, back up. Please vote in favour. [[12:39:41]] For 247 Dear colleagues, a bill on the inclusion in the agenda, introduced by the Government of Ukraine, registration number 2149 – draft Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (to include the mobilized military service for the purpose of assigning a pension on extended terms) – on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:40:48]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. 2081 — Ukraine’s participation in international peace and security operations. A bill introduced by the Government of Ukraine. Registration number 2081. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[12:41:23]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, introduced by the Government of Ukraine, (2189), is to be incorporated into the agenda of the day session. [[12:41:59]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is 2182. A bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Registration number 2182. "Energy" on the characteristics of regulating energy relations in an area where government authorities temporarily fail or fail to fully exercise their powers. Please support the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day. [[12:42:52]] For 256 Thank you. Decision taken. 2065 Bill. Professional Committee, Denisova Ludmila Leontievna, 2065 We'll work it out, okay? Let's work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The bill is submitted to you in 2265. I want to remind you that yesterday we finished our consideration, agreed that it would be the first question today. There's a suggestion to consider it in the first reading based on a simplified procedure, let's say about, 2265, for consideration of the simplified procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[12:43:56]] For 190 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report to Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, I'm sorry I'm late. We all understand the complexity of today’s currency market situation. Thus, the government will apply all possible weights to stabilize the situation. To this end, we propose to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency, in particular, we propose to reduce, firstly, the time limits for counting the income of residents in foreign currency and their currency accounts in authorized banks in Ukraine, and to reduce the period of postponement for export and import operations from 180 to 90 days. I'll remind you that this is how it works today, and Nazibank has the same 90-day regime. It's different. Repeal the legislative rule that allows for an unlimited period of time to stop the recalculation of monetary revenue in Ukraine. I recall that the current legislation provides that, in the event of adoption by the court, the International Commercial Arbitration Court or the Maritime Arbitration Commission at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, a full statement by the resident of the non-resident debt withdrawals resulting from non-residential non-residential non-residential periods provided for in the export-import contracts, the period of the recalculation of the foreign exchange proceeds established by law, is not paid for and the penalty for their violations is not paid for during this period. This would also make it possible for businesses to circumvent a legislative norm that obliges exporters to return the foreign exchange proceeds to the country and stop counting the pennies for this. This is how large amounts of currency are now being withdrawn from the country. We suggest that this issue be settled on an urgent basis by removing the grounds that prevent the recalculation of the proceeds and by prohibiting the counting of the penalty regardless of the conversion of the owners to the courts. Yes, we understand that we are making regulation in this area much more severe.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u24	Do not limit yourself, please report to the Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u25	But this step is taken exclusively in the interests of the entire economy for a temporary period with a view to stabilizing the course situation. This can be cancelled as soon as he reaches his goal. Thirdly, we offer those companies that, by virtue of their business specifications, have to apply for an individual license to exceed the specified time limit, to simplify this process. At present, a special conclusion that gives the exporter the right to obtain such a licence gives the first Ministry of Economics and then gives the license itself to the National Bank of Ukraine. We suggest that the individual license be issued exclusively by Nazbank. Although it may be necessary to consult with Mineconomy. I mean, instead of two to one. in this way we will shorten the process of obtaining this license and thereby reduce the opportunities for corruption in this matter and the possibilities for interference of officials in this process. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u26	Thank you, Minister. Please. No, unforeseeable questions. Please report to the head of the profile committee. If there are any questions, I'll be able to ask them and answer them. Now we'll follow procedure, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u27	Mr. President, the honourable representatives, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting today reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main task of the bill is to speed up the collection of foreign currency residents' earnings and their currency accounts in authorized banks and to reduce the deadlines for the postponement of deliveries when imported from 180 to 90 days. It was also suggested that an individual licence should be obtained by the National Bank of Ukraine if a significant deadline was exceeded, while cancelling the need to obtain the conclusion of the central executive body implementing the State policy in the area of economic development. In addition, the bill repeals the law on the suspension of a pension for a violation by the resident of the above periods in the case of admission to court, an international, commercial, arbitral tribunal or the Maritime Arbitration Commission at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine of the resident's application for a non-resident debt withdrawal, which was due to non-residential default. The proposed changes are called upon to discipline foreign currency accountants and to stop the mass abuse of court charges in order to stop the use of sanctions. The main scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus is, in their conclusion, commenting on the bill. In its conclusion, the National Bank of Ukraine does not deny these standards. During the committee’s consideration of the bill, committee members made a number of small remarks that could be taken into account in the drafting of the bill in very strict terms. Therefore, the committee proposes: decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill based on a shorter deadline for preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u28	Thank you, sir. Please sign up: 2 is for, 2 is against. Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u29	Respectful colleagues are certainly an important law and must be supported in order to prevent the abuses that are currently on the foreign exchange market. It means when importers, in violation of the law, withdraw money on subscription and then do not come to Ukraine. And so exporters are placing goods and not making use of the rules of this law of monetary profit, from which we have destabilization of our nation's balance of payments. But in particular, the bill proposes to delete, in general, the rule of article 4 that pennies are suspended when a lawsuit is brought before a court or an International Commercial Arbitration Court. Dear colleagues, we must understand with you that the standards of this law will not only extend to unscrupulous exporters and importers. So there's this proposal to support this law as a basis. But these are the standards that Minfin proposes that we rule out in article 4. Our proposal for the Self-Help faction is to limit the action of this norm, more specifically, to halt this rule for 2015 until 1 January 2016. Because this is a temporary crisis that is aimed exclusively at stabilizing now in these terms of the balance of payments and the coming of the currency proceeds. So once again under the transcript, I repeat that we are ready to support this bill on the basis of, provided that, in article 4 of these rules on the suspension of foaming, the filing of a lawsuit and the commercial arbitration of suspension and the operation of these rules for 2015, and that they begin to take effect as of 1 January 2016. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Kuprienka, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u31	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laška, Chernigovishte. We support this bill, it's important, it's on time, and it's long overdue. But the point of the bill is that the extension of the delay of the currency is transferred from the Ministry to the National Bank. And if the bribes were previously taken by the Ministry, they will be taken to the National Bank. The law does not specify on what grounds Natzbank will continue to do, the term of office. That's to issue a license. Therefore, it is necessary to revise the law and establish a second reading so that the issue of individual licences for the extension of the period of delay in the return of monetary values is based on a reasoned decision of the relevant authority. And that's the only time! - It won't. It's a corrupt ingredient there. In this regard, I stress once again that the National Bank, under the direction of the head that it is now, will do no good. This bill should therefore be adopted and considered in connection with the question of the resignation of the Head of the National Bank. By the way, if we put this standard in place, if I turn to Self-Help, when we make a reasoned decision, and the question is, if the subject goes to court, that'll be the basis for the extension of the license period, and then the foam won't count. That's why. This issue can also be settled precisely with the determination of the law on a reasoned decision, which will be the basis for the licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u32	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honorable national MPs, respectable citizens, voters, business representatives! In fact, the bill is aimed at combating domestic importers, residents of Ukraine, who do import and export activities. What is proposed by the government? First of all, it is proposed to reduce the time frame at the legislative level for expert import operations, i.e. the calculation of the transactions in question. I would like to point out that, as Mrs. Jaresko has already said, we have a 90-day deadline, which is set up by the National Bank of Ukraine, because these powers are given in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency. So changing it again from 180 days to 90 days, that's going to mean that there's no longer a larger calculation period in Ukraine. Secondly, I think it's a criminal initiative to propose the deletion of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the order of settlement in foreign currency. What do they mean? A representative of the committee said that the bill was called upon to discipline. Who are we going to discipline? Importers or Exporters? Non-resident or non-resident exporters? In fact, the legislative initiative will be aimed at violating the legal rights of exporters and importers, the residents of Ukraine who cannot act have legal weights against unscrupulous non-residents. And filing or failing appropriate appeals to the Court, to the International Arbitration Commission, the International Commercial Arbitration Court will not lead to a suspension of the terms of the penalty. In fact, this puts them in a discriminatory position. This will mean the collapse of exports and imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u35	Honorable national MPs, when there is any problem, first of all, find out its reasons, remove these reasons, not fight the consequences. The proposed Law is a classic project to combat the consequences. Will the shortening of the maturity of the exchange rate increase the number of currencies? No, on the contrary, it will strike trade transactions, including exports. Do you realize that Ukraine is not a very good partner who can place products without subscription? Please tell me, how will the Ukrainian manufacturer purchase the technology that requires the long-term flow of production? What a foreign partner will do when he has to invest in his 30 ’ s? 90 days? Equally dangerous is this project for Ukrainian exports, which is provided under the conditions of payment. Shortening the maturity of monetary revenue will require an increase in the number of trips to the National Bank of Ukraine. In this room, however, the fight against corruption has been discussed on more than one occasion. What is the fight against corruption when the number of permits of a Ukrainian official increases? And finally, lastly, if this law provides that you are forbidden to stop counting a penny. Regrettably, it is not just in Ukraine that is being deceived. You can be dumped abroad. And when you've been thrown abroad, you've got a fine counter on it. And this counter could have been stopped by the court before, and now the government is proposing that this counter should not be stopped at all. The man slipped. What should we do? That's right, we should get it. That is the logic of this law. If an enterprise has been abandoned, or damaged, it is proposed by the law to obtain this Ukrainian enterprise. If some feel that this is the right decision, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u36	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u37	You know, this is a bill that can apply old wisdom: and you, Victor Mikhailovich, are right, and you, the government, are right. So if we don't solve the issue now, in fact, of money-exchange devices abroad, and these devices are given the possibility of 180 days of non-return to Ukraine, these devices are made possible through the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to actually stop any court rulings on this, we will receive and continue to receive fictitious transactions that will take place on this market. It is our faction, Fatherland, that supports the adoption of this bill on first reading. And those warnings that have arisen regarding the corruption component, work on the second reading and make appropriate suggestions. But to leave the currency market situation when virtually the form of contracts brings currency abroad and does not come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u38	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u39	It's impossible to leave. So the "Fatherland" faction proposes to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, People's Front. Then Yuri Lewchenko of the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! In our speeches, we're all very convincingly telling how we fight for the state, how we fight for the people, how we want a stable course, how we fight against corruption. And when it comes to voting, there are some concepts that the investment climate needs to be improved. That a law that doesn't allow money to be stolen is a bad law. That he should be voted on in the first reading and taken care of. There's nothing to deal with. Today, according to official data alone, more than a billion dollars have been withdrawn from this miserable country. It's official. I'm sure it's three times more off the record! It's about equipment and everything. The law only speaks of advance payments. Maybe who doesn't know, there are letters of credit that are confirmed, unconfirmed. And this law does not limit them. That's why the faction of the People's Front requires, it's an urgent law, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. If there are any comments, it will never be too late to return to this law, to improve it. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u42	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u43	Today, there is a speculative flow of currency in the form of a parallel scheme. And we have to block these schemes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u45	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, we're so glad our government finally started doing something about the currency problem today in the country. Not only do we export the currency and not only help and work for the speculators but we also fight against it. I mean, that's good. And this law should not be introduced today, but it should have been passed months ago. It's for those of you who are in such a hurry right now and say, let's do it in general. And the law is generally positive. But it has a huge, corrupt component that cannot be allowed. It's a language that's licensed by Nazbank. The law does not specify in any way how, on the basis of what and on the basis of what criteria, these licences will be issued in no way. Accordingly, Nazbank is allowed to give his own judgment to someone, not to betray anyone. Well, it's a direct feed for Mrs. Huntareva or her successors, who are likely to appear soon. So "Freedom" requires that this law be passed. To be approved in the first reading today. In the short term, work on and accept as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the final word will now be given to the Minister. But I'd like everyone to take their seats. There were a number of suggestions. I think many of them are right. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Final word, Finance Minister Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I just want to emphasize that we don't change the terms of this law. So there are 90 days today, in practice it's 90 days in Nazbank, and it's going to be in the law. The other one. As for sporeness and the ability to use corrupt factors to get a license on the deadline, I'm sorry, for extension. What has been said by the Radical Party creates greater opportunities. Because when you talk about a fixed one, who decides whether or not to do so. Do we have a system today? We have, first, the Mineconomies to go and ask for permission, and their good, and then to Nazbank. The other one. We're just talking about the simplification instead of the Mineconomy and the Natzbank in Natzbank. Why Natzbank? Because Natzbank controls the currency. There's no other place, no other institution that's responsible for the country's balance of payments. So I'm asking you to adopt this law in the first reading today. And then if you want to work on it, but do it as fast as you can. Because once again, the 13th year export proceeds did not come back to Ukraine billion dollars, and in the 14th year contract year, 742 million did not return to Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u48	Thank you, Minister. Of course, there is a problem that needs to be settled. I think it would be quite right to take into account the self-help proposals that came out under the transcript, vote it in order to support the minister and support the first step in solving this problem, and everyone has identified it as a problem on the basis. During the preparations, the MPs will then determine what standards may be acceptable, which ones are not. We realize that it is important when the law is passed in general. And for the second reading, you will prepare it and we will continue to consult you on its adoption: the government, the factions and the groups, as well as the non-fractional MPs, the coalition will determine whether or not to adopt this law. I think it's going to be completely objective right now to just take it as a base. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Take your seats, please. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. We're going to vote now on the base of 2265. You heard the minister's position. Taking into account the position of Self-Help under the transcript, what National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikov said. Ready, colleagues? Ready? Bill No. 2265 is put to the vote on the basis of the proposals of the Ostrikov People’s Deputy. Please vote on the basis. Based on the base. [[13:07:24]] For-162 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, is it necessary to go back to the consideration of this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is an offer by Andrey Cosemyakin to return to the vote. Please, let's try to get back to that question. Please come back. [[13:08:14]] For a hundred and No votes. Dear colleagues, I suggest you do it this way. Now to support everyone's friendly offer to get the subject of the legislative initiative back on track, we will be able to identify this issue. I don't see any problems in this. What's the problem? Please return the subject for processing. Please vote for the return. [[13:08:52]] For 219 The bill is considered to be rejected. Thank you. Let's move on, fellow officials, (registration number 1547, 1547) registration number, draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u49	Vladimir Borisovich, give me a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u50	1547 concerning the organization of defence orders, defence planning, 1547. Please, there's an offer by Sergey Pashinsky to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:09:45]] For-75 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs, there is a minutely offer to be given out of place. One minute, and one minute, who else? And a minute of Pashinsky. Please, Baby, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, an important bill aimed at returning foreign exchange proceeds to Ukraine has just been broken in Parliament. I am surprised by the position of the Head of the Supreme Council, who pretends that nothing has happened, as if it should, and says, move on. I think we should go back to this bill. We ask the faction, the Presidential faction to explain why it does not vote in favour of returning the currency proceeds to Ukraine in order to stabilize the bracelet in order to restore the balance of payments. And I demand to go back to this bill, to accept it, and to return the money abroad to Ukraine, not to keep it out of sight and abroad. And make money like Gonnaareva on the edge of the course bracelet. If you don't go back to this bill, we're going to block the rostrum requiring the resignation of Hunter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, well, if there's anything to comment on, it's a surprising position. You look at my position during the vote. I voted in favour of this bill so you wouldn't be surprised by the position. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to lower my degree and turn, firstly, to all the members of the coalition who voted yesterday for an extremely important package of laws that give us the opportunity, the opportunity, to stabilize our financial banking system. One of these laws that this possibility is allowed to implement is today's bill. I want to go back to my coalition colleagues. Everybody knows that, including what's happening to our national currency, it's the work of speculators, it's the work of bad banks. That's why we strongly support the government's proposals to end this. And we don't understand the position of our partners who speak one word and vote in another. Dear Speaker, Vladimir Borisovich, we do not see the possibility of continuing our work until we adopt this law as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u54	Please, Igor Connonenko, from the Peter Dust Block. Then Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Igor Kononenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Why? We had a serious discussion about the faction bill, why our faction was identified and did not support this bill in the hall. First of all, in our opinion, this bill has an essential component of corruption, which is the first position, and it needs to be removed from there. Second position. In our view, this bill is not perfect because it doesn't work against fraudsters who spend money abroad, unfortunately. Because costs abroad come from firms that then cease to exist, and no sanctions against them work. This law beats businesses that work honestly and hit the real economy, unfortunately. That's why. But. But, colleagues, in the position of the committee, there is a reasonable proposal for an international court procedure. Once again, we need to increase the responsibility. So the proposal to the hall and the proposal, I go to the faction, let's send this law to the committee and work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u56	Thank you. Guys, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u57	Return to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u58	Listen, calm down! So let's know how, let's not talk ultimatums here -- we'll work, we won't work. We are with you to make consensus decisions, to find understanding. If something went wrong as you planned, nothing tragic happened. And you don't have to make a tragedy out of it. Please, Oleg Berezuk. I'm going to put a vote on the return to this bill, there were proposals from three factions. The vote is yes. No, within the framework of the coalition, within the Conciliation Board we will work out other decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head! No doubt this law needs further work. But I have a claim to Peter Poshenko's Block, which is your finance minister, and I have a claim, both ours and yours. But I have a claim to some inadequacy of drafting legislation. Because you had time yesterday and the day before yesterday to clear those things up. Why didn't you do it? So today you are throwing the country into a completely unnecessary discussion. The proposal is very natural and it was normal to go back to work, work, and accept. Because he is truly imperfect and we agree. So there were offers of self-help with her suggestions to return either to the committee or to the government, or to accept on the first reading and to be processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u60	Colleagues, look, I think that's what it's about to take -- it's not likely there'll be voices. Let's send, listen to me, let's send him to the committee now to prepare for the second reading. Excuse me, first reading, but let's see if we can get him out on Thursday. Is that the position taken? We'll put it on the committee to prepare for the re-reading, and we'll put it on Thursday, and we'll vote in agreement. Roger that. Let's try to put it to a vote. Let's try to vote it out, to the committee for the re-reading and for the preparation for the re-first reading. Is the People's Front voting for such an offer? You don't vote. They're calling for a break. Okay. Then, and we've finished the discussion. Dear colleagues, I announce a fifteen - minute break. And after that, we can come back. 15 minutes off. The factions and coalition leaders, please come to my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u61	Please come into the hall. Break's over, we're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats in the hall, we will continue our work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow members of the National MPs, as a result of the factions of the coalition and the meeting, it was decided that, between 14 and 16 hours, there would be a meeting of the factions of the "Block of Peter Prashenko", which would be attended by the minister, the relevant experts, where the issue of Bill No. (2065) would be discussed once again. And we're going to consider it because we haven't found an agreed solution. As a result of this meeting, the faction’s meetings will be held at an evening session of 16 hours. And that was the unanimous unanimous decision of all faction leaders. I think a lot of issues will be discussed and removed from the warnings about this bill at the faction meeting. Dear colleagues, we can continue to consider matters of the order of the day. We have a bill (registration number 1547, 1547) which is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act in a new edition. It was suggested that the deputy Yvchenka consider the bill by a reduced procedure. Are you ready to vote in favour of the shorter procedure? Ready? Colleagues willing to vote in favour of a reduced procedure? Still no votes? Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to review Bill 1547 under reduced procedure. Ready to vote? Please identify yourself: using a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please support me, colleagues, vote. [[13:46:18]] For-126 Procedural question, it takes 150 votes. Please be prepared again. Pashinsky was unable to vote. At the suggestion of Sergey Pashinsky. 1547 under the reduced procedure for the consideration of the short-term bill. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:46:50]] For-149 Dear colleagues, offer. Self-help didn't work with the National MP. Once again for a vote on the consideration of Bill 1547 under the shorter procedure. Please vote. [[13:47:21]] For-164 Decision taken. I'm handing over the lead to the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, because I've got a meeting with the miners now, and I've got colleagues from the rostrum speaking. Let's take a look at the problem. I would also like to entrust the Justice Committee with an urgent consideration of the issue of the arrest of judges. At 3 p.m., hold a committee meeting, make proposals to Parliament to vote on the matter. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u63	Thank you. So we have to take a break. Please, I'm asking the deputies very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-03-m0.u64	Stop! I'm asking you to unlock, unlock, colleagues. Unlock! Calm down! Stop! Melniczuk! Stop, I said. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! Step aside, please. I'm asking you to stop them. Disarm it. Take your seats, MPs. Take your seats, please. Let's go. Here you go. Take your seats, please. Let's go. Places, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mosiyczuk! Mosiyczuk! Stop! All of it. That's it, that's it. Get to your seats, please, colleagues! Everything's exhausted. Let's go. Places, please, colleagues. One minute, respectable colleagues, one minute. I'm asking everyone to sit down. Places, please, everyone, please. Places, please take your seats, fellow members of the National People's Party! I have a request, please take your seats. Get out of there. Dear colleagues! I declare the morning session closed. Tonight's meeting at 4:00 p.m. Thank you.
