ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u1	Good afternoon again, fellow countrymen! We're continuing our meeting. More precisely, we begin the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that the Economic Policy Committee has held its meeting. I made the right decision. I've made the right decision, and now we're going to go to the next question. First. We need to register, honorary fellow national MPs, and open an evening meeting. Next. I'm asking you to invite me. Who will report from the government? Ministry of Justice. Okay. Please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Please turn on the glade system for registration. [[16:20:31]] Registered -319 Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And before we begin our consideration of Bill No. 2273, we need to adopt a decision on the first issue of the evening session. Remember, yes, there was such an offer. That's why I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies to take their seats, prepare for the vote. And the first proposal I'm going to put to the vote is the draft bill 2273 first in the evening session that you and I just opened. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, ready to vote on debate 2273. Please vote on the bill (registration number 2273) for the first meeting of this evening’s session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:22:28]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. But I would like to point out that, in the course of my consideration, I will give everyone the opportunity to make a statement on this bill. Is it accepted? Please make a proposal to review this bill on a reduced basis, but agree that it will be possible for everyone to make a statement. Please refer to the simplified review procedure. [[16:23:16]] For 213 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister of Justice, the First Deputy Minister of Justice. The committee is now returning, members of the committee to the session room as soon as the committee head for the report appears, I will give him my word. First Deputy Minister of Justice, please. Please inform us about the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Once again, we go back to a very painful and important question about a project developed by the government that is being re-examined. The project is proposed by the Act of Ukraine of 13 January 2015 amending article 41 of the Act on Shareholders Associations (for the quorum of the general meeting of shareholders with major corporate rights) to amend the Act on Shareholder Associations, according to which the provisions on the reduction of the quorum are introduced only in respect of stockholder societies in statutory capital, in which the State has corporate rights and in which the State owns 50th and more percent of the simple shares of society. As for all others, the relevant changes will only take effect on 1 January 2016 with the aim of ensuring a single non-discriminatory approach by the State to all equity companies, the bill is now being proposed, not as of 1 January 2016, to introduce a reduction in the quorum for all shareholders, including companies with statutory capital in which the State has corporate rights and in which the State owns 50th and more percent of the simple shares of the society. In addition, the draft law provides for an amendment to articles 38 and 55 of the Act on Shareholder Associations (to improve the mechanism for selecting candidates and the activities of shareholders). I would like to point out that at the committee meeting, it was decided to support it as a basis. Please, let's support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u3	Thank you. Please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two for two, two against. Then I will give the opportunity to speak to those who do not participate in the discussion. At the conclusion of the discussion, we will listen to the committee’s information. Please. Paul Kishkar, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u4	Please pass it on to Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u5	Please, People's Deputy Birddog, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. The Self-Help faction will vote for him. Moreover, we will vote on the basis and in general on the bill. You've all seen that the Economic Policy Committee's meeting is, unfortunately, very difficult to gather. Today we are gathered from the seventh attempt. This bill is a government bill, it's pretty important. Moreover, the decline of the quorum to 50 percent plus one share is fully in line with European practice. Nor are the standards for the Supervisory Board discriminatory. And you don't have to listen to those who talk about raids and so on. Because these standards apply to the Supervisory Board, they are in line with the interests of shareholders. The Supervisory Board, I want to draw your attention, is still a representative body representing the interests of shareholders. Today, it is not uncommon for members of the Supervisory Board, who are representatives of minority shareholders, to block the entire business activity of shareholders, and even to prevent the gathering of shareholders, the general congregation of shareholders. Because it is the Supervisory Board that is the body that brings together the general meeting of shareholders. So the Self-Help faction will support this bill. Moreover, we understand the social need. The whole society is waiting and the whole society is looking at us today as we vote for it. That's why we're going to vote, and we're going to vote on the basis, and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u7	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u8	Oleg Lazko, a radical party. Dear colleagues of the people's deputies from various factions, I am now addressing you personally. I think what's going on around this bill is the humiliation of the Ukrainian Parliament, it's the humiliation of every one of those sitting in this room. Because it turns out that one person can block the committee's work, block the adoption of the law, and the entire Supreme Council can't do anything about it, which we have to force to review the government's law: back it up, let Parliament vote on the decision to return 25 billion dollars of dividends to the budget. The government comes to us with bills, 15 percent of the pension is taken from pensioners. Yesterday, so - called economically sound tariffs, which are 10 times higher, raise other questions. Right here, everything's coming from the wheel. And how to take property they stole from the oligarchs, how to return billions to the state budget that go to the oligarchs' pocket today -- this is where the Supreme Council can't gather for months, 10 times the committee can't get together, parliament can't vote. Once again, we are offered a solution — just on the basis of it. Why on the Basis? Because the next meeting of the Supreme Council will be in just two weeks. And in two weeks, once again, they think they're going to buy deputies, they're going to take the law again so they don't vote. I'm speaking to the Head of the Supreme Council, and we've had discussions all day in the office today, and I want Ukrainian citizens to know that blocking the work of Parliament today by fellow MPs -- it was a forced decision to react to the fact that the oligarchs continue to run Parliament. Well, I urge you to vote on the law as a whole, cut off the oligarchic hydra, which continues to govern Parliament and do nothing! [[Applause]] Get off the oligarchs of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian society!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u9	Please, National MP Pober, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u11	People's MP Solovay. Calm down, colleagues. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u12	Yuri Solovay, UDA MP, deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear colleagues, in other words, I am a disgrace to describe what has happened in recent days with the Committee on Economic Policy -- the language does not come back. This is not at all what people expect of us and what Ukrainian society expects of us. Because, sorry, when you have to take your salary off the budget, then the committee is meeting, Parliament is voting in the first reading and in general. When social benefits and pensions are to be removed, the committees gather and vote in favour. Parliament also voted on the basis as a whole. And when, I apologize, and when four billion dollars to fill the budget is at stake, the Economic Policy Committee cannot gather for two weeks. And it's a good thing that conscious members of the Supreme Council, who have blocked the rostrum, have managed to hold an economic policy committee today. But it's only half a step. Because if the Ukrainian Parliament votes only on the basis of this decision today, it means that the bill will be sent back to the Committee on Economic Policy and we will go back on the same circle once, twice, third, fourth, fifth. [[Applause]] And none of that is going to happen. And so I think today's vote should be a test for the Ukrainian Parliament, for who they work. And today's vote will answer Ukrainian society and Ukrainian citizens who are in Ukrainian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u13	People's Deputy Voropeyev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! When, remember, we had twice voted on such a bill, and when we told you not to break the Constitution, do as we have done now, yes. You said, "No, there must be a separate condition for the company." Remember, Self-Help shouted, "Ten years is a time-consuming condition for the introduction of this law." Was it? It was like that. What's going on now? A new law has been passed, thanks to the great Ministry of Justice. But it added another rule on observation boards and said that no matter what society, what shareholders, what number of parities, what number of shareholders, what number of shareholders, what kind of vote, what kind of vote, what kind of vote? I'll give you two little examples, let's say, in a stock society of 50 by 50 or 75 by 25. Under the law, the Supervisory Board is elected by a summary vote: how many shares do you have as many members of the Supervisory Board: either 3 plus 1, or 2 plus 2, for example. One of them got sick or died or was hidden in the basement somewhere, and parity is breaking. What happens next? And what happens is that whoever steals your member of the Watcher Board will be in charge of that watcher's board. We're saying, remove this stupid rule that allows raiders to continue commanding in society. Leave everything else alone. We'll vote, we'll be happy to vote. We're told, "No, we need it." Maybe for some society this is an exception to the rules, and I can't say that now, I don't know. But if we make the law a whole law for the State, for all the shareholders, we can't do it in any way. We must give the shareholders the right to decide for themselves: unanimously. The Committee may wish to take a decision. And last of all, with respect. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u15	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u16	The payment of dividends is not necessary at all, no matter what decision it makes, any other decision may be taken by the Assembly. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u18	This law has been reviewed several times at the People's Front factions. This faction did not say a word of criticism of the bill, none. He was consistently single - handed. I would also like to point out that this is a government bill, and it is under the Prime Minister's signature. I want to point out that this bill is a child of the government coalition. I want to point out that this bill is a child of the Prime Minister. And what I'm saying is, I want to welcome to this session hall, that these are finally the first parliamentary meetings at which most of the oligarchs don't exist, the oligarch lobby in this Supreme Council, most of the oligarchs are not here. But the oligarchs here operate by manipulation. And voting on the basis is a child of these manipulators. [[Applause]] So I urge the Hall not to discredit the government coalition, not to discredit the Prime Minister, not to discredit the Ukrainian state idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, before I went to this rostrum, I analyzed the practice. Maybe it's a practice that 60 plus 1 percent works in all countries? Is that how some of the other shareholders' rights are protected? That's a lie. And just so you know, the practice that exists in the world is 1 percent, and that's your right to come to the stockholders' congregations or not to come. For example, in a country like France, there is no barrier at all. You determine whether to come or not to come. Therefore, our insistence is to support all previous statements, voting in general. What's more, the norm that the Opposition Block objected to, it's clear why they're against it. Because such a Mr. Ahmedov, after taking over Dniproenergo, is a unique company that he owns, in violation of virtually all the laws of Ukraine, he will continue to govern Ahmetov. Thus, this law, which states order among all shareholders who own a share of government shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u21	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u22	This is definitely because the second part is as important to us as it is to us. When the government passed a bill on the right to notarize the dividends paid, it failed. Thus, the amendment that has now been made allows for the determination of the payment order of dividends and for the purpose of never deceiving the state again. Therefore, the request for this to be voted on in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u23	Thank you. National MP Barwinenko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! In this bill, we see a rather difficult fate in Parliament and, of course, there are many issues, including the coming and the coming stages, including the committee. However, Mrs. Deputy Minister spoke and there are regulations that many here are critical of voting on the basis of this bill. I want to say that there are a number of amendments that have been prepared by the Rebirth Group and have been asked to support the procedure and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u25	Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u26	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, it's perfectly understandable to all conscious people in Parliament who really think about society, not their pockets, that this bill needs to be voted on and adopted on an urgent basis and in general, right now, there's no discussion here. I'd just like to ask a question, so certain, rhetorical. Would it be a responsibility to delay consideration of the project? For several months, an artificially oligarhat operates a state - owned enterprise. There's a faction here just, the faction is that it's supporting this project, that the government is supporting it. No questions asked. So you have to rule out the faction of a person who has deliberately delayed this bill. Turn it off publicly, please show that you really support it, not do it. Therefore, please encourage us to accept as a whole. Here, it has just been officially stated that someone has been amended, let them officially state that the whole country sees who is against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u27	Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today can really be a historic day, because for the first time in 13 years, we can get the opportunity to put state leadership on the company Ukranafta. Crohnafta is an enterprise where in the state a control package of 50 percent plus one share and 43 percent in the oligarch of Igor Kolomoyski, who runs and manages the company since Leonid Kuchma. And he himself confessed to paying bribes for $5 million to get this company under his control. The time has finally come to put an end to this. Because even the dividends that were distributed in October last year are still outstanding because Mr. Cologne controls management. During this time, the bracelet was worthless. If he had to pay more than $140 million earlier, he would now pay less than $100 million out of the dividends he would have made in the budget. So I ask you to vote on this law as a whole, there is no time to delay. This question is out of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u29	Thank you, fellow national MPs. Please, National Deputy Ivanchuk, head of the profile committee. Please inform the committee. You're a co-reporter on this. Invite the national deputies to the hall. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u30	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee considered Bill 2273. After the discussion, two questions were put to the vote. First of all, it's the adoption of the bill, the recommendation to Parliament to adopt it on the first reading as a basis. It was unanimously supported by the committee. And the second sentence, avoid second reading and vote it out as a whole. The committee did not vote for the proposal. Let me explain why. Your Honor, in this bill, 2273, I am addressing fellow national MPs who are allowing themselves to criticize a certain position of my colleagues. First of all, this bill, read the title. It's "amendments to a bill that regulates the activities of shareholders." There's not a word in here about "Scrooge." I'd like to warn the honourable colleagues of the national MPs who read this bill, who were publicly told by their colleagues that they had a point, they want to amend it. We have two ways of acting. We can, in violation of the Rules, by violating the right of our colleagues who publicly declared from this rostrum that they had been amended, to go to that violation. Then we're going to need everything equally (I'm asking for at least today, last time you didn't hear me), the bill needs to make a very good right bill, but there are two minor nuances that we can very calmly follow the reduced procedure of the second reading, Mr. Head, correct and there will be no comments. So I ask you to put to the vote the decision of the committee on the adoption of bill 2273 on the first reading as a basis. Thank you. I'll give you the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, national deputies, you have been brought to your consideration. Please invite the national MPs. To your consideration, honourable colleagues, a bill (registration No. 2273) was introduced to amend the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders' Associations on the Payment of Dividends to Shareholders, which was prepared and introduced by the Government of Ukraine and today was held by a committee of profile which decided to adopt the bill as a basis. Colleagues! Colleagues! Colleagues! The committee decided to consider the bill as a basis. In accordance with the Rules. Listen, colleagues, please listen, and then you'll tell me what to do. Do you have a deal? I'm underlining that. Thank you for your understanding. In accordance with the Rules, I will now put this issue on the ground. Once we vote on it as a basis, according to 102, 114 articles, I'm going to ask Parliament to deviate from the procedure and you're going to figure out how to proceed, it's going to be a parliamentary decision, not mine or not yours. [[Applause]] And then we're going to move on. And the labels hang, the colleagues, and the labels. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the ethos may apply, not to the procedure of consideration, but to the shortening of terms and not to the procedure of decision-making. My colleague Vlasenko will inform you. And so, we prepared. Please vote 2273 on the basis. [[16:46:22]] For 299 It's almost a constitutional majority. Dear colleagues, there were. Listen to what you're running Parliament, I don't understand. It's all your time. Now, there was a proposal by the Ukrainian people's deputies to vote on this bill as a whole. And I'm going to now put forward this proposal to consider, to make a deviation from the vote, and to consider this bill as a whole. Please identify the people's deputies of Ukraine. [[16:47:09]] For 269 In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as chairman of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I place the bill of registration number 2273 as a whole. Appoint by vote, colleagues. [[16:47:37]] For 275 Decision taken. [[Applause]] And now, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask all of you to apologize to each other for speaking out of this rostrum and putting out some bad labels for your colleagues. Okay? Not in public. Thank you, colleagues. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 119, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 7, Self-help – 22, Radical Party – 19, Father's Front – 16, Rebirth – 1, Will of the People – 11, non-fractional – 15. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. For your consideration, fellow citizens of the nation are introducing a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian intelligence laws (registration No. 2383). There is a proposal for the head of the profile committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[16:48:58]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please, the head of the profile committee, Sergey Pashinsky. Please be within 4 minutes. Please. Andrew Levus, please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Act amending some of the laws on intelligence. The main purpose of this law is to improve the work of our intelligence services, to bring their work into time, to the demands of war. Under this bill, changes are made to a number of Ukrainian laws, including the Law on Intelligence and Search, which means that we increase the term of operational search, increase the term from 2 months to 6 months, and the judge gives permission, because the External Intelligence Service needs more time. Amendments to the Intelligence Act also make changes to clarify the use of special technology, special intelligence tools, and allow the External Intelligence Service to work roughly abroad in international terrorist organizations and anti - Ukrainian organizations in order to protect actively Ukrainian national interest. There is also an improvement in the fact that the External Intelligence Service is becoming a more independent structure, i.e. it introduces its own reserve of the External Intelligence Service and also introduces its military account of the External Intelligence Service, it becomes more, let's say, independent of the Ukrainian Security Service in this matter, because it was common there. The committee unanimously supported the bill. He also agreed normally and worked closely with the External Intelligence Service and the General Intelligence Directorate. It is a great request to support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u33	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u34	And there's no co-reporter, is there? Thank you. Please welcome Lenski of the Radical Party and he will pass on the word to Moses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. An extremely important bill is being considered that will allow Ukrainian intelligence to act fully outside the State against terrorists, against anti-Ukrainian organizations. It took a long time to set an example, an advanced and world experience, and to get from abroad those who flee from Ukrainian justice and not only to get away with it. Enemies who lead call upon our land of invaders, terrorists, all of them in the sight of external intelligence. And of course this bill contributes. In addition, I want to focus on the fact that without intelligence there are enough enemies. A few minutes ago, a report was published on the Supreme Council site on the registration of the 2425 Bill on the Prevention of Criminal Persecution, the Involvement of Criminal Responsibility and the Punishment of Persons, the participants in events in Donetské and Luhansk region by Nestor Shufrich, Sergey Dunaev, Yuri Voropejev, Alexy Biliy, Sergey Matvienkov. So these are the accomplices of the terrorists who are now in the House of Parliament. They are now, an hour of fighting in Shirokino, and these podunks are registering a bill to justify those who are killing our soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u36	Thank you. Please, Stephen Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u37	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, we are in a position of a front that is not only in the field of direct military aggression by the Russian Federation. We are witnessing that in our territory, we have been actively engaged in the last almost 23 years in special intelligence work of the Russian Federation. Their main idea was the demoralization and destruction of the army, the destruction of our special services. And today we are facing a choice, or we are reshaping, strengthening our special services that will enable us to maintain our territorial integrity and our statehood. So in principle, we stand in the position that this law should be adopted in the light of the bitter experience that our country has experienced in Ukraine because, over the past 22 years, the Russian Federation's special forces, the FSB, have been actively recruiting and working with our and our law enforcement officers and the military for a long time. As a result, we were betrayed. That is why we need to do everything we can to make it impossible for what happened in the future to happen again. And we have to do everything we can to have security services that are capable not only of FSB but of Putin himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u38	Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Pashinsky Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! This bill is no less important than the one we voted for 10 minutes ago. That is why I ask you, Mr. Chairman and colleagues, let us remember our responsibilities, take our seats, and prepare for the vote. Because this bill deals with a very important issue, namely, that we allow our intelligence services to actually operate in occupied areas. As the Supreme Council, the occupied territories are clearly defined, and this solves the main problem. We didn't have that in our legislation. We had no intelligence in fact a year ago, because in the days of Yanukovich, they were demolished and destroyed. Now we're playing both our army and our Nachwardia and our intelligence. And I very much ask all my colleagues to take their seats, to vote. We're going to create another mechanism to defend our national interests, we're going to create another tool to protect our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u41	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." I'm asking you to come into the hall. Then there was Andrew Kozemyakin. And we'll vote. Fatherland, Andrew Cosemiakin. Please, for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u42	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. We thank both the committee and the developers for this bill -- urgent, logical, correct. The only thing the Self-Help faction insists on is that we pay attention to the people who lead this intelligence, because there are constructive, clear claims against these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u43	Thank you. Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u44	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction in the Supreme Council believes and supports today's actions as deputies, our colleagues, members of the Defence Committee, as well as the President's actions today to increase the level of professionalism, as well as to equip the Foreign Intelligence and Military Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defense. In fact, in times of criminal power these divisions were almost destroyed, but thanks to professionals they now have the opportunity to fight the enemy in the east. Thank the developers. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we understand what this is about. An extremely important bill. People's deputies, please take your seats in the hall. We will proceed to the vote in favour of the bill (registration no. 2383), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on Ukrainian intelligence. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished fellow national MPs, please take your seats, we will vote in favour of this bill. And I'm still going to have another very important proposition. I'd like to take her into account. Please, colleagues, 2,383 – on the basis and in general, according to the decision of the committee. The factions have all expressed the need for this bill and the importance of Ukrainian intelligence and intelligence. Please, colleagues, please vote 2,383 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. We support you, colleagues. [[16:59:24]] For 258. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make this offer. We have many other important bills that we're going to adopt today, but a few are very special, in my opinion. We have a bill waiting for the whole society -- the issue of social television -- (registration number 1357). We have an important bill prepared by the Coalition Council. I think that many groups are supporting it in order to ban migration between groups in order to increase the responsibility of deputies for matters related to violations of the Rules and of discipline in the session hall. This is a very important question, and we need to put order in place. I signed it and introduced it, this bill, but once again, I want to emphasize that this bill is put forward at the suggestion of coalition factions, and I am convinced by all groups and national MPs. I would like to request that Bill 1357, at the suggestion of the 2300 Committee of Profiles, be moved and brought to the table, and now continue with these bills, the consideration of these two bills. 23. More specifically, 1357 is social language and 2,300 is about how fashionable to speak for fighting "carcases". Colleagues, no objection? I'll put it to a vote. Please vote in favour of these two bills. Colleagues, please support. [[17:01:34]] For 217 We haven't been able to vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Fellows, the proposal is once again: 1,357 now, 2,300 after it, and then the day after it. Please vote. Please be supportive. 1357 and 2300. Please support the consideration of these two bills. [[17:02:31]] For 219 Guys, there's something I can't understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1357, 2300, me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, colleagues, I would like to stress that there are two important bills. One is about social talk, the other is about changes to the Rules for the Fight against "Couches". Pick them up now and consider now 1357 and 2,300 in a row. And then we're going to continue our whole day-to-day review. And I would like to support this proposal so that we can now consider this bill. Here's the deal. Okay? I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote, Your Honor. Please be supportive. [[17:03:42]] For 230 Please invite the people's deputies into the hall. Dear colleagues, we are starting a second reading of the bill (registration number 1357, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine. Report to the head of the profile committee, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, you are aware that Bill 1357 is proposed in second reading, draft law. changes to the Social Speech Act. You see, there's a lot of attention to this bill from both the public and the journalist community. At its meeting on February 11, this year, the committee considered a draft law prepared for the second reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are members of the Committee on Questions. Freedom of speech and information policy. I would like to stress that all the members of our committee signed under this bill, and all the members of the committee have agreed on the amendments that are proposed to you in the second reading. Moreover, these amendments were accepted by the entire working group, which was made up of other members of all desiring factions. So that's the result. During the preparation of the draft draft for consideration in the second reading, the gaps in the creation and operation of the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine have been finalized and removed. Especially in the area of social language security from the possibility of privatization or other alienation of property. This was mainly a claim that was justly heard from this session hall during the first reading of the bill. The table consists of the 71st amendment, of which 31st is counted, 9 is partially counted, 31st is rejected. The bill, adopted on the basis of January 13, some of the national deputies' rights were filed with a violation of the terms, such as the joint rights of the national deputies of Gordjeev, Hlan, Spiowakovsky and Semerak, which does not correspond to articles 1, 116 of the Supreme Council’s regulations. Some of the rights of the national MPs are not included in the text of the bill, which is also contrary to the rules. And from the voice of the proposal in paragraph 3 of paragraph 14 of the bill, namely, part two of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting, to complete the list of DTRCs that need to be redesigned by the national television company "Ukraine". The committee recommends that the bill be approved in the second reading and in general, taking into account the rights approved by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, let's do some repairs. Dear colleagues, we are now looking at a bill on social television in Ukraine. Without Parliament, I have heard hundreds of times that this is a very important bill, an extremely important one. Today, I think it is extremely important. So I'd like to draw your attention to this bill. Dear colleagues, there is a procedure for consideration. There is an offer to consider it as a committee decision. Are there any objections to those who have prepared amendments to this bill? Is it? I see. Then let's do the repairs. Attention, prepare, colleagues. Please, first amendment, Tomenko, do you insist? Tomenko insists on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I want us to be careful because there are no fans of social television here, there are many opponents, including me, that under the auspices of social television, create television and radio companies under the government of Ukraine. In government, I'm against television. I want us to keep and build on the 3rd radio companies (this is my first amendment) social radio talk. I don't understand how the television team of today's First National, who dropped the channel rating to 17th position, even UFO-tv went through the First National, how it will protect Ukrainian culture, radio channel Culture, Change and First Channel Radio. I don't understand how you can do that by making them direct inside television. That's why I insist that there be a legal person on social radio. What's the point of my first amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u49	Please, the head of the Victoria Committee. First amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u50	Yes, the logic of the committee was somewhat different from that of the amendment. The point is that journalists understand very well that we are living in an age of convergence newsroom when there is television separately when there is a radio. But a journalist works both on the radio and on television and on the Internet. And all of this is done at the same time. So it's actually about saving only management staff. And actually this is the extra cost of the budget. Moreover, the bill proposes to reverse the production of state television, which is now under government under the Cabinet of Ministers. And you know that very well. In fact, the Government of Ukraine is now governed by its withdrawal to the Supervisory Council, which will be formed by members and parliamentary factions and groups. So it's actually a very serious step towards depriving the state of monopoly over state television and a step towards social property, to social control over a language that will be owned by the state. And the recommendations of the Council of Europe are not to be divided either.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u51	Are you insisting on this amendment? Huh? I can't see. He insists. Please confirm. I'll bet you an amendment, Tomenko. She was rejected by the committee. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[17:10:40]] For 158. No correction supported. Second amendment, People's Deputy Chapinoga. Is there a need? It doesn't. Third, Dubnevich. It doesn't. Four, Dubnevich. It doesn't. Fifth, Gordyev. It doesn't. Lensky, sixth. Don't insist. Fifth? Please, the fifth amendment, the national deputies of Gordjeev, Hlan, Spiowakovsky, please. Please, National Deputy Gordjeev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, no one's against dispossessing. Today, the Council of Europe requires us to open up our national language today. But it's about our district radio companies, and when we voted in the first reading, I want to remind everyone, my dear colleagues, it's about that we're voting on a bill submitted by the author, Sumar, but with the amendments by Mikola Tomenka in the area of regional television conservation. So it's my amendment that we can foresee in this law the preservation of social, regional television, which could be used to preserve the work of the labour community, to preserve the work of all journalists there, and the state in the individuals of the territorial communities could fully use information services. Unfortunately, my amendments were not the subject of committee discussion, but please, dear colleagues, support, because this was our guarantee of voting, all together, for the first reading. Let's all remember. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, first of all, not the Council of Europe, requires something from us, and we have undertaken such a commitment, and long ago it remains unfulfilled, and this is one of the key obligations we have not fulfilled, in fact, is the first thing. Second thing. Can we leave the TRC going the way they are today? Is this a reform? Absolutely everyone understands that this is a post-Radians example that doesn't have to be done on television. You know that there are more than 400 people working on some of the TRCs today. It's more than, for example, on the 5 channel or on the 112 channel. All professionals say in one voice: This must be reformed. I assure you that according to these rights, this draft law is left behind, but they come out of the control of the local government, they go through reforming the same way, and they will be spoken according to the standards of the social language, taking into account local characteristics. If reform is done, let us do it, not leave 24 small hand companies in the hands of governors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u54	Are you insisting on confirmation? Please bet on confirmation 5 of the amendment. Identify yourself, colleagues. [[17:14:05]] For-88 Not supported. Next, the 6th amendment. Don't insist. Seven, accounted for. 8th Amendment, Gordjeev. Are you insisting? For confirmation, will you comment? National deputy of Gordjeev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the content of decentralization, which we are talking about today, is completely nullified by this approach. Today, the bill proposes to eliminate the area of TRC, to fully transfer the administration to Kiev. And for today, communities will be deprived of their language. So please support this amendment so that we can keep regional television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u56	Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u57	First of all, your amendment has been filed with a violation of the terms, and therefore the committee recommends that it be rejected. That's the first story. The second story is that we've already talked to you. In fact, nothing threatens regional speech. Communal property remains communal. It's only about state property in that part. And communities have and should have the right to create their own channels of speech, and no one forbids it. But what is now in state ownership will be under one legal structure, left a separate television channel with a separate license, but will work according to standards that will be determined by the Supervisory Board, with us assigned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u58	Thank you. Satisfied with the answer, the high-ranking national MPs? Should we put it to a vote? Please put to the vote the amendment of National MP Gordjeev's number 8. Please be sure to support this amendment number 8. [[17:16:29]] For-93 No correction supported. Come on, fellows, let's move. 9th count. 10th count. 11th Amendment. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, before the discussion, I want us to put the dots above the "and" in the history of district television companies. I think if you're looking at sociology, and the experts are looking at it, I don't think you should talk about small towns there and the owls' district television companies. In the last year, a third of the district’s television companies have been placed in five of the most popular canals in places, and they are professional enough to produce quality products. Instead, in the last year, the First National fell from 8th to 17th position as I spoke. So my position is very simple. Local government authorities have the right to create social, regional, radio - speaking television on the basis of district radio companies. It is the right of the local community to have television about Carpathians, not what Kyiv will say about Cherkas or Poltava. So if we, as members of the Supreme Council, trust the deputies of the local councils, we should leave them the right to do so, and three leaders in Kiev will determine whether or not to deploy the channel. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u61	Well, first of all, this amendment does not meet the requirements of Article 1, part of Article 116 of the Rules, because it is not included in the text of a bill adopted as a basis. Oh, that's different. Mikola Volodymyrovich, well, you've been invited to a working group meeting repeatedly, so that you don't talk to three leaders in Kiev. You never showed up. Deputies came from all factions. We have to come and stand up for this position, we have spent more than an hour in the debate. Your colleagues, especially the Lord of Ariev, were, in principle, us. found a common language with all interested deputies who went outside of the committee into the working group and reached a unanimous position there. What three leaders can we talk about now?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to point out that what the head of the committee said is that the amendment does not meet the requirements of part one of article 116 of the Rules means that they were not voted on in the first reading. That's why we won't put them to confirmation and voting. 12 revisions. Same position. Next. 13th count. 14th-- partially counted. 16th is negative. 16 amendments, please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u63	I want to emphasize to both the chairman and our colleagues, if we're going 116, then we'd get 150 votes on the first reading. Because in the first reading, everyone here swore, we had our hand on the Peter Dust Block on the heart, and here in the sessional room, the second reading will address the issue of social telephony. It says here that the Cabinet of Ministers will offer us such an offer in six months. Well, I think in six months, maybe there won't be any land or property left in the district radio companies. So I suggested a clear standard that predicts how to get out of this situation already. The local community decides to finance, preserve the channel, and work according to social television standards. I don't see a problem here at 116. So once again, I think it's fundamentally important to me that if we support the law in this way, in a few months in the center of the area, you won't be able to see any regional television companies or land. That's obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u64	Come on, please. Are you insisting on 16 amendments? The author does not insist. Please 17th, 18th, accounted for. 17th. And also order 116, but this amendment is partly technical in nature. But it is, another part that is rejected, it violates Rule 116. 18th-- partially counted. They don't insist on the 18th. 19th, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u65	This is a matter of oversight. Friends, the second reading that we're looking at right now is a unique norm, and in 10 years I've worked in Parliament for the first time. Here we were told how the Watch Tower would be honest in directing united television and radio. Thus, there is a rule in the law that if a faction delegatees a member of the Supervisory Board, it will become a member of the Supervisory Board only if a positive conclusion is reached by a professional committee. Well, we've never had a profile committee run by a faction and a parliament. So I made it because it was not known that the second reading would vote. But I, another argument I made about what the law was doing under one political power and what I was doing under the government structure, and it has nothing to do with the idea of social television.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u66	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u67	And the government power isn't running the state television company right now? I just want common sense, if only I could drop it. State television is now completely under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Now the head of the State Television and Radio Company can't take a step without the Prime Minister, without government decisions. We authorize Parliament and public organizations to delegate their members at assemblies. What kind of control are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u68	Thank you. Thus, the amendment of the national MP Tomenka is put to the vote. Who believes that this amendment should be introduced into the body of the law, please vote. Please decide how to vote. [[17:23:04]] For 114 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. Next, the 21st National MP, Semerak, rejected. Is it insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u69	No, he's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u70	Not insisting, very good. 22 Amendment, again, of the People’s Deputy Semerak. Is it insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u71	Very good. That's generally positive. 24th People's Deputy Winnick. Does the National MP insist on his amendment? 24 Amendments, Vinick. Don't insist. Next, 25th, the People's Deputy Papiev. Is Papiew’s national deputy insisting? Don't insist. Very good. 26 amendment, National MP Semerak. Does Semimarak insist? Don't insist. The next rejected amendment is the 30th, once again, of the national MP Semerak. He doesn't insist. And the 31st is Semeraka, too, he doesn't insist. 35th People's Deputy Chapinoga. Does he insist? Don't insist. So let's move on. 37th National MP Papiew. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Very good. 38th National Deputy Lensky. Does he insist? No, it's not. Very good. 39th People's Deputy Chapinoga. Don't insist. 40th National MP Semerak. Don't insist. 41st National Deputy Chapinoga. Don't insist. 43rd People's Deputy Chapinoga. Don't insist. 46th National MP Semerak. Don't insist. 47th National MP Winnick. Don't insist. 55th Amendment, People's Deputy Tomenko. Is it insisting? He insists. I'd like to give you a word for Michael Tomenko's speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there were discussions here about what all active people said were working, meeting, discussing and so forth. You ask the national MPs who were in the regional discussions, how the ideologies for creating pseudo-social television were conducted in the regions. The position was that whatever Tomenko said, whatever the experts said, the government would force it, and the coalition would not go anywhere, would vote, because we need the resources to vote, we need opportunities. And we have enough power to ensure that we vote. What is the point of going to a meeting that is defined by the party and the political line? So once again, I want to say that the idea of destroying local radio, which is how it's set up, is wrong. So once again, I ask you to support my amendment to allow local self-governments to create social broadcasting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u74	I don't know how the government can determine something, forbid itself. I think it's in its own way a unique government that has already adopted a decree that allows this law to be implemented, but it has come into conflict with the law that is currently in force. That is, the government is willing to give up this property and its authority, the government of Yatzenuk has taken such a step, has approved it. And as a parliament, we didn't bring this into line with the legislative framework. Similar things continue to be heard. This has no meaning, no one can deny the rights of local communities to establish their own individual languages of local communities. A request to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u76	Discard the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u77	Since the national MP, Mikola Tomenko, insists, I put the vote to the vote. Anyone supporting this amendment to the body of the law, please vote. Please. [[17:27:22]] For the 110. The amendment didn't get the right number of votes, so let's move on. 57 revisions. National deputy of Gordjeev. Is it insisting? Pride insists. Please give me your word for Gordjeev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! I want to address the faction leaders in particular right now. The algorithm set out here in this law regarding delegation of representatives from factions to the Supervisory Board provides for a filter, a filter in the Freedom of Word Committee person. So today it's completely about creating a mechanism that won't allow you to create a result that is even mentioned in the title of this bill. So the honourable colleagues, there's this request: let's send this bill for re-reading, let's gather all the interested persons, all the heads of the factions, and normally work out a normal living bill. It's not "break" right now, it's over the knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u79	Mr. Gordjeev, this bill has been drafted since 1997, until you know, about the knee room. Since 2005, work has been very active in this context, and the pro-European forces have then failed. Now we're trying to drag this process back to undetermined heights because we have local elections because we have the interests of governors. At least I don't care about the interests of the government right now, I care about Ukraine's interests as a European-type state. Because what we have from public speaking and in the same regions is a complete post - Soviet heritage that needs to be gotten rid of. With regard to the Committee's filter. We are ready to make an amendment to take in, this is part five of the article, that the MPs, the groups, are choosing the members of the NCTU Supervisory Board for the positive conclusion of the Supreme Council Committee to the competence of which the issue of television is addressed. I ask from the voice now to vote on the amendment to which this paragraph is deleted so that this additional sieve is not made. I'll tell you why we did it. Because we felt that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u80	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u81	Because we thought that the committee was composed of representatives of all factions who are experts in their field. And in order not to be delegated to the supervisory board of non-professionals, we might be able to draw our own conclusions, but this is a completely unscrupulous position on this sieve, and I suggest that it be removed completely. The findings of the committee and the sieve committee, the factions will appoint members to the Supervisory Board directly. A request for support. Put this amendment to the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you. But we'll follow the rules. First, we will vote on Amendment 57 of Gordjeev. If it doesn't pass, then we'll put to the vote the amendment I'm proposing to the chairman of the committee, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u83	57 we don't support, and we're going to support my vote. It's a recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u84	So since National Deputy Gordjeev insists, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment 57. Whoever supports this amendment, please determine how to vote. [[17:30:58]] For-75 Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now, once again, I will ask the head of the committee to make a very clear amendment that could unite the hall and remove all misunderstandings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u85	I'm asking you to delete the rule on. Part five, that the members of the NCTU Supervisory Board are elected by the fact that there is a positive conclusion by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has jurisdiction over the issue of television broadcasting. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u86	Thank you. I hope that all the deputies have carefully heard the amendment from the committee head. This is an amendment that should unite us and resolve the issues raised in the preceding amendment. And so I'm going to ask the Hall to support the amendment on the committee's head-to-head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u87	Stop, stop, stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u88	The offer she gave. There's a discussion. I'm asking for Irina Heratchenko, to reply for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u89	Colleagues, I can invite anyone who wants to come to the presidency here and just hear what's going on in the hall. It's impossible to do that. Please, a very important law. Let's focus and hear what we're talking about. Don't make any mistakes. I beg your attention, Your Honor! Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, this really applies to all factions. Under this law, factions will be able to delegate their representatives to the Supervisory Board. And between the first and second readings came an amendment to the committee to which the committee set up a filter, allowing or not the factions to give the representative. And now we're discussing whether we should vote for this amendment. We believe that under the Rules, we do not have to vote for this right now, because then this amendment will not go away. But we're asking for a transcript and for everyone to now find out that there can't be such a law that the committee is a faction filter to allow us or not to allow our representatives to be delegated to the Supervisory Board. There can be no such thing in the law. It's just to confirm that it can't be. And we ask all factions to support this is democratic. We delegate professionals, whom we consider to be professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u91	Thank you. So a proposal was made to the head of the committee. I'll ask you again, so that we can vote thoughtfully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u92	Colleagues, therefore, make part of the fifth part of the lineage: Deputies and groups elect members of the NSO’s Supervisory Board. That's it. Members of the NSTU Supervisory Board are elected without a positive conclusion from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of television.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u93	Is everyone aware of this offer? So let's define it by voting. So whoever supports the proposal made by Victoria Sumar, please vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u94	Please be supportive. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u95	There is a common offer of all factions to support this proposal. [[17:34:32]] For 238. [[Applause]] Supported. Colleagues, another is the amendment, and Andrew Volodymyrovich will announce it. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u96	Yes. Please, let the national MPs come in. The last amendment of the People’s Deputy, Semirac. Does he insist? He doesn't insist. And so we've gone through all the points and we can go to the vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u97	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The committee head's closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u98	You know, it's personal stuff, probably, and a lot of people in this room. We've been doing this for over 10 years. We have been journalists for more than 10 years, and they want a speaker to appear in Ukraine who is independent of the oligarchs, because we are talking about their destructive influence here today, both from the state and from the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's take this historic step. And this bill, experts, in particular the European Union of the Council of Europe, call it one of the best in the European Union in particular. Let's do this reform, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u99	Ready to vote? For example, after such a call, I will gladly support this bill and gladly sign it as Head of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the bill (registration No. 1357) is submitted to your vote in the second reading, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on social television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine. In the appropriate version of the amendment committee's decisions, which were taken into account in the second reading and voted by Parliament. Please vote in second reading and in general with the amendments that have just been voted in the room. Please vote and please support this bill. Please vote. [[17:36:51]] For 256 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Please, Peter Poshenko's Block - 85, People's Front - 70, Opposition Block - 18, Self-Help - 18, Radical Party - 16, Parenthood - 16. Rebirth: 9, Will of the People: 6, non-fractional: 18. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, 2300. The MPs turn to work on it. I don't deny it as a developer. And I think they're going to agree with me on a coalition faction, because we need to work on it in a way that makes it quality. And perhaps there is still a need to strengthen the responsibility of the deputies. So I don't object to his transfer to the next plenary week. Is it accepted? We're moving on in the daytime. Dear colleagues, there's still an ostensible bill that's important -- about drugs and we'll look at it a little bit later. Now we're looking at the bill (registration number, registration number 2150), (registration number 2150) in exchange for 2,300 what we voted for. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to ensure timely access of patients to the necessary medical and medical devices by means of public purchases involving specialised purchasing organisations). An important bill, passed by the committee, discussed, questions about availability of medicines, prices of medicines. There is a proposal for the committee to consider it in a simplified procedure, which I now put to the vote on the consideration of the bill under reduced procedure. As for the reduced procedure. [[17:39:02]] For 197 Please, 197. Decision taken. Olga the Mantis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u100	How many minutes? Dear colleagues, I would like to say that today is not just a crucial day because good laws are passed. Today is the birthday of the brilliant Ukrainian poet Lina Kostenko. And I hope you'll give your applause to her today. [[Applause]] Today is the 85th anniversary of the Basilian Line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u101	Mrs. Olga, I'm sorry. One minute, please, or one second. I see here, I just saw through the camera there, 1357 written. I ask you to record this in Parliament's history. The historic decision of Parliament. You don't have to. It's just in the museum of the Ukrainian Parliament. Will you support me? Thank you. I hope that soon we will make a poster about our colleague, Hope Savechenko, and she will be in this room with us, together. Please continue. And the Crimea will be returned as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u102	I actually wanted to go on and say that Lina Vasilovna wrote the wonderful words, "If there's a people, then she's human." In fact, we all remember that we are representatives of the Ukrainian people, and among them are a huge number of patients, and each of us was a patient, each of us will someday be a patient. And you know that the medical mafia is one of the most influential mafias in the Ukrainian state. Law 2150 is the first autumn kilo in the body of a mafia structure. This is the law that will allow public procurement through international organizations — the UN, UNICEF, WHO — for a certain period of time. This law, which I hope you will now vote for, and for which you will not be ashamed in front of all your voters in the major districts when they ask you what the result is this week. So this law, which we have two of them, they go steam, 2150 and 2151, these laws will let you save 348 million dollars, and let you lower the cost of drugs by over 40 percent, imagine a figure. I want to read it out of my voice right now. I ask you to vote in favour of this law as a whole, and I would like to make a sound at the changes that have been made and prepared with the Ministry of Health. The changes are next, please write them under the stenogram. Delete section 1, paragraph 4. In subsections 4 and 6 of paragraph 1 of section 1, the words “defined in part 4 of this article” are replaced by the words “defined in part 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u103	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u104	Please continue for two minutes. It's a technical error. After paragraph 1 of section 1, paragraph 5, add a new sub-item to the following: in part 12 the words "Part 9" and "Part 9" are replaced by the words "Part 11" and "Part 11" respectively. This is necessary because in part 10 of the current edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Medical Act, which will become part of the 12 after making changes, is a reference to part 9 of this article, which will become part 11. In section 1, paragraph 2, after the words “labelling medical devices”, add the words “food for special diet” to the text. In section 1, paragraph 4, after the words "technical regulation and conformity assessment" add the words "food products for special diet consumption" to the text. In paragraphs 2 and 3 of section II, paragraph 2, "Final positions" after the words "medical products" in all variants add the words "food for special, dietary consumption" to the difference. The entire text of the bill should specify the name of the "central executive authority that ensures the formation and implementation of health policy" and bring it into line with the terminology used in this law. That is, in paragraphs 2, 4 of Chapter I, replace the words “the central authority of the executive power of Ukraine, which implements public health policy” with the words “the central authority of the executive authority of Ukraine, which ensures the formation and implementation of public health policy”. In paragraph 9 of section 2 and replace the words "reviewing materials" with "registration materials expertise". And the last. Paragraph three, in the first paragraph of section I, replace the words "International Drug Supply Association, Royal British Agency" with "Global Medical Equipment Mechanisms", "Partnership in Supply and Supply Management" with the words "International.", "Crown Edges," "Global Dear Fassilites", "Partner.", ".management" respectively. This is a linguistic correction. People's deputies are asked to vote on the bill as a basis, as is the law in general, taking into account the rights that I have read. And also entrust the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before preparing an adopted law for signature to carry out its technical and legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u105	Thank you. I take it you read the committee's decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u106	I read what we received from the Ministry of Health so that this law could be put into effect immediately after the adoption so that they could join international organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u107	Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, respecting the work of the Committee and the Ministry of Health, which have proposed extensive amendments to this bill, we still have to say that, given the seriousness of these rights, our faction will be willing to vote solely on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, I have an offer to consider it as a basis, this bill, because those amendments that have just been read, they don't listen and they can violate. No lines. Then the committee's decision, which was agreed upon, is the decision of the committee. Is that a normal position? It was worked and so on. Dear colleagues. Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats. Now we're going to be voting on Bill 2150, in the committee's version of the decision, without considering what just happened from the rostrum. So please. On the basis and in general, according to the committee's decision. No amendments. In the Committee's version. Okay, I'll give you an opportunity to announce this amendment. Please, Tetjana Ostrika's Self-Help. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction certainly supports this bill as socially necessary and important, because we all know how critical the situation today has been for the purchase of drugs that terrible corruption has always been in this area. That's why, of course, we will support it, but we ask, because according to the subject matter of knowledge, changes are made to the Act on Measures to Stabilise the Payment Balance of Ukraine, in accordance with article 12 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. This is a subject of knowledge to the Tax Committee, customs policy. The committee did not consider the matter. And we can't say right now what kind of medical supplies, medical products and food, and something else, and something else is being released from the extra import moment. Therefore, we insist that the amendments to this law be excluded from the text of Law 2150. And if we consider this amendment, we're ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u111	All right, here's the deal. Please take your seats. Please take your seats in the voting room, colleagues. An important bill. And now we're going to vote on it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the decisions of the Committee and the amendment of the Ostrikov People's Chamber. Just an amendment, taking into account only the amendment of the Ostrikov People's Deputy. The correction that was made from the rostrum of the people’s Deputy Mantis is out of the question. It doesn't count, all right? Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please, according to my proposal, 2150, on the basis and overall, of the committee's decision. Option and decision of the committee with regard to the bill announced by the Ostrikak People's Deputy from Self-Help. I understand that this is a common position, so look, the head of the committee behind you is saying yes, you're saying no. Try a colleague, please, Roman. We vote on the basis and in general. We vote on the basis and in general, taking into account Ostriki's amendment and in favour of the committee's decision. [[17:50:15.]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Let's move on. Bill (Registration No. 2382) on specific legal aspects of improving Ukraine's position in the Doing Business rating. First Deputy Minister Sewastianov, co-reporter, head of the Ivanchuk Committee, reports. There is a proposal to vote on it. consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. As regards the consideration of the reduced voting procedure. [[17:50:58]] For 184 Please, Natalia Ilarianovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has developed a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts on specific legal aspects of improving Ukraine's position in the "Din Business" rating. Let me remind you that Ukraine is now 96th in 189 countries in the dune business rating. After this bill, we're going to be 81 next year. Each template in this rating is 650 million investments in the country. Experts have estimated that by 2020 we will have created more than 50,000 jobs. With regard to the changes that are being proposed. In particular, the project proposes an effective mechanism for protecting creditors' rights, which is to provide web access to the individual creditor to information about the defaulting debtor, to extend creditors' rights in the process of exercising the right to non-payment, to improve the regulatory and legal regulation of the target loan, which is entitled to receive the defaulting debtor. For the purpose of optimizing the enforcement of court decisions by the State executive authorities, it is proposed that copies of the decrees of the State’s executioner be sent by mail, and that the execution periods be reduced. The law also proposes to introduce an orderly form of the economic process to shorten the terms that meet the international principles of fair and effective justice. Today's committee decision supports a position to vote for this project as a basis. Please support us, it is very important that we accept it by May 1st this year in order to improve our position next year. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u113	Please, Alexandra Kugel. Then Oxana Prodan, then head of the Ivanchuk Committee. Let's go, Ivanchuk. Andrew Volodymyrovich, let's act as a co-reporter, on the rostrum. Then Alexander Kugel and then Oxana Prodan. Then Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u114	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered this bill, Governmental Bill 2,382 at its meeting and recommends that Parliament adopt it in the first reading and on the basis of it. The bill is made up of 4 main blocks, and the MPs have several comments that they would like to be taken into account in the drafting phase of the bill for the second reading. But in view of the fact that we have a grandfather-line on May 1st, after the adoption of the bill in the first reading, I ask you to ask about the shortened procedure for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u115	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I must hope that you will remember that when the government passed Bill 1580, I first asked to return it to work. After that, the committee headed by Mr. Halasyuk and I worked for a month to make any coefficient of useful action out of it, as they say. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics has learned nothing like that. It's a very nice phrase, "Enhancement for Business." Read what the law is about. And read the conclusions made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And so make up your mind, because if we take him to the first reading, we will work with you to make sure that we do not feel ashamed to look into the eyes of the business. And second. Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to ask. How the laws are distributed that the first law on deregulation, and all decisions on licensing we make through our committee, and this bill, understanding how difficult it was for the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Justice to work with us to bring unpleasant schemes through our committee, is registered for the second time on the committee of Ivanchuk. I'd like there to be some sort of consistency and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u117	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u118	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask that you pay attention to two things about this bill. First of all, the title of this bill is completely not in keeping with its essence. This bill should have been called "optimization of the work of the Ukrainian executive service." Everything in this bill, everything. In general, the main point of this project is to simplify the work of the performers, allowing the Master Court to collect from anyone up to 200 minimum wages without his presence and without his knowledge. Here I found only one positive, maybe there's another one, but it's so small, it's about Doing Bisness, it's about empowering the authorities of local self-government, it's about providing information from the State Register. Everything else is a court order in the household service, it's the work of the State Service, it's the registration of goods rights and their burdens. So I very much ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, to put to the vote the proposal to return the author to the draft of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u119	People's MP Rybak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the First Deputy Minister of Justice. Mrs. Natalie, today you reported Bill 2381, and there were things like that, and you said that we were 96, but when Bill 2381 was passed, we'd already be 13th. Now we're back to 96, but when we adopt this bill, we're going to be 85. So when you prepare for reports, at least reconcile these things, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u121	Thank you. People's Deputy Masorin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u122	I didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u123	Katzer-Buchowska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u124	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I very much ask you to pay attention and this bill 2382 on improving Ukraine's Doing Business rating. The bill contains a number of very progressive things regarding bankruptcy and enforcement. Nevertheless, the government's decision and the government's bill will allow Ukraine to rise to 17 points in the Doing Business rating because it makes bankruptcy more open. Let me give you an example. The first example is that a government executive is obliged in bankruptcy to publish the debtor’s status on a special site. This has not happened before, and this is a very important thing in this bill. The bill also simplifies the conduct of executive action. The bill also provides for targeted loans to be received by the borrower in the bankruptcy procedure, namely to improve the financial situation. Here. And it also expands creditors' rights in the bankruptcy process, and especially with regard to the acceptance of large agreements in the bankruptcy procedure. I think that this bill is progressive, of course it needs further work, but it can be done in the second reading. But this bill will allow one important step to improve the economic situation, change and help change the social situation, and help create new jobs in Ukraine. Thank you. Please support this government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u125	Thank you. People's Deputy Ptašnik, Self-Help, then Levchenko Yuri, then the People's Deputy, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, we fully support what our colleagues from Fatherland have said and the faction of Peter Prashenko. The bill actually has nothing to do with its contents. Unfortunately, too many procedural standards are involved in this bill. I'll remind you that we recently voted whether or not we voted in favour of dragging certain corporate disputes into the hands of local courts. The bill is now being proposed to the domestic courts to establish a procedure for orderly conduct. I would like to point out to you that punishment is an unquestionable procedure. This means that if the prosecutor does not have a dispute, he may appeal to the court to obtain a court order and to go in an undeniable manner, to get what he wants accordingly. What he wants. It's about that rating. I want to say, and please, let's focus on concrete reforms, on concrete changes, not on higher ratings. If we're okay, if we're working hard, then we'll be fine with the ratings. And so I would also like to point out that when the bill is more concerned with procedural legislation, I very much ask the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to look at it the same way and to give my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u127	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, then the Opposition Block, then Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u128	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. This bill is called Doing Busines, right? Doing Busines from English is translated as how to do business. So in order for entrepreneurs to be able to do business properly, the government has to do two things, not empty projects, but basically do two things: first of all, not steal, second of all, not take bribes. These are two things. And then it'll be okay to do all the business. In this context, we heard yesterday, after over 7 and a half billion dollars in NAC Naftogazi, Crushing, in Energoatom, we heard that Ukratelekom is not returning to state property, even though there is every possibility of bringing it back to state property now after Ahmetov stole it. I'd still like to speak to the chairman right now, and yet I'd like to hear about whether tomorrow we'll have the Attorney General in the session room to report on this, as we requested yesterday? It's very important. That the issues raised throughout the country by bribery in the current government were properly investigated by the Attorney General. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u129	Thank you. I'll inform you yesterday, I sent an official letter to the Attorney General of Ukraine. I don't have an answer right now. I ask the apparatus to find out the answer to the letter I signed yesterday and to inform the People’s Deputy Levchenk. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens! What the bill refers to in the first place. The bill is of course a beautiful name, but as previous rapporteurs have said, it has nothing to do with improving business. Moreover, the bill further exacerbates the situation of business actors who wish to initiate different types of litigation in the course of economic proceedings. In fact, this may be one of the options for raiding enterprises that, by obtaining an order without calling the other party to obtain the necessary judicial decision. And as for Ukraine's rise in the Doing Business rating, which we're talking about -- we have a devaluation of the bracelet, we have a drop in GDP, we have a unemployment rate. What rating are we talking about? We just need to reshape power and not make populist decisions and make decisions that are currently taking place. There won't be any ratings here. The rating is that all investors in Ukraine have already left. We need to tell the truth in the hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u131	Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, using my right to continue the session for 15 minutes, we have to consider this issue and another decision is very important. So I would ask all the Ukrainian national deputies to come to the Supreme Council Hall right now and we'll be working with you for 15 minutes. Please Kuprienko Oleg, Radical Party, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u132	The Radical Party of Oleg Láška, Kuprienko Oleg, Chernigu. Dear Society, in order to discuss such bills, even if they were to be read, the name is not really the right thing to do. If this bill raises our ratings out there. Say, at least he's called a cow to give milk. We need to support this bill. It removes many of the shortcomings in current legislation. It enables decent entrepreneurs to effectively collect money from disorderly entrepreneurs. It simplifies this procedure by order. And I'm paying attention, it's suggested that we take it in the first reading. It is quite large. To make changes, we need to read. I urge everyone to support this bill. Vote for him. He's needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u133	Thank you. Please, the closing word is the first deputy minister, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u134	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, this bill has been developed for business, along with Easy Business, which has offered us these changes, it's complex. As far as rating is concerned, it's formed from complex indicators. This is a business registration, from 76 to 12th place, from property registration, from 59th to 35th. And then the comprehensive indicator is from 96 to 81, for the country. This is very important for the involvement of investors in the future. Let's support the first reading, work it out. If you don't like commandeering, let's exclude it from second reading, let's leave other criteria that are very important to executive leadership for the debtor's inability to pay. Please give your support as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-19-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't want this initiative to be supported by the Supreme Council right now, because Self-Help won't support, Parenthood won't support, Opposition Block, I understand, the same position. There are different thoughts in the "Peter Prashenko" faction and other deputies. So I have the next suggestion that we don't lose this bill -- send it for work and for the first meeting -- we'll take it out in the first week of plenary and agree on it. If. I would ask the Ministry, please, jointly: Oksana Prodan, Alexander Kugel, People's Deputy Ptašnik, to work on this question so that we can find a consolidated solution and vote it out, on the basis and in general. Colleagues, there's an offer to send the developer over for work. Please, Your Honor, take your seats so we don't fail the law. And we'll vote it peacefully in two weeks. Please take your seats, colleagues. There is a proposal to send the bill registration number 2382 for further processing. Please vote, and please support this proposal, Your Honorable Fellow National MPs. Please support: for further work. [[18:08:21]] For 235 Thank you, Your Honor. And the final decision. I think we can take it without talking. Question 2337. Listen carefully to the name. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances in which the state funds were stolen during the provision of services for the collection of hazardous wastes of hexachlorobenzene in the Kalu district of Johno-Frankiv region in 2011-2014. Please, colleagues, stay, please. Don't leave. Designed by national deputy Drevijanko and Matvienko Anatoli Sergiyovich I understand the faction's position is to support it. This was a question that was being discussed -- the creation of such a TSC. I can see just from. That's why 2337 is the basis and the whole. Proposal for a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please 2337 on the basis and in general, please support. 2337, please. [[18:09:30]] For 236 Thank you, colleagues. And to the end. There's one word I have to say that the sitting, well, I have to announce, you know, but I'm not going to do that right now, one minute of your attention. I want to ask you. All faction leaders. Attention, colleagues! Give me two minutes of silence. One minute. One minute of silence, please. People's MP Moseschuk. One minute, one minute. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you. Faction leaders, committee leaders will use tomorrow afternoon and next week to draft quality drafts for the next plenary week. I would very much like Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday to work without blocking the rostrum and challenging what is not being prepared. This is true of the government. This is true of the government, colleagues. This is about working with committee deputies and finding the right solutions to support the hall. So I very much ask you to organize this work properly. I'll be grateful. And the machine will do anything to make this work work. Thank you for your attention. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed.
