ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your jobs. We can start the first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council this year. So I would ask all the factions to invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can start our work together. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Faction leaders, I ask to invite deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and concentrate on your work. Faction leaders, please invite your deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, we must register. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the hall. Please, dear fellows. 347 National Deputies in the Hall Dear colleagues, before we begin our work, I would like to welcome our colleagues on a traditional birthday. All right, everybody! Today it is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Maksim Yuriovich Burbak. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And so did Dmitri Evgenovich Dobrodomov. Let's say hello to our birthday. [[Applause]] Dear national MPs, dear colleagues, we wish the nominees all right, the holidays are over, and we're starting work with you in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board, where we considered important issues and formed a schedule for this sessional week. Those questions that will be considered in the hall are of great importance. And it is clear that we need to systematically organize Parliament's work both at this session and at the next in order to make quality decisions, not just the number of laws. And each law must regulate a certain area of life clearly, accessible to everyone. I'd like to draw our attention today to the tragedy of the world as a whole, and I'd like to say what's going on with our colleague Nadia Savchenko today. Today's the 32nd day is the honorary colleagues! On the 32nd day, our colleague is starving in the name of justice, in the name of Ukraine. And our position, our duty, is to do everything to get our colleague released. And today we will consider another appeal to the world’s European leaders to give us support on this not easy path. I am convinced that all political prisoners outside our country must be released. And this is the position of every national MP, this is the position of every Ukrainian. Therefore, this question requires unity and principle that we should demonstrate. You know that the President of Ukraine is taking steps to free Nadia Savchenko and our captives. And we have some progress on this issue, but there are still many problems around us that we need to unite in order to free them. That's why I want us to have a successful job. We work without vacations. I am convinced that we will make all the decisions that are necessary with regard to the Savichenko Hope and we will work as hard as we need. I would like to emphasise that the conclusion of this session will take place on the first day of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before that, dear colleagues, I'll make some announcements, and then we'll move on to the factions and groups, according to the Rules. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For National Patriotic Education" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Artushenko Igor Andriyovich was elected head of the association. Next announcement. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the eighth vocation has been created by the interfractional parliamentary association "Procurement of the Rights of the Child". Feldman Alexander Borisovich was elected leader of this association. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups. I'd like to ask people's deputies, faction leaders and groups to sign up. Please log in from factions and groups. Please, National Deputy Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, Self-Help. Please. Please, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u2	Congratulations, fellow Members. We're starting a hard and full-time week. I want to share such a brief sensation about previous encounters with Mr. Goodyak, who spoke of the world-viewed position of the Ukrainian people, and our worldview was based on the Borisoglybian ideology, the Borisoglybian ideology of dying. And today in our country, two major problems are not peaceable; they are war and corruption. And we can overcome these two things only if we are clearly aware of what we should do today, tomorrow, and in a year. Our plans are now in the state budget of Ukraine. And the faction of the self-help political party insists that the power structures be counted before us as legitimate representatives of the Ukrainian people, what they plan to do with the funds that are set in this government budget. We demand that, on the day of the Government, the Defense Minister, the representatives of the other forces, clearly determine where this money will be spent, what plan these powerful structures have to achieve victory. And then we will certainly remember our peacemaking, what we have to do with other areas, what we plan to do in the cultural realm, what we plan to do with our parliament, when the advantage of cheap ski trips and cold tea, cold coffee, predominates the desire to save the state. I insist that we deal with the affairs of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u3	Please, Economic Development, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u4	Give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u5	National MP Nichiporenko, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows, welcome to the last festivals! You know the last time in this room we were meeting when we were looking at the budget, unfortunately not all of us were able to make that statement. Of course, the budget was needed, it was needed! I'm not going to now announce and criticize how he accepted -- not on this issue -- it was necessary and it was absolutely necessary. There is a coalition in Parliament today, and it is also absolutely right for it to work. We need to realize that the coalition has assumed political responsibility for the country, but each of the deputies in this room is also responsible to Ukraine, whether it is part of a coalition or not. I'm not going to tell you what the budget claims are, but I would like to point out that the country really needs reforms. Regrettably, this budget has only a hint of reform in some cases. That's a very good idea: getting the wages out of the shadows. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. This is where I see some direction towards reform. But I wonder who counted it. Let's still be pragmatic. In any case, a person or an enterprise counts whether he is motivated or not motivated. If I'm doing a simple calculation, one way or another, one is carrying a financial burden at a minimum wage of 1 thousand and 200 dollars, it's already had a financial burden of 699 dollars. It's with all the taxes. In order to raise a person's salary today, let's say, 4,800, as required, the financial burden will be 1 000 700. Still, it's a good idea, but it had to be calculated in a way that worked, and that's got to be financial motivation. Next, that is, there should be other requirements and other financial accounts. It's not a bad idea. I want to give you an example. So what I'm saying is, I need a budget. But he had to be looked at properly. There's a question for an electronic declaration. We're talking about the energy independence of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, what coal of South Africa are we talking about if, today, in Ukraine, the South Danube mine, which can extract one and a half million coals a year, has no legal address? This mine is located in an area controlled by Ukraine. It does not have a legal address to which it cannot conclude a contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u7	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u8	I can read five more mines that can extract 4 million tons of coal that can't. which are located in the liberated territory of Ukraine, which cannot supply coal in relation to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, People's Front, High Sergey Vitaliovich. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u10	Pasha's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u11	Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Dear viewers! I would like to congratulate all of Christ’s Christmas, which symbolizes the triumph of light and good in all the world. Unfortunately, though, we can note that during the Christmas holidays, terrorists and Russian troops in the territory of Donbass have virtually rejected all truce arrangements and the situation has deteriorated considerably over the past week. For the first time, we can say that the grouping of the Russian Federation armed forces and terrorists exceeds the number of groups of the Ukrainian armed forces. And unfortunately, with that challenge, we're all going to have to count. This week, the President of Ukraine will be introducing extremely important bill on mobilization, extremely important drafts on Nazgwardia, and I'm just calling on the entire MP Corps that we should immediately consider, accept and get a tool to protect our nation. I would like to point out and thank everyone in this room that on the eve of the year, we made a difficult but responsible decision and adopted a defense budget for our country. For the first time in history, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a budget that actually fully meets all the demands of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other law enforcement agencies. And this is a very responsible thing that we've taken on. Despite the financial collapse, regardless of the loss of territory, despite the loss of 20 percent of our economic potential, we have allocated funds. And we owe it to you to get this tool in hand, to create a real combat army, to create a real effective system of our collective security, and to meet all the challenges we face. I have a strong belief that we will win, but this will only be won if we as a nation, as a nation, are the only ones in terms of the dangers of intervention and the only ones in terms of the priorities of our nation. I would also like to point out that in the mobilization laws that will be adopted, which are so disturbing to society, our faction will initiate that all, without exception, including the national MPs, should not have weapons of mobilization.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u13	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u14	They must also protect their nation with their weapons in their hands. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u15	Heroic glory! Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u16	Christ was born! I want to welcome the whole country, all of our colleagues with a bright holiday. And I want these days to remember our heroes who are protecting our country on the fronts that are giving our lives, our health in order to have the opportunity to live in peace, to build our country, and to win this difficult war that has been imposed on us. I am convinced that the Supreme Council, as we have suggested, must join on the basis of a special parliamentary commission to verify the conditions under which the state is obliged to fight our heroes on the Ukrainian fronts. I believe in victory, and I believe that everything will be all right, because on our side the power, the truth, means the Lord. But at the same time, our fighters, our heroes, who were protecting Ukraine, including our Hope Savchenko, who is a national deputy, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, are also behind the Russian Federation. It is now starving for 32 days, starving for Ukraine, not for itself, starving to draw the world’s attention to the destruction of stability in Ukraine today, the killing of peaceful people, the practical wage of war against us. It pays attention to the world as a whole by practically sacrificing his health and life. I can tell you that for 32 days of hunger, a person’s systemic health problems begin, and the human body no longer endures this, it is at the limit of life. And that's why I would like today to perhaps accept, firstly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has all the instruments of influence on Putin's regime; secondly, that we turn to the leaders of that Normandy group, the Normandy format, who now assumes responsibility for negotiating peace in Ukraine. I ask that when these questions are put into order today, it is necessary to vote. But we can't stop talking today about Ukraine's budget, which was adopted at the end of the year, already received by all the local councils and now they're in shock. I'd like the Supreme Council, and first of all, the Parenthood Party, to build the right communication with the heads of rural, rural, urban councils so that we can give them the opportunity to make our proposals to the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u17	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u18	and the Law on the Law. and the Budget Code. My dears, we can't leave the local self-governance authorities today with practically no money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Give me 10 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u20	And that's why I'm calling on all the profile committees to draw attention to this: local budgets cannot be approved without your help. I think this is our responsibility, and we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u22	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Congratulations on 2015, with Christmas Christ! Give you God’s health, your family’s well - being, and I hope that in the new year 2015, especially in power, the Supreme Council, the President, the government will finally realize the Ukrainian people’s dream of having a decent government. I hope that we will finally live to see the time when there will be no thieves in Parliament, when there will be no manuals in Parliament for the unbeatable Yanukovic gang. I hope that Parliament will finally adopt laws that will allow and protect. Who's yelling?? Give him the Corvallo. I screamed from a thief's block there alone. That Parliament will finally adopt laws that await humans, not oligarchs. One of the laws that awaits the entire Ukrainian society is the changes to the Constitution in the elimination of parliamentary immunity. People are good! Respectable citizens! There are many deserving people in Parliament, but some of them came here to pay a large sum of money. You think they're stupid to pay money? No, not stupid. They pay money because they go here to parliament with one goal: one for the touch, the other for the lobbying of their own interests. We've got to cover this trough, we've got to get rid of this feed, we've got to get rid of the parliamentary immunity. And that's why the Radical Party faction is addressing coalition colleagues, all the Supreme Council deputies, this week's last plenary week of today's current session. If we want to eliminate parliamentary immunity this year, we have this decision to vote this week on our first reading. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to support us and to vote on this decision. Because before the election, everyone's going to promise to take off the inviolability. Yes, Ruslan, isn't it? He promised the deputies. voters before the election? Vote, don't hold on to that touchiness like a lice behind a fur coat. Why did people send you here? To protect them, not yourself, not your own business. And that's why we think it's a key question. It's not an issue of inviolability, it's a question of caste in Ukrainian society. Enough caste and quite a few special people who cover up their disgraceful affairs with parliamentary inviolability. Well, the important question that my colleague Pashinsky was talking about is the situation on the front. Unfortunately, she's been getting a little rough lately. And this shows all the lies of the Kremlin that tell us that it wants peace, and today they are killing our Ukrainian citizens, peaceful people, and military personnel. And so Parliament has no right to go on any holiday while there is a war in the country. We have to protect our own country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u23	People's Will Group, Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u24	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a special responsibility for never having to talk about Ukraine in the past, because the threats and challenges facing Ukraine are enormous. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has traditionally made a historic development with the adoption of the state budget. There was even a theory of mutual misappropriation when the budget was adopted. But in these circumstances, the key question is not how the budget was received, but the question is what was accepted and what was accepted. Now we have a unique phenomenon with the adoption of the 2015 budget. 233 national deputies delegated to the government the right to draw the budget and the corresponding laws. Not under humans, of course, not under the country. The members of the People's Will group are strongly protesting in this regard. You can't keep doing this. People are practically crushed, without any explanation as to how to survive a personal person: a teacher, a doctor, a pensioner. True, the government is now taking on an explanatory work. Members of our group and, I'm sure, all major MPs will be happy to help ministers organize meetings with people to tell them what they've done, and how the country will continue to develop, especially in the Chernobyl regions. Today's power, just like before, thinks it determines time -- it's a great illusion, it just lives at this time. The binding of a model of a state organization, state life, is not like democracy, but rather like a carnage. People try to suck out their last juices like worms. Such reforms are unacceptable. If such insensitiveness to human problems continues to be demonstrated, there will be trouble for Ukraine. We're against criticizing air. We are working together and for a common result for the people and for the country, but on one condition, honourable colleagues: to stop the harassment of MPs in the Supreme Council, to stop the division of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the right and wrong, we do not know what will happen tomorrow, including for voting for this shameful budget. This is no longer the case when 300 deputies have allocated 180 seats on parliamentary committees. In some committees, no one works, one by one, two by one. Everyone writes only resolutions, works for no one. The People's Will Group is calling for a serious dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u25	Give me 10 seconds to finish. Are we done here? Thank you. Please, National Deputy Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Opposition Block. Get Tomenko ready, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national MPs, from the beginning of the 2015 budget process, the political party "The Opposition Block" has taken a clear and consistent position on the draft budget, which we believe was written under a copy of the International Monetary Fund programme. And we immediately said that the adoption of this budget was a tragic mistake that would lead to a significant deterioration in the lives of all people. In fact, the situation is extremely serious in what was said yesterday by the ruling coalition, we have heard voices that the budget is antisocial and budget adopted with numerous breaches of the Rules and Legislation. But that's not even the point. The main thing is that local budgets are waiting for us as soon as possible. We have a lot of information from cities about how local budgets are being adopted today and how people don't even know how to take them, and how to measure cities. If it's called the decentralization phase, we're definitely against it. Because the full responsibility for social benefits today rests on local budgets, and the sources of fulfillment, the reliable sources of these budgets are no longer available today according to the cost and the new conditions. Therefore, the budget will have to be reviewed because the country with this resource simply will not survive. The second question I want to raise is the situation in Donbas. According to all sociological surveys, the vast majority of our country’s citizens are in favor of keeping Donbas in Ukraine. All these citizens are our voters, the voters of this House. Parliament must therefore respond to this call, and Parliament must create such a legislative base that will both tactically and strategically return the part of Donbas to Ukraine. So our party is proposing and initiating the creation of a separate committee on Donbas, which will work in Parliament to work on laws and represent it. in the sessional council for their approval, to return part of Donbas to the composition of Ukraine at the legislative level. I ask Parliament to support our initiative. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u27	Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u28	Christ was born, let us praise him! Friends, I am pleased that both the national MPs and the government have returned to Ukraine, have returned in a direct and figurative sense to the words, because I have heard a world discussion for a week about how the Prime Minister has interpreted Europe's new history. This is interesting, it raises the status of Ukraine and the status of the government, but I would like the prime minister to be actively concerned with Ukrainian history, Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian workers, Ukrainian education and Ukrainian medicine. I would also like to see that MPs who worked with the voters for exactly two weeks began to travel more actively to their constituencies and to meet people. Because it was a shock to me when the minister of economy seemed to say that they couldn't print 10 supplements for 15 days because they were Christmas holidays. You're the one who raped the 30 of us the night that the country dies and Putin conquers us, and the local council won't gather to print 10 supplements for 15 days?Oh, my God! So our faction offers the next responsible week of work. On Wednesday, we're listening to the head of the National Bank -- this is a historic meeting, I hope we'll finally see it, and we'll listen together and understand how the national currency works. We don't get it. We'll make personnel decisions. On Friday, we listen to the Prime Minister and ministers of finance and economics about how this budget will work. I urge the ministers to go out and explain to my fellow professors and students how 75 percent of the scholarship is awarded, but you have not accepted the explanation. Explain to the colleges how they will work, explain to the Ministry of Health how to feed people in hospitals? And just as we approved by February 15, the government to prepare all the changes that we have to adopt on February 17th. Only then will it be an adequate and right decision. On Friday we listen to the muscle. And an extremely painful subject. On Friday, I think we need a very clear explanation of how troops work, how mobilization is prepared, why there should be priority for professionals, people who are willing to protect the country, who can protect the country, and who are willing to do so. So the week of responsible and serious work is waiting for us, the block of Peter Dustenka is looking forward to this, and recalling the recent 80th anniversary celebration of Basil Simonck's birth, I urge once again the politicians and, above all, the government to talk to people and Ukraine. For as Basil Simonenko said, "For the sake of you, they have pearled you in the soul, and for the sake of you, I have thought and made, let America and Russia keep silent when I speak to you." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u29	Heroic glory! Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We are now moving on to the agenda and we will be discussing with you the extremely important laws of Ukraine, particularly, I think that no one in Ukraine has any doubt about the need for judicial reform. Everything needs to be done to ensure that our judiciary in Ukraine is effective, accessible, and responsible. For people in Ukrainian courts to find protection and support, support for their legitimate rights, since this is a fundamental value for the entire civilized world and, in particular, for Ukraine. In connection with this President of Ukraine, a bill was introduced to the Supreme Council, which has the title of the bill on the right to a fair trial. In addition, several other bills have been introduced that are in the order of the day of various national deputies, which also have a bearing on changes in the judicial system. And I now propose that we all follow through on these bills today and discuss it. I would like to point out that these are just the first readings and that they have done a thorough work on the preparation of these bills, for a second reading, taking into account the thinking of experts, the expert environment, the people's deputies, because this is extremely important. What suggestions will be made regarding the beginning of this consideration? I mean, the procedure, the head of the profile committee, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, considering that yesterday the Conciliation Council made a decision: all related bills, even if they are not alternatives, relate to a single area of regulation, namely judicial reform, to be considered today. And we see them in the day-to-day order, we see that they are united by such a black line that means we should look at them together -- it would be wise (I, on behalf of the committee, present such a proposal) to the next rule on these issues. To allow us to express ourselves to all the authors — the right of legislative initiative. Rules are set, Mr. Head, you, and the session room, I think two or three minutes will be enough for us to hear. It's about five laws, that's enough for me. Then, if you don't mind, there's going to be a single statement from the committee, because the committee can make a generalizing decision about everyone, and then from each faction, you could propose statements from factions and non-fractional deputies within 2-3 minutes, as defined by the session room. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u31	Please let me finish my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u32	Of course, it may not be a complete procedure, but it's enough for -- somewhere within an hour and a half -- for us to have a thorough discussion of these issues through the first-reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u33	Thank you. I think we should go along with this proposal: the rapporteurs give up three minutes, then three minutes to the committee, as well as statements from the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] In two minutes. From factions? Within two minutes of the factions, I'll give some of the non-fractionals a minute. Three minutes from the factions? Okay, then: the reporter, the committee, the factions, three minutes, and I'll give two non-fractionals one minute at a time. And on that. And the question to the reporters, well, let's cut it out. It's not in the first reading, yes, it's right. Okay. Yeah, short-term, no questions asked, but we'll talk about it. And what I'm stressing is that this is the first reading. Dear colleagues, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now, as I have announced: three minutes each and every minute is non-fractional. Please vote, Your Honor, on this procedure. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:44:01]] For 256 256, but we need 150 votes for that decision. Decision taken. Let's go in order and then we'll vote the same way. Please, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration, Alexei Filatov, Rapporteur on the bill (registration number 1656, draft law on ensuring the right to a fair trial, introduced by the President of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u34	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! You all know the situation in the judicial system, I will not waste your time describing the many problems that citizens face. It's both corruption, it's non-professionalism, it's ineffective justice, it's political influence, it's failure to execute court decisions. We all realize that without solving these problems, further effective and political and economic development of the state is impossible. Ukraine needs a judicial system in which every citizen will be able to obtain a legal and just judgement within a reasonable time frame. The bill introduced by the President is the first step towards such a system. The main changes proposed by this bill. First of all, these are the new rules for the election and career of the judge. The procedure for the selection of judges has been made as transparent as possible, raising professional requirements for candidates for judicial office. The judge’s career will depend solely on his professional growth. Judges are assigned to a position in a court of law, unlike the situation that exists today, only on the basis of a competition. The competition is conducted by the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Courts. No state authority, including the President, and the Supreme Council, has the right to intervene in the competition and to exercise the right to appoint a judge to a certain level or to a particular region only by a decision taken by the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. All judges in Ukraine must undergo mandatory certification. The certification will take place in stages, starting with the judges of the Supreme Court. The other one. The disciplinary responsibility of judges is strengthened. The reason for disciplinary responsibility is expanded and clarified in such a way that, on the one hand, disciplining a judge, on the other hand, does not make the institution of disciplinary responsibility a means of dealing with unfair judges. The list of types of disciplinary sanctions against judges is expanding. Now there's only two kinds of disciplinary sanctions, that's catch-up and release. Seven types of disciplinary sanctions are introduced, including the transfer to another court, the decline in the qualification class, and so on. Third. It's a reduction in the political impact on judges through the prohibition of reconciling the posts of the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualificational Commission of Judges from any other activity, other than scientific, creative and pedagogical. As well as a transparent procedure for selecting the Higher Qualifications Commission and the High Council of Justice, due to the early registration of candidates, the possibility of discussing their candidates with the public. Including all entities that will appoint members of the WCC and the WCC, including the President, will hold an open competition. Four. It's the openness and transparency of court proceedings, the unimpeded access of any citizen to any court hearing, the making of all court decisions to the open register of court decisions. Fifth. This is the restoration of the powers of the Supreme Court and the improvement of its activities through the removal of procedural obstacles to the prosecution of decisions before the Supreme Court and the establishment of mechanisms to ensure the uniformity of judicial practice through the Supreme Court. I think we all understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u35	Alexei Valeriyovich, how long do you need to finish? Please let me finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u36	Real steps must be taken to bring about judicial reform. And this must be done urgently, otherwise the disease of the judicial system from the chronic state will be incurable. So please support this law in the first reading. Of course, any bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u38	Any bill can get some comments, suggestions. And these comments and suggestions will necessarily be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Please, the next reporter, Sergey Sobolev, registration number of Bill 1361. Yes, Sergey Sobolev, please. Then prepare Oksana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The bill that we're about to consider is actually a return to the question that was being considered in this sessionary hall under the authority of a famous person who advised Mr. Janukovic how to reform the court. This person, who is actually in Moscow right now, but unfortunately, when our faction and I think you've all analyzed the bills that have been introduced, this person's case is still alive and unfortunately, in individual bills he's winning. I mean our former colleague Portnov. And that's why the copyright team commissioned me to present a bill that restores all the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the powers that have been unlawfully removed from it, the powers that contradict the spirit of judicial reform itself. And in fact, our bill provides an opportunity to deal with all cases taking into account the positions of the Supreme Court, which is in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This applies not only to cases that have been dealt with in international courts but should continue to be implemented in Ukrainian legislation, this applies to virtually all cases where the same rules of material law are applied in higher courts in contravention of the country's basic law. That's why the proposal in our bill is to put the Supreme Court as a key institution in decisions directly related to judicial matters, and, I think, this allows us to resolve this issue once and for all. The second question is no less important. This is actually a question: how do we continue to define cassation as a key argument in court decisions? In fact, our bill allows for a clear set of degrees. Question three. Whether there should be further clarification of the plenary of the Supreme Courts. In our view, this should be and, taking all these factors into account, we, as the authors of this bill, propose if (and we understand this is the coalition's decision) we support the presidential bill, and the parliamentary bill, where the authors are representatives of all factions, including our faction "The Fatherland." So we, as the authors of this bill, are revoking our law and making proposals on this law into the two bills that will be voted in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u41	Thank you. 1361 we're him. Please, Siroid Oksana Ivanovna, draft law (registration number 1497).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you today a bill that contains a comprehensive approach to judicial reform. In fact, judicial reform should be the end of the dignity revolution, because only the restoration of a fair trial would guarantee people their dignity, the protection of personal freedom and the protection of property. We understand that we need to demonstrate harmony in society in the middle of Parliament itself, and in general between the branches of power in the approach to judicial reform. We are also fully aware that the main things that need to be implemented in the context of judicial reform are reflected in the coalition agreement. That's why the bill is prepared, which. Bill No. 1497 is prepared for civil society participation, with the participation of representatives of the judiciary and taking into account all European standards, in particular the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which have already been submitted repeatedly to Ukrainian Bills. What is important that is different in this bill, compared with today’s situation? First of all, it's a cleansing of the judicial system, it's a strengthening of the basic responsibility of the judges. Second what? This is the introduction of electronic judicial mechanisms. The third is the establishment of a status that will not allow the court to return an application for insubordination or independence to a court of jurisdiction. Next. It is important that all members of the High Council of Justice be in agreement with the judges. That is, in order to guarantee that any judge who is to be removed from the system has not been able to return because of the accusation of this decision by the European Court of Human Rights, we propose that the Supreme Council of Justice be formed in an appropriate manner. We also propose the formation of a full system of judicial self - government. First of all, we suggest that the meeting of judges be formed from below and that it meet the needs of the judicial system. I would also like to point out that the coalition council today agreed to adopt two bills: a bill initiated by the President and a bill of 1497. In this regard, we would suggest that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice should finalize the bills in question, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u43	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u44	and brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the second reading, one harmonized bill. And for the drafting of the drafts, create a working group involving representatives of the public expert environment, the Council of Judges of Ukraine and international experts. When working together, reconcile the draft legislation with the Constitution of Ukraine with the relevant recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers and the terms of the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, the next reporter is Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Draft Law registration number 1575. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u46	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine, who are watching my speech now! The bill, which I have the privilege of presenting in the Supreme Council, is small in volume, difficult to understand, and is the following. Tell us how many judges have been called to account for making unjust decisions. Can we call it? Probably not. Kiryev and we can't catch it to put it where it's supposed to sit. Why? But because the norm is in the Criminal Code, the judge is responsible for the unjust decision, and the mechanism for the implementation of this law. What is proposed by the bill. It's a very simple thing. If the judge of the first instance decides and the judge or the judge of the appellate body annuls the decision and takes the opposite, one of them has made an illegal decision. What punishment or responsibility does such a judge have? None. Well, maybe he'll be placed there somewhere to get the number of canceled decisions more generalized and everything. The bill states that the court’s decision has been overturned by a higher court, and there is no doubt that there is a basis for disciplining the fact of the matter, and there is still a test of who has taken an unfair decision. There are three options: either the first one, or the judge has learned three ways and is not fully aware of the legislation, and he has misread something, or the law provides him with a rebuttal; or the judge has made an unfair decision against the obvious rules of law, and then the villas under his ass, and then go to work in a farm, or in prison, if he has done a great deal of material damage. And the third option is the legislature, where the law can be both there and here. What is the conclusion? To contact the legislators of the legislative initiative, you and I, with appropriate ministries, with proposals for a legislative initiative to eliminate the disadvantages of legislation. All of it. In the first two cases, the judge is called to account; in the latter case, no. And the last. These complaints are proposed for a period of two months. Why? It's just a matter of time before a person goes into a carnage. And by the beginning of the examination of the cassation, there will be a conclusion by the committee on who did the wrong thing. So I think, and I ask you all to support this bill, this will be a real mechanism for bringing judges to justice for selling cases and putting innocent people in jail. And the last. A lot of me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u47	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u48	I was very impressed by Mr. Filatov's statement not to turn this into a mechanism for dealing with unfair judges. What's that? We need judges to be loyal to power and disloyal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, we have the following bill, 1590, of the registration project. Number 1590, National Deputy Petovka, author, but he does not insist on the speech because he supports, as far as I understand, the previous bill. Please, three minutes from the committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, please come to the rostrum. Then the recording will be three minutes away from the factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, it is certainly a pleasant thing that the Ukrainian Parliament begins its work in the new year by considering bills that directly apply to me, the most important area that requires such immediate reform, namely the judiciary. In the committee’s consideration, a number of laws have a direct bearing on the reform of the judiciary. And apparently yesterday’s decision by the Conciliation Council, which today was recommended by Parliament to consider them to be perfectly logically united bills, is also true. Another point that, in view of such a decision, the committee could not fully consider all the bills, because, according to Parliament's mandate, when they were included in the agenda of the day session, we were asked to consider them in accordance with the law. And you know, the order established by law means that we should have waited until the deadline for the submission of alternative bills and, accordingly, continued to consider them on the committee. Such a term would end only, literally, in the sixth number and, given this, the committee did not fully consider it. But that doesn't mean that we haven't discussed these bills and that we don't have these decisions. No, the committee considered Bill 1656, since it was the task of the Head of the Supreme Council to consider it without delay. And as the most thorough, comprehensive and, as decided by the committee, it was recommended that Parliament vote on this bill as a basis, and that the rest of the bills on the committee be discussed and that is the issue. Given that they are essentially bills that regulate one area of law, let's say, to a different extent, one fairly large, another smaller, separate in some small spheres, but, accordingly, they are logically combined. In view of this, as I believe correctly, the committee proposed to the head of the committee at the session hall, considering that it had been decided to take the basis of draft law 1656, to ask the drafters of the legislative initiative, the right of legislative initiative, which are the authors of other bills, to withdraw their bills, to amend the most appropriate proposals, from them to a second reading. And the committee, taking into account the will of the Conciliation Council, taking into account the freedom of the sessional hall and society, assumes responsibility after the deadline for making appropriate amendments to the legislative initiative is reached, to set up a working group to include all, without exception, the authors of other bills, as well as interested representatives of the judicial branch of power, the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u51	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u52	The Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges, the State Judicial Administration, the Council of Judges, directly experts recognized in the field of judicial law, both domestic and foreign, where we will be able to discuss everyone thoroughly and professionally, without exception, and to go to the second reading version of the bill, which, as far as I am concerned, will remove everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u53	Please let the committee's head finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u54	All the sharp corners that are in these bills are still not agreed upon. These are the decisions of the committee and, honourable colleagues, so far I cannot report another at this stage, because in other more substantive bills, the committee's decision is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, dear fellows, the committee has expressed itself, indeed, the committee has expressed itself in general. Sign up from the factions for three minutes, please. Please, Self-Help, Oleg Berezuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's very sad when people talk about our laws, that it's like breathing. This "breathing," in fact, has led them to the fact that in 24 years we've lost territory, lost sovereignty, lost sovereignty, and destroyed the state. But this is definitely not meant to apply to court laws, because the law on justice depends on the dignity of every human being, including ours, including the person who is now walking directly through Christianity, or in any village, the dignity of its freedom and property. So the laws on court should be perfect, and in good states they're adopted once a hundred years, and they're not reviewed because they're perfect. We must take this process very carefully and I want to thank the President of Ukraine, who is the guarantor of our Constitution, that he is balanced in his approach to this process. I want to thank the coalition that I have adopted on my coalition council today, and I think it's an important decision to ensure the implementation of a coalition agreement that we have worked very hard together and decided to support two bills: the bill of president and the bill of a group of deputies that Mrs. Oksana Siroid reported today. This is of principle important importance that the committee has created a high-quality working group that not only includes MPs, it has not only included experts from the President's Administration, which would involve professionals in legal matters, in court cases, in the public sector, and just people who should see what law will stand on the watch for the dignity of every human being in our country. I would like to see changes to this law made in a hundred years because it would serve a hundred years of social relations in our country. So I thank the Coalition Council for supporting this decision, which is supported in this. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give the task of creating a working group on the committee to draft bills to create the only quality Ukrainian People's Law on the Court, which will be passed by the President of Ukraine without reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Please, Peter Prashenko Block, Natalia Volodymyrna Agaphonova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u58	Honorable colleagues are probably no secret to anyone that judicial reform is a priority for our society. It is a priority for all state authorities: and for the President, who has defined this judicial reform as a priority in the 2020 strategy, and for the Supreme Council, which, in its Coalition Agreement, has outlined all the basic principles of judicial reform. That is why we are here today looking at five bills that relate to one topic. Of course, we understand that it is also necessary to lay the constitutional and legal foundations for changing the judicial system. But the changes to the Constitution are a long and long process that takes up two sessions. We can't stop at this time and waste this time and wait for these changes to be accepted. Until the building is reconstructed, at least repairs should be made in this room so that it can be accommodated. That's why the Petra Prashenko faction supports the most complex and comprehensive bills that have been tabled on this subject. This is Bill 1656, submitted by the President, and the Bill of Oksana Siroid and the Group of Deputies. In their broadest sense, they support and make transparent procedures and choices for judges, and they change the principles of judicial self - government. Also important is the expansion of the list of disciplines, since there are only two disciplines today, and in this case there is no ranking as to what violation the judge will be attracted to, so there is only reproach or liberation. That's why we're proposing to support these two bills. And of course, this judicial reform can only take place when public positions are taken into account. To create a working group, both on the basis of a committee, and on the basis of the involvement of judicial authorities, organs and representatives of the public, to draft a bill and prepare for the second reading a bill that can become the first step in judicial reform and will allow its constitutional and legal changes to be completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, People's Front, national deputy Yemeni.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u60	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. The Mirror of the Week newspaper published ratings of confidence in the authorities in the country two weeks ago. And I'm going to tell you that the courts have overflowed even those bodies that always use trust, like the hajis and the national MPs, and in general, they're in the last place they've won with less than 2 percent confidence. And it's not for nothing, because people understand what courts are and what they use when they make decisions: corruption, instructions from above, etc. Therefore, judicial reform is not what has matured, but is long overdue, and people are tired of waiting for us to finally fulfill the promises that we have made to them all together that the courts will be fair and just. Today, there are two bills. There are five but two that are the most thorough. This is the Presidential Bill and Bill of the Syroid Group of Deputies and my own. And we think that in fact, in each of these bills, there are extremely important issues that can and should resolve the question of fair trial and the return of justice to the decisions of the courts of all levels. Therefore, given that these bills in the community have to address both the question of the judiciary and the question of the unconditional resignation of judges who have not been re-represented, i.e. they are neither qualified nor ethically responsible for their high status as judges, nor have they the right to make decisions on behalf of Ukraine. And appropriate punishment for such judges should be at least a minimum, a resignation from the post of judge. We think we should take the best positions on these bills, put them together for a single bill. In fact, the position of the faction looks exactly like this: Two bills are accepted as a basis, a working group is created, and one is prepared for the second reading with the necessary participation of the public and experts. We shouldn't think we're here in the walls of the Supreme Council on our own. There are plenty of qualified specialists and lawyers and lawyers and professors in colleges who have something to say and have something to bring about judicial reform. So in the shortest term, this task force has to prepare a single draft of judicial reform. And we in the Supreme Council have to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! The question of justice, fair justice is whether or not to be Ukraine. During the course of 23 years, the country was brought into the pen, including the absence of a fair trial in Ukraine. Any person in the country knows that if you don't have a granny, if you don't have a hairy hand, if you don't have a dad, a mom, a prosecutor, a judge or a cool lawyer, you're not gonna get anything in court. You'll be there for years and you won't find the truth. In this room we have some political prisoners who, on their skin and in their health, felt and became convinced of the "justice" of our country's system -- this is Julia Timoshenko, this is Yuri Lucenko, this is Igor Mosiyczuk, this is Andry Biletsky, this is Yuri Sukhevitch, who has yet to experience Soviet justice, all his justice and objectivity. Thus, as long as there is no fair and fair trial in Ukraine until then, there will be no country. Majdan, including the one who came out because people couldn't find the truth in the courts, because people saw that power was stealing, lying, getting rich, engaged in corruption, and you couldn't prove anything, so people did. And those hundreds of lives that Janukovich took, these heroes gave their lives, including to have a just Ukraine, and an honest court, and an honest power. We want to have a court where any man, regardless of his wealth, of his origin, will find the truth there, he will find a just decision there from the village to the President. That is why we believe that Parliament is finally obliged to adopt laws that will change the judicial system in Ukraine. Without a fair trial there is no freedom, without a fair trial there are no investors, without a fair trial there will be no country, without a fair trial we will not end a war. So I urge my fellow MPs to vote on those decisions that will allow us to take the first step on this big road. We must restore justice in the land, it is, and we must fight for it. And today there is an opportunity to show the whole country our struggle by voting for the laws of fair judgment. Please support the bills that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, "Fatherland" Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u64	My fellow Members, we have considered in fact all the bills that have been tabled, and I will announce the faction's decision immediately: we will vote in favour of the bill submitted by the President, and for the bill submitted by the Group of People's Deputies (1797), where the authors are representatives of virtually all factions and groups of parliament. Why? Because today we must answer the key question: What will happen next? First of all with Ukrainian citizens who suffer from unfair court decisions. Secondly, we have to answer the question: what about those judges who have been known to approve decisions by the name of the country that pays them the salary that has given them the education that has given them the opportunity to realize themselves? And then these judges actually approved the decisions that led the country to the Yanukovic dictatorship. Let's think about where it all started. Not from the same judicial reform of the 10th year, when all those cases and the political repressions that were created in the country were actually legitimized. Not from the decision of the Constitutional Court, which by its decision changed the Constitution of a country without Parliament, without a nation. And that is why we must restore justice today. To restore that justice when, on the one hand, we must punish those responsible for what was happening in the state and on the other hand, we must not allow this to happen again. That's why the rules of law that actually allow a fair trial to be restored allow for the punishment of those judges who are being referred to, how to the last instance our citizens are looking for the last rescue, and they're still seeing the sad faces, they're still seeing the bills that they're being offered to pay for the fair decisions of the courts. This should be stopped once and for all. And that's why the two bills that we have today, I believe, will be adopted in the first reading, must be combined into a single bill created by a working group of committees, and then we must send this bill to the Venice Commission so that we will never again have in our practice a repetition of that judicial reform that will enable our country to at least return to any dictatorship. That's why we support these two bills and we propose to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Spinov, the opposition block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u66	The distinguished President, distinguished colleagues, are today proposing a judicial reform. There is certainly a need for reform in our country, and there is a demand for it in society. The opposition bloc is in favour of a consistent continuation of judicial reform. But reform must be very balanced and justified. One of the branches of power cannot be reformed in haste. The previous 2010 reform was widely discussed by the public, and the findings of the Venice Commission, leading international experts, were drawn. Judicial reform of the 10th year and subsequent initiatives to reform justice were limited by the Constitution of Ukraine. Without amending the basic law, there can be no qualitative, systematic and complete completion of judicial reform. This was emphasized by both Ukrainian scientists and experts and our European colleagues. It is not clear why laws have been introduced in such haste that require very serious preparation. The proposed concepts of reform should be discussed in detail and the findings of international experts should be obtained. In the proposed bills, there was sufficient discussion. Yes, reforms are needed, well, not just reforms, but good ones that would really help Ukraine to develop in accordance with European values. Only the Presidential Bill was urgently considered at the Committee's meeting. In addition, there were no experts on the committee, no judges, representatives of the Higher Qualifications Commission, the High Council of Justice and they did not participate in the discussion of a bill that directly affected their activities. A serious decision could be taken, and a working group could be set up to draft the text of the law, together with the proposed amendments, by communicating with experts, to choose the best option. Only then can the room be changed and considered in the sessional room. A crucial reform cannot be carried out quickly, because it is the judiciary that ensures the rule of law and the balance of forces. Our faction will not support any of the bills, because we are only in favour of a comprehensive change in the judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. I promised, although this was not provided for by the Rules, I promised the non-fractional two performances in one minute. I ask the non-fractional to sign up and that will be fair. National MP Marchenko Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u68	I give the word to Osukhov Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u70	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Golovo, my fellow Members, my brothers and sisters in Ukraine, it will be a year soon when we, in the Dignity Revolution, defeated our inner enemy, Yanukovich, and the Party of Regions, but nothing changes in the state. In particular, nothing changes in the judicial system. As judges made illegal infamous decisions, so do they. As the judges were subjected to pressure from the authorities, so far is the case. Only then on the side of Mr. Portnov, and now on the side of Mr. Filatov. The "Freedom" program of the All-Ukrainian Union contains clear points that you would like to be included in those bills. This is, first, the election of judges by the Ukrainian people, the removal of the inviolability of judges, the increase of responsibility for the wrong decisions of judges. If those points are included in the bill, our interfractional union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u71	Please, National Deputy Derevyanko Yuri Bogdanovich. National MP Derevyanco, please. Derevianco is a national MP. None. Thank you. I think we've exhausted our rules of procedure that we've set up to deal with this issue. I'll give you the closing statement before. Committee, please, the committee's closing statement. We'll give you a word, one minute. Please. Then Ruslan Knazevitch, and we're going to go over the bill. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to join us all in the hall. Faction leaders, please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. After the speech of the People’s Derevyanco, we will proceed to the vote on the basis of the first reading of the bill. People's deputies please come into the hall. The Secretariat, please invite the National Deputies. Derevianko National Deputy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u72	Yuri Derevyanco, 87th Majority District, Will Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, there will be no justice in Ukraine unless we really have a judicial reform. No wonder the opposition bloc today stands for the reform that was made in 2010 and it is no wonder that today the courts are trying to serve either the authorities or get bribes for making a decision. We are our colleagues, the people's deputies, today we are calling for the adoption of Bill 1497, and perhaps another bill proposed by the President, in order to make this law a first step in the first reading so that we can actually bring about fair judicial reform. Regrettably, there is still a raid today, and today all the disgraceful steps that Janukovic’s reform has taken are being carried out. We therefore ask for the support of both bills, including 1497.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Are you insisting on the closing word? I don't think there's any point, everything is defined, factions are determined, everyone has said their position as to how they're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, are we all ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. I'll put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the basis of the first reading of the bill, the draft law on the right to a fair trial introduced by the President of Ukraine under registration number 1656, on the basis of the first reading. Please vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. [[11:26:25]] For 288 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I emphasize, fellow Members, that's the first reading, on the basis of which we will continue to work out as expressed by all the people's deputies, because we need a quality bill. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next bill. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges to improve the principles of organization and the functioning of the judiciary in accordance with European standards. Registration number of draft law 1497. I'm asking you to prepare yourself, dear colleagues, on the first reading and on the basis. The first reading and the basis. It's based on 1497. [[11:27:18]] For 246 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Next, dear colleagues. Next bill 1585, registration number, National Deputy Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges on the Real Responsibility of Judges. I'll put it to a vote on the basis of registration number 1585. On the basis of the first reading. [[11:28:11]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! I want to give a commission, what was expressed by the head of the Committee, to create a powerful group of national MPs, experts, authoritative international organizations, so that we can work on a quality, second reading, quality bill. And which would suit the interests of the state today, the interests, first of all the Ukrainians, so I would like to organize this work. Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, one minute, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, as it is now a difficult task for us to face the committee: for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, we have made a decision on the basis of two virtually alternative bills – I would very much ask all the speakers and all the representatives of the political factions, who in their statements had a huge number of observations, amendments, proposals, to send them to the committee, so that they do not happen so that they say that their amendment has not been considered, and that is why he does not support this bill as a whole. I look forward to a large number of amendments within 14 days of tomorrow and to a truly professional job, not just public calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u75	Yes, I have been commissioned to create a working group to work together and prepare for the second reading. Based on the committee, colleagues, based on the committee. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. We have draft regulations that are extremely important. And we talked about it from the beginning, and we spoke to our colleagues. It's a 1700 and 1701 registration order. This is the Appeal concerning the release of our colleague of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of the Savachenko Hope. Timoshenko Ulya Volodymyrna made the decision. Is there a need? Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Julia Volodymyrna, please as the author. The author will speak, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u76	Dear friends, I would like to draw your attention once again to what is going on behind bars in Russia in Moscow, behind bars in Putin. It's a tiny, fragile woman, but with great willpower, she's starving on the 32nd day. She was offered to end the patriarch’s hunger, including the patriarchs of our Ukrainian denominations. The leaders of the key nations of the world were offered. It's almost barely holding. Today, literally before my speech, a lawyer called, and he just had her, and she's in a really bad state. But when told to stop starving, she says it is her fight for Ukraine. It's on the verge of life, it's obvious. We only want one thing right now: that all the forces of the world that have an impact on Putin, because this is his own decision, is his own wendet to Ukraine. It's because of Nadia, through the sun, through everyone he kills today in Ukraine, it's his own vendetta for us to live freely, for the right to build a European country, for the right not to depend on anyone, to be the sovereign state of Nadia today gives tribute to his life to this struggle. We want all the leaders of the world, all the international organizations that can influence Putin today, to get involved immediately, because the calculation is now going on for almost an hour. She's giving up any shot, she's standing up bravely. There's Vera Savchenko in the hall right now. That's her sister. Believer, please. [[Applause]] Yeah, there she is. Our mother, Mary, is watching us on TV. [[Applause]] All the people who want to help her right now are in solidarity with us. I thank you all for standing up in the hall because it is a great honor to a brave, heroic woman. Now I want you and I to remember in her face all of our heroes: and those who have fallen on the fronts, and who have lost their health on the fronts, and who are now in prison, who are now in captivity, who are now at war, fighting every minute over Ukraine. In the face of Hope, we must pay tribute to all of them today. So we made only two petitions. Yes, this is not the first time. Everyone knows that this is not the first turn, we just fight at all the doors. We're knocking into all the government offices, we're trying to reach the hearts of the leaders of the world. Not the first address, it may not be the last one, but please support me with one vote for both of you. The first is to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, they have an impact on the Red Cross, they have an impact on the various international institutions, let them connect. The management of the Parliamentary Assembly has a personal relationship with Putin, and he can talk to him. The same is true of the leaders of countries today negotiating for peace in Ukraine. This is Angela Merkel, this is the President of France, I'm not going to count it, there's everyone in this format. I'm asking: let's vote, let's just go to Nadia. I don't know how to turn to her to stop starving, because to talk to her to stop starving, well, no one can stop her, she has to make that decision on her own. She said she'd stand to the last, she wouldn't stop. That's her position. So I'm asking you to put it to a vote right now, to hand over from all of us just a warm human greeting to Nadia, and also to the Sun, to everyone who is in captivity today. Let them feel that we are with them, that our hearts are with them, that we will fight for them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u77	And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u78	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote. I will put two rulings to the vote because they are two prepared. Registration number 1700. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote, please support. 1700 registration number. In general. On the basis and in general. [[11:35:40]] For 304 Decision taken. And I'm also putting to the vote the draft decree, registration number 1701. Please vote. 1701. 1701. On the basis and in general, please vote. Please vote. [[11:36:08]] For 306 Decision taken, my dear fellows. [[Applause]] You know, I'm going to allow myself on behalf of all our colleagues, because it's about life and death, and the huge threat that Hope Savichenko faces, and I'm going to allow myself to go to her, and I think somehow she'll hear about it (and sister hears) to stop starving. We need it alive and healthy as an example of powerful faith, heroism, and feat. So, I think that this appeal may be in common with the entire composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to address Hope Savechenko with a request to stop starving. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the drafts. Registration number 0962 is a bill for re-examination with the President's proposals. Reporter: Deputy Regional Development Minister Andri Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Act provides for the establishment by 31.12.2015 of additional guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens residing in or temporarily resettled areas of the ATO in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas, as well as restrictions on the responsibility of residential and utility companies in the ATO area in the event of their late payment of energy resources. The president of Ukraine proposes to amend the law, taking into account the following comments. Clarify the name of the law, since it does not contain a moratorium on the billing and collection of pennies from citizens. The name is proposed as follows: "To establish additional guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens residing in the territories of an anti-terrorist operation and to limit the liability of enterprises of residential service providers in the event of non-temporary payments for energy consumption." Part of the first article of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law should be supplemented by the words: "that provides such services in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in order not to allow for any deterioration in the calculation of energy consumption by companies that do not operate in the ATO. " Part two of article 3 and paragraph two of article 4 of the law should be deleted, since the law does not determine what compensation for the losses of the companies of the manufacturers of the JRC is concerned. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u80	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? Everyone, are all the adjustments accounted for? There's an editorial, I'm told, with a national MP. Please. Alona Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! The draft law uses terms such as "citizens live in the territory of the holding", "citizens live in populated areas in whose territory an anti-terrorist operation has been carried out", and "companies carry out their activities not in the area, but in populated areas." We therefore ask for the first sentence of article 1 to be edited as follows: "The purpose of this law is to establish additional guarantees for the protection of the housing and property rights of citizens who live in populated areas in which an anti-terror operation has been carried out, and of citizens who have been temporarily relocated to other settlements in Ukraine from those in the territory of which an anti-terror operation has been carried out." And in the second part of article 2, put it this way: "Set a moratorium on the time laid down in article 1 of this law, on the counting and aggregating of foam and other fines for energy, gas and water companies in the event of an emergency."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u82	I think so. Please. In fact, only the President's proposals for procedure are currently under consideration. Therefore, adjustments may need to be made. Ruslan Knyazevich, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head, as a representative of the President, I just want to reaffirm fully what you just said. Since we are currently considering the President's proposals, the reporter is not authorized, he is not subject to the right of legislative initiative, to make any amendments, all the more out of the voice. This is the position of the President. Parliament may, in accordance with the Rules, agree with it, or may disagree, with the veto. There's nothing else. In that case, if none of the decisions are made, Parliament may refer to a committee of profile which, in the re-second reading mode, can take into account the amendments you are talking about. But changing them from voice to voice in the rostrum no one except the subject of the right to legislative initiative is authorized. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u84	Thank you. No, I think it should be agreed, because it's a procedure. And let's think about it this way. We're going to make changes, we're going to make changes and we're just going to make changes to the law and everything in this part. No more objections? Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone to take their seats now, and we'll vote in favour of the bill. To accept it in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, are fully taken into account. Please vote. Please be supportive. Adopt in general, taking into account the President's proposals, registration number of the Ukrainian Law 0962. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:42:33]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, then prepare your proposals. And we'll prepare the changes immediately. We register them as changes to the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] When it comes into force, but now it's being prepared, they're preparing what it's all about. Please, Your Honor, the next bill. Registration number 0963 is Ukraine's Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget. Reported by the Deputy Finance Minister of the first Umanski Igor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u85	Good afternoon. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act of 2 September last year on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and certain other legislative acts. It was not signed by the President of Ukraine and returned in accordance with part two of article 94 of the Constitution to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for reconsideration. This bill, in particular, foresees: first, the abolition of the requirement to take account of the annual message of the President of Ukraine and of the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external situation, in the formulation of the State budget forecast for the next two budget periods under development. the development of a draft framework for budgetary policy for the next budget period; and secondly, the agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budgetary issues of the decision of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of the Regional Development Fund funds through administrative units and related programmes and actions. The president of Ukraine suggested that the corresponding changes to the budget code regarding articles 21, 21/1 and 33 of the article be excluded. By a decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs of 10 December 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the proposals of the President of Ukraine be taken into account and accepted as a whole. At the same time, taking into account the changes adopted on 28 December to the Budget Code for Inter-Budget Reform, further work needs to be done, including the deletion of provisions already regulated in the provisions of the Code with regard to changes in terms of: allocation of Regional Development Fund funds, part one, part one, part one, part one, part one, part one, part one, part one, part one, part two, treasury services for general government social and pension insurance funds, and part three, distribution and redistribution of subsidies and additional public budget grants to local budgets. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's proposals on the basis of the above.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? None. Please, a co-reporter. I invite Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u87	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the committee has considered the President's proposals for this law and is proposing to support them. But there was a problem. This law, to which the President's veto was applied, was approved on September 2nd last year. On December 28, last year, Parliament adopted the Code of Budgets, which imposes many laws on one another. Therefore, we cannot conduct a clean procedure to confirm the law or to support the President's proposal without further clarification. What does the committee suggest in this regard? The committee proposes: firstly, to support the President's proposals for the law; secondly, to vote on the removal of the rules from the bill, which have already been voted upon and have become the rules of law in accordance with the December 28 decision. What standards are we talking about? This is about paragraphs 6, 10, 11, paragraph 13, paragraph 20 and paragraph 3 of Section I. In addition, the first paragraph of Chapter II should be worded as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." For January 1 has passed, and the law of January 1 cannot enter into force. In this regard, we propose the following decision - making procedure. The first is to support the President's proposals for a draft law and put this proposal to the vote. The second is to vote on the deletion from the draft law of the rules that I just sounded. And the third is to vote by Parliament on a new bill that takes into account the President's proposals and removes those positions that I said. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u88	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. I think there's a problem with this procedure. Prince Ruslan. Umanski? Please, Umanski. Because we're looking at the veto right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u89	Thank you. I wanted to emphasize again. I agree with Victor Mikhailovich. We had adopted the Budget Code and changed it with regard to inter-budget relations. And a lot of things, and the points that have been changed by the law since September 2, 2014, have already been settled. I also spoke about it in the report. But these two positions that the President vetoed, they remained in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u90	That is, the proposal to vote against the President's position. Please, Anatoly Matvienko, there is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u91	Anatoly Matvienko. Vladimir Borisovich, we really can't remove something from the President's project and add something, but we can only vote two positions. If we vote on only two positions, that means we've voted on a new bill, and we're giving it to the President either for the signature or for the promise. That's why we're voting on two positions of the President, the rest -- we're not voting, and in this way we're partially counting the President's position, so we're handing over the law to the President, and he's making a decision on his signing or his promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u92	Colleagues, we can't do that, we don't have to invent anything. So there's a general procedure now, there's the position of the President, we need to consider and adopt this bill now. Then we send him to the President, the President signs him, then we prepare a draft amendment to the law, and we change the law. We can't change anything right now in what we've got now. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'd like to get your attention again. It's not the President's project, it's a project that was born in Parliament that was voted here. If we vote only on the President's proposals, there will be a coalition, because many of the rules have been amended by another law that changes the budget law. So what the committee proposes is, essentially, to adopt a new version of the law, taking into account the President's proposals and taking into account that a lot of norms have already become rules of law, they need to be removed from the project, and there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u94	Thank you. Who wanted a word? Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it is certainly not a simple extraordinary situation. But as for me, Victor Mikhailovich, if I may, I would ask for your attention, this must be completely unrelated things. This is not about the basic law, not the Budget Code itself, but about the Law on amending the Budget Code in some parts. And what we want to do in this law is to make some changes to the budget code, that's different things. Let's keep moving. First, let's take into account the President's proposals, and in the new edition, we're going to send the Law on Amendments to that part to the signature, but in parallel, we really need the committee to work out the changes immediately after the Code of Budgets was signed, to the Budget Code already, because these are different planes. We're now talking about different legal relations within one of the Budget Codes. This is the essence of the bill, which the President is talking about, and the procedural rules of validity, in fact, the Transitional positions that the committee is talking about. So now you don't have to combine these things, you have to first solve the question essentially of the law, and then you have to think about how the Transitional positions are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u96	It's a good thing we're not commenting, it's suggestions. I suggest this because we have it now. I think we should bring him back to the committee, rework him on the committee, make agreed proposals and then vote as it should be before the procedure. Otherwise, from the voice now, what you're saying can cause serious complications. That's why I'm putting to the vote Bill No. 0963 on the return to the committee for consideration and preparation of the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? Please put to the vote. Come back, agree, and we'll bring it in. On your return to the committee, on the committee, you will cooperate, please vote, please vote. [[11:52:31]] For 270. Headed to the committee. I ask you to consider and make agreed proposals to this bill. Registration number 0963, with the President's proposals. Please, please, your honor, registration number 0964. Report to Deputy Justice Minister Bondarchuk. Next: Co-Rapporteur and committee head, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On May 13, 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Act No.1257,7 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the National Registration of Legal and Physical Persons, Entrepreneurs, to simplify the cessation of legal persons, and the law. The purpose of the law is to remove obstacles to the process of restructuring and the elimination of legal persons who are in the phase of cessation. The amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On State Registration of Legal and Natural Persons" exclude part two of the second article 35, which stated that, from the date of the entry into the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs (hereinafter: the EDR), the registration of the decision of the founders, members of a legal entity or their authorized authority on the termination of a legal person is prohibited, inter alia, from carrying out a national registration of a legal person, the founder of which is a legal person for whom a decision has been taken to suspend and carry out a public registration, changes to the information contained in the EDR, the location of a legal person. These changes are not in line with articles 81, 104, 105, and 111 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which stipulate that the actions of the legal person who stops are aimed at paying off the debt and meeting the creditors ’ demands. The provision of the law under consideration, the ability to actually create and conduct a state registration of a legal person whose founding member is a legal person for whom a decision to terminate is made, creates a risk of transferring liquidated property from a legal person who stops to another legal person who may prevent repayment of the debt and satisfaction of creditors due to the absence of a legal person who stops, another property. The other one. Regarding the proposed law under consideration, the lifting of the ban on the conduct of State registration and changes to the information contained in the EDR should be noted. Changing the location of the legal person in the process of stopping it will make it more difficult for the relevant public authorities to carry out checks: the fiscal service, the Ukrainian Pension Fund and social insurance funds – and may result in tax evasion, congregations, the only contribution to the mandatory public social insurance of insurance. In addition, the possibility of changing the whereabouts of the legal person who stops is created to eliminate the commission from the termination of the legal person, the liquidation commission, the commission from the reorganization of obligations to creditors. Third. An adopted law (part of article 37 of the Registration Act) is complemented by a provision to which, if the EDR contains information that such a legal person has an open, separate unit, the State registry must simultaneously make appropriate changes to the EDR to the information about these separate units in part belonging to the legal person of the offender. In fact, the law relies on the State registry to provide information on separate branches of legal persons (the successors) on their own reasoning, since the criteria for the distribution of information on separate divisions among legal persons (the successors) are not available. The above uncertainty in the law poses corrupt risks and risks of abuse by public registrars. Moreover, the proposed law for the reporting of separate branches of the legal entity does not harmonize with the legal nature of the separate unit, which according to the provisions of the Civil and Master Codes of Ukraine is not a legal person, but rather a legal person who is entrusted with the property of the legal person who created it and acts on the basis of the established position. It should also be noted that the proposed provision of the law is not in line with part three of article 28 of the Registration Act, which provides that the executing body of a legal person or persons authorized by him or her is obliged to submit, is to send by mail a description of the investment of the State registry at the location of the legal person of the report on the closure of a separate unit. In connection with the foregoing, we propose to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u98	Thank you. Are there questions for the reporter, your esteemed colleagues? None. Head of the committee, co-reporter, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 10 December considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal and Business Persons on Simplification of the Cessation of Legal Persons (registration No. 0964), adopted by the Supreme Council on 13 May. Guided by part five of article 133 of the Rules Act, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and reject the prescribed law. At the same time, members of the committee, taking into account the need to address the need to simplify the implementation of the State registration procedure as a result of mergers, mergers, divisions, conversions, have decided to prepare an appropriate bill to amend the draft Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. Such a bill has been prepared and registered by committee members under registration number 1416. Therefore, we ask for support for the decision of the committee and for the rejection of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Legal and Natural Entrepreneurs on the Simplification of the Stopping of Legal Persons (registration No. 0964). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u100	Thank you, sir. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for both the President and a proposal for the committee to reject the law. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs. Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs. I will now put to the vote on the rejection of the law (registration number 0964). Are you ready to vote down the bill? At the suggestion of the President and supported by the committee. Vote please, Your Honor. About the deviation. [[11:59:45]] For 236 Overruled. Thank you, Your Honor. According to the Regulation, by 12.30 p.m. I'm already being tipped off. By 12:30, I'm calling it a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u101	But look, our vans are in place. It's all right. Come on, come on, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. Everyone, please come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, let's party in the hall. The people of Ukraine are watching your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your jobs. We're going to start or we're going to continue our work. We still have a number of issues that we need to consider with you, particularly the bills that we need to consider in the first reading. Dear faction leaders! Please invite members of the people to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. And I would like to ask you to concentrate, because I would like to invite you to a word right now with the sad information of our colleague, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Parbia. But I would ask you to concentrate, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u104	Honorable MPs, honourable Ukrainians, as the great Christmas days passed each day in the forerunner of our warriors protected our country, our state, our children from the Kremlin invaders, from the Gulf fighters. In fact, every day our boys were killed in front. But in these great Christmas days, the greatest loss was the legendary battalion of the Kulczytsky National Guard. The first battalion of volunteers to go to the front. This is a unique example when the guys from Midan, from Midan's self-defense, laid out on the barricades of all Majdan in Gruszewski, at the Institute, the guys who were often not military, lawyers, entrepreneurs, teachers, scientists who went to Midan to protect peaceful citizens when the day came when the time came right in Midan were searching and headed for the front, and went to the far barricades, to the barricades under Debaltsev, the Lugansk Station, under Mariupol. 15 National Guard fighters died in the light of Christmas. The funerals of two of them take place today. I am sure that their souls have gone to God in Paradise. I want all of us together to express our sympathy to our families and to honor the memory of our heroes. Heroes don't die! [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. We are considering a draft Act amending Act 17-2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. It's the first reading. I propose that we consider this bill as a reduced procedure. If there is a discussion, then we will continue the discussion. If there is no objection, then I would like to vote on the reduced procedure (Law No. 1548). Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[12:44:28]] For-174 Decision taken. Let's start with a simplified procedure. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the faction leaders to invite the national deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Because we have a number of important decisions that we need to make with you. Please, the Secretariat, please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Let's start with a simplified procedure. Deputy Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food Vladimir Ivanovich Lapa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u106	Dear Head, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, allow me to make a report on the Government Bill 1548 on the amendment to article 17-2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine (for the Powers of Animal Farms and Complexes). The point is that the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine directly foresees restrictions on support exclusively for large and super large farms. For example, the law contains a rule that the state has no right to maintain animal complexes that hold fewer than 500 heads of cattle. Similar restrictions are provided for animal complexes in pigs and birds. So we support big corporations, we don't give them opportunities, and the law directly predicts, we don't allow medium and small businesses in rural areas. The Cabinet of Ministers in this bill proposes to lift the limit on the number of heads in order to enable medium-sized businesses in rural areas. That's the first one. The second novel of this law, it foresees the possibility of State support by costing the cost of animal complexes, also for feeding sites and for meat-digestion sites created on scientific and operational grounds by rural people. In this case, it can even be household matters. So on the one hand, we're predicting the possibility of supporting a line for medium-sized business and through cooperatives for small businesses. This is consistent with the content of the coalition agreement, which is consistent with the practice of supporting the European Union, which is consistent with common sense. And this is a very important question, given that animals form the basis of employment, the basis of rural income. I'd like the people's deputies to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. The committee head's report, Taras Viktorovich Kutovov, please. People's deputies, please come to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the committee discussed this bill at its meeting on December 23, 2014. In fact, it's a very short, key thesis in it is that we're actually opening up the possibility of compensation by the State for small producers, including small producers, including small producers, including in this way we'll be able to neutralize the conditionally negative impact on small producers in the context of the Safety and Quality of Food Act, when we limit them in certain aspects of activity. Given the prospect of applying this bill, of course it is positive, according to the committee. Therefore, the committee decided unanimously to support the bill not only on the basis but also on the whole. In view of the fact that all the funds are not included in the 2015 budget, its practical impact is usually prompted by questions. But from the point of view of integration into European society, maybe this is very important, and that is why we ask the committee to support it today on the basis and in general not to go back to it and waste the valuable time of the national deputies for review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. Two for, two against. Please sign in. There's no "for," there's no "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u110	Sergey Eutuszek, faction of Fatherland, please pass on the word to Ivchenko Wadima.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u111	Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u112	Your Honor, your colleagues, your honor. Minister! Thank you for such a powerful offer because it: (a) is timely and (b) it needs, indeed, support and supports small and medium-sized businesses, especially rural farms. The project also proposes to change the conditions of compensation for the construction and reconstruction of animal farms and complexes, including the removal of a valid requirement for cattle of at least 500 heads, pigs, birds of at least 1 million heads and the conditions for receiving such compensation. In addition, it is stated that the cost of building and rebuilding not only objects to maintain large cattle but also breast - feeding facilities built on cooperative grounds will be compensated. The same cooperative principles also include milk and meat - processing enterprises. Very important changes, a very powerful bill, so please support the bill and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Dehtyarchuk, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u114	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, Dubinsk constituency. Two points that allow for this law and that need to be clearly supported. The first point is, unlike agriculture, animals provide jobs on the ground. And the second moment, clearly, improves the efficiency of the use of farmyards in places. So the proposal is definitely to support this little bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u115	Thank you. Two for. Is there a need for factions that did not participate? Please, Yegor Sobolev. Then it's from the non-fractional ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we have considered this law on the anti-corruption committee of parliament. In general, we did not find any problems there, but there was one important point: it was not clear how to remove the criteria for the size of the farms in order to obtain this support; how to avoid inaccuracies in making decisions to which to give this support to, to whom not to give it. Because so often, when it is not clear what the criteria are, it can lead to corruption. And we'd like to hear the authors say that this is going to be impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Lewchenko Yuri, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u118	Leuchenko, Freedom. We certainly support this bill, it is essential to enable our producers to develop properly. However, there is a very important point that we would insist on the second reading. I'm going to make appropriate amendments to this bill, and finally in the law, to have clear criteria that would, in fact, oblige the authorities to give appropriate preferences to small and medium-sized producers. So it doesn't work out that eventually these preferences, which are prescribed in this law, are, as always, in the biggest agrohholdings that can still allow themselves to build the appropriate infrastructure without any problems. Accordingly, we will make appropriate adjustments. Once again, I stress that this is necessarily true of small and medium - size producers of agriculture, farmers, in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor. Ostap Semiraq, People's Front. Wait a minute. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u120	Thank you, Your Honor. Semierak Ostap, People's Front. The People's Front faction is asking to consider and support this bill as a whole. I would like to remind you a little bit of the history of this bill, which was adopted by the previous authorities. It has been taken to satisfy the business interests of large agro-companies and what the government is offering today is the right decision. The government wants to help and support not only large agricultural producers but small and medium. So this step, proposed by the government, corresponds to the general tendency to avoid preferences for oligarchi business and to support small, medium-sized businesses. I'd like to support you. And apparently, when considering the budget in the following discussions, there will also be additional funding for this article, which will also support an increase in the number of jobs in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, the reporter's closing word. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u122	Dear National Deputies! Thank you so much for the questions, and they are, indeed, correct and meaningful. The point is that we anticipate the possibility of support, and the principles of the distribution of support also need to be changed. We understand that clearly. We will see changes to the Law on State Support for Agriculture in terms of publicity, transparency and transparency of support. But they will apply not only to all the programs, but to all the budget support programmes that are in the APC. So I ask you now to uphold this norm, and all that concerns the distribution of support is a separate issue, and we will come up with appropriate initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u123	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm voting on the basis and the whole bill (registration number 1548), draft law amending article 17-2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. I ask the people’s deputies to prepare themselves, and I lay the groundwork for the committee’s proposal of draft law (registration number 1548). Vote, Your Honor, No. 1548. On the basis and in general. [[12:55:39]] For 265 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Next. The registration number of Bill 1546 I also propose that we now consider it in a simplified procedure. I am voting on the bill for a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:56:10]] For 212 Decision taken. Let's start the discussion. Isainko Dmitry Valeriyovich, Deputy Regional Development Minister, reports. Please. I ask all my colleagues to listen carefully. It's a law that completely decentralizes the system of state architectural and building inspection, it's passed on to places. A system is changing that will not allow this direction to be misused. On one occasion, the bill was submitted to Parliament and was successfully failed. Then it took six months for all these circles to pass and return to the Supreme Council Hall. And today we must avoid making this mistake because of it. They're waiting in places. And this law includes that State architectural and building control will even be carried out even if necessary in rural areas. It is the village councils that choose people, not officials who are appointed from Kiev. So I'd like to ask you very carefully to listen to this bill. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Decentralisation of Powers in Architectural and Construction Control and Improvement of Urban Legislation provides for the possibility of establishing State architectural and building control bodies in the composition of local self-government bodies. Transfer to the local level of authority from the issuance of permit documents, the implementation of State architectural and building control and the adoption of completed construction facilities; the establishment of a public decision-making system, the improvement of the procedure for the submission of declarations on the start of preparatory and construction work by establishing a comprehensive list of grounds for their return. Shortening the deadline for issuing technical conditions, setting up a comprehensive list of documents submitted for acceptance by the completed construction of objects. Given the importance of the bill, please support and accept it as a result of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u125	Thank you. I ask: a co-reporter, deputy head of the Committee on Construction and Construction of Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The committee at its meeting on December 24, 14th, proposed to support Bill 1546 and to adopt it on the first reading as a basis, but on the first reading on the basis, please note that. The committee made the appropriate submission and the draft ruling on the matter in due course. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus concluded the bill and believes that the draft law can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. But at the time of consideration of the bill at the committee meeting, there was no conclusion by the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption since December 30, 14, which stated that the draft act did not meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation, that was the first time. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is supposed to be in line with the terms of the Coalition Agreement, which, inter alia, during 2015 provides for the reorganization of local government administrations, the delimitation of powers of local and central authorities. In addition, there is no funding for structural units for State architectural and building control in the local budgets for this year. So if we adopt this law as a whole today, we're going to have a lot of problems: we're practically all committees and commissions are going to stop working, well, except maybe the city of Kiev and other cities that, I understand, really need it. So I'm asking you to adopt this law as a basis for the first reading, to send it to second reading for further elaboration with requirements and anti-corruption legislation, and with the requirements of our Coalition Agreement. And take it no sooner than the decision on the local arrangement will be made. Because, to this day, great powers are passed on to government administrations, which I hope will soon be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u127	Thank you. I would like to emphasize that these functions are passed on from government authorities to local self-government bodies, which means decentralization. And in fact, it's expected today both in the renegotiations and in the big cities, and this bill predicts that this can be done, including for rural communities, if they want, they have the resources to do it and they can do it. So no extra charges, but the government apparatus must be destroyed in this direction and the government budget must be saved. So now we're looking at, I would like to emphasize this bill in the first reading. This will mean that we will prepare him for the second reading. And I think I understand that there might be a desire for him, this bill, to talk. Because it's not the first approach to destroying this system, it's a criminal system. And we can't let that happen with you, so in the first reading, preparation for the second reading will continue to be determined. If you'd like to make a statement about this, please, Oleg Berezuk, then I'll see Sergey Taruta. We had pros and cons. Well, please, Oleg Berezuk. In a minute, but don't just write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! We must correct the mistake of the previous authorities. Destroying the corruption system, a corruption elevator that raised three, five, seven, ten dollars a square metre from above is unknown. During this "state" in settlement quotes, in the cities of Ukraine, including Lviv, there were a lot of illegal, completely illegal buildings that grew up where they were innocent to grow up because these or other broken sanitation standards. So the proposal of the self-help faction is to vote on this law in the first reading, to allow communities to work together and give control over the architectural environment of their cities. And then this responsibility will be borne by the local architects to their people, not by ephemeral institutions 500-600 kilometers from the cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a proposal to vote. I called Lechchenka a minute, please. Then Sergei Taruta. And we finish, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u130	Lewchenko, VO "Freedom", city of Kiev, 223 district. Of course, it's very important to transfer these functions from the criminally corrupt State Department, which is involved in the crackdown of illegal oblivions, to local self-government agencies. However, also, if we really want to fight against the country's chaotic forgetfulness, not lobbying the building business, which is unfortunately a crime and is currently working criminally in the country, we also need to increase the requirements in parallel to the beginning of the construction, increase the requirements in Category II to not be a declaratory principle, but to reverse the arbitrary principle. That is not to say, as is the case today, when playgrounds, parks, and parks are cut down and built, and the living space of humans is destroyed. So the first reading needs to support this bill, and the second reading needs to increase control of the building mafia in order to eventually destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u131	Please, Sergey Taruta.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u132	I suggest we support the first reading. And secondly, to approach this law completely from the perspective of the reforms that we have discussed. If we're talking about reform, let's take control of ourselves at all. Let us do so in a civilized Europe where the contractors and the projector are responsible. It is supervised. Why any other oversight functions on the part of oversight organizations? Let us approach from the perspective of reforms if we are to speak of what we really want to do in reform. Moreover, this is part of the European procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u133	Thank you. Deputy Matvienkov, and we're taking a risk. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u134	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, but in the need to adopt this bill, I think there is no doubt about it. Moreover, if we are talking about decentralization, perhaps decentralization should not start with authority, but decentralization should start with funds. That would probably be the right thing to talk about in this room today. But now I want to say no to that. That we really need to change this system and put it on our feet so that we understand how this whole mechanism works. I would like to propose that, in finalizing the second reading of this bill, the members of the committee should try to go to any district and see how any project moves, and walk through all these, all of these mechanisms in order to understand how this mechanism works today, how this procedure works. Indeed, today, to decide whether to obtain a certificate or not, it is the treachery of virtually every committee. Therefore, to complete it until second reading, it is necessary to take strict concrete measures to really remove all these obstacles, not in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u135	Thank you, Your Honor. I feel here a complete unity in this, in the approach to this law. I'll put him to the vote in the first reading, we'll work on the second reading. But the important thing is that we don't walk away from the principles, we have to destroy any corruption systems in the state architecture system. Building control needs to change the systemic situation, yes, that is to say, change the principle. I put it to the vote in the first reading. What? From the Fatherland faction, Yvchenko. Everyone wants to make a statement, everyone supports this law. Please, National Deputy Ivchenko. Colleagues, when we understand what we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we need to support this bill. He's decentralizing our country's most corrupt structure today. Each builder knows how much it costs to use an object, each dollar. And we today have to accept it in our first reading and pass it on to local self - government authorities and executive authorities. It was wrong to say that when it's passed on to local self-government authorities, when they are today, some of them, unable to perform the data on architectural and building control, they'll be transferred to the council district. But when we form capable communities in every community, there will be an architectural and building inspector who will oversee the construction. You remember when city councils and village councils accepted objects and entered into social agreements. In Kiev, they provided direct guidance on the acceptance of objects into service, and these social agreements have not been paid in years. So the "Fatherland" faction suggests that it should still be accepted in the first reading to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're the only ones here. I want to stress that while I was still in government, I was preparing this bill. I think that all who have understanding in this whole sphere have to support it. So I would now like to prepare for the vote and support this bill in the first reading and prepare it for full second reading. Please, Your Honor, I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the decentralization of powers in the field of architectural and building control and improvement of urban legislation (registration No. 1546). Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare and support this bill as a basis for your first reading. Please vote on the basis. Please vote on the basis. [[13:09:50]] For 287 Decision taken. I'm asking the MPs to do a thorough job and prepare him for his second reading. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill, 1565, is also an important bill. A draft law on the specificities of the exercise of property in multi-story buildings. I'm asking you, I'd also like to consider it as a reduced procedure. I will put to the vote this bill under summary procedure. Please be supportive. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:10:36]] For 234 Thank you. Decision taken. Please report to the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Billows Andry Leonidovich. And the co-reporter is the deputy head of Babak Alon Valeriyov's committee of profile. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u138	Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Realization of Property in a Multiple - Apartment House defines the characteristics of the exercise of property rights, regulates legal, organizational, and economic relations related to the exercise of rights and the performance of the duties of joint owners of a multi-household building in respect of its maintenance and management. The bill regulates the definition of such terms as apartment buildings, auxiliary facilities, trailers, common property in a large apartment building, and the management of a large apartment building. The bill provides for a clear definition of the rights, duties, and responsibilities of the joint owners of the apartment building. The mechanism for co-owners to make concerted decisions on the management of a multi - apartment building through the conduct of congregations, the possibility of free choice in the congregations, forms, and ways of managing common property, the improvement of joint property management mechanisms, and the normalization of the cost of coowners for the management and maintenance of a multi - apartment building. The implementation of the basic provisions of the bill will allow you to freely choose the form and manner of managing the apartment building. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian law on the characteristics of the exercise of property rights in a multi-family building. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u139	Thank you, Andre Leonidzovich. Please report, Deputy Chief of Committee Babak Alona Valeriyovn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u140	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 24 December 2014, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House (registration No. 1565), which was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to regulate the enforcement of property rights and the effective management of a multi-family building, to provide homeowners with an effective mechanism for decision-making on the maintenance and management of shared property, including decisions such as the implementation of complex thermomodernization of residential buildings. In its conclusion of 24 December 2014, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office notes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for work, taking into account the comments made and proposals made. The Committee on Prevention and Opposition to Corruption adopted a decision of December 27, 2014, that no corruption factors were identified in the 1565 project. There were no proposals from other committees. Considering that the proposals and comments that have been made can be taken into account when preparing the bill for consideration in the second reading. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of its first reading, the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law on the specialities of the exercise of ownership in a multi-family building, registration number 1565. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's recommendations and accept the bill (1565) as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Two "for, two "against," please sign up for the speech. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction will only support this bill in the first reading, because there is a warning in part that there is no compulsion to create a government, a compulsory appointment of people to run houses. Because we understand that it's going to be very difficult if today for people who live in the same bushes in old houses, to translate everything that the state hasn't done 40-50 years of capital repairs into people today, on their request, and it's to restore it. That's why we, the Fatherland faction, only support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u143	Thank you. National Deputy Smoking Maksim Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The need for adoption of this law is long overdue. For 20 years in our country, our housing fund, which is now at 75 per cent in emergency or vehta state, is in terrible, unprecedented vacchanals. This also applies to the city of Dnepropetrovska, in particular, I am sure, and to many other cities in our country. The fate of built-in premises, which had been removed from the housing fund by local councils in violation of the requirements of the law, had been further privatized without the opinion of the people and had prevented people from managing their assets. I therefore propose that we really support the need to adopt this law in the first reading with further refinements and must address issues, including the management of joint networks: electrical, sewage and built-in premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Next. National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u146	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the need to resolve this problem and there are issues here, I think there is no doubt about it. Is there a need? Yeah, mature. Is it appropriate to enact the law in which it is now in order to correct it for second reading? I think that the committee will not be able to amend the bill at all times, because there are virtually only declarations, directions, and no concrete solution that would address vital issues, and there are no vital issues in this bill. And we don't see a way out of these decisions. Today there is a mass of questions that are really ripe. There are conditions for rising prices of public payments, there is a system that should work in any city, there is a system that should work in any public sector. Unfortunately, however, we do not see a concrete proposal to get out of here. Therefore, our faction proposes to send it to the author in order to enable him to elaborate on all these issues, perhaps in conjunction with the Committee, and to re-read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u147	Thank you, Your Honor. Or is it. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, today, by adopting this law in the first reading, we recognize and legitimize the activities of hundreds of thousands of people who unite in their apartment buildings in order to improve their quality of life. That's why it had to be taken 20 years ago. Today we would have a completely different situation in the CDC. That's why we accept and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u149	Thank you. I think that's a perfectly reasonable offer. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please return to your jobs. Dear National Deputies! You can do it at a different time. I'd like to ask the national deputies to return to their jobs. Now we're going to vote for the bill. Please take your jobs. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u150	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u151	Mikhail Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u152	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishka, election district No. 164. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand how important this bill is now, because for many people who own multi-housing buildings, it is very painful. We should finally say good-bye to that Soviet government rudimentary -- the Jack's -- and move on to another quality level of management of the HKG. But there are a number of observations about this bill. Of course, it must be accepted in the first reading, but we believe that our corrections and observations will be approved for the second reading, namely: this is a question of how agreements will be concluded between the administration and the owners of multiple apartment buildings; how land plots will be passed on, especially behind houses, since this is a matter for local communities and this is very painful. Of course it's an authorization. If they are exceeded by the management of the HKG, how will they affect the owners of multi-family buildings? These are all things we have to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We vote in the first reading as a basis. Please prepare, distinguished national MPs. Take your jobs, please. Please take your jobs. Let's vote, dear fellows. Please take your seats. Dear fellow national MPs, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a draft law on the specificities of the exercise of property in multiple apartment buildings (project registration number 1565). I'm putting it on the ground. Vote please, Your Honor. On the basis of that, please vote. [[13:21:13]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, please. Draft Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings (Registration No. 1566). Report to the Deputy Minister for Regional Development. But before that, I would like to put to the vote on the procedure. I would like to propose a brief procedure to address this issue. Is there no objection? Please put to the vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:21:54]] For 193 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, draft of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. Please report to the Deputy Minister. Please report for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft legislation is designed to implement the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the EU Council on energy characteristics of buildings in national legislation. The bill provides: minimum requirements for the energy efficiency of buildings to be reviewed every 5 years; provision is made for measures to ensure the energy efficiency of buildings; laying the foundations for building buildings and buildings with a zero energy cycle; laying down the principles of State support for the energy efficiency of buildings; and the calculation of energy efficiency of buildings by means of their passporting; and the identification of actual energy efficiency indicators by means of certification. The adoption of the bill will ensure that legal and organisational principles are regulated in the field of energy efficiency of buildings and that domestic legislation is brought into line with EU legislation. Dear National Deputies! This law has been created on the basis of this Directive. When we reported this law to the committees, the question arose that the law introduced certification, and that could be misuse of certification. But if we take this EU Directive, Article 11, it is in the EU Directive that the concept of certification is defined and when this law is written, this article 11 of the EU Directive is clearly copied. Therefore, certification is like a medicine that can be either mutilated or cured. The law therefore states that the manner in which this certification is carried out determines the Kabmin, that is, it is simply necessary to create certification by Kabmin, which will not allow abuse on this side. That's the main question that was before this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give us a co-reporter: Deputy Chief of Staff, Babak Alona Valeriyovn. Please, Alona Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u156	Deputies! The Committee on Urban Construction and Housing at its meeting on 24 December 2014 considered a bill on the energy efficiency of buildings under registration number 1566 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management believes that the project can be taken as a basis and has made specific comments that will be taken into account in the work of the project. During the discussion of the project at the meeting of the committee, it was noted that section 5 "Energy efficiency of buildings" is essentially declarant and requires substantial development, particularly in the definition of specific mechanisms and measures for achieving energy efficiency, as well as in the rules relating to sources of energy-efficient measures, safeguards and fund-raising. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption identified corruption factors in the project. Yes, the rights and responsibilities of individual workers in the field of energy efficiency are not clearly defined, and there are no specific provisions regarding the distribution of buildings by energy efficiency classes that create conditions for corruption. In view of the need to harmonize Ukraine's legislation with the European Union directives, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on energy efficiency of buildings (registration No. 1566). Please support the committee's recommendation and send a draft for the first reading to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Two-for-two- versus-need? Please sign up for two, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! It's not as simple a law as it might seem. If you read this law carefully, it may seem that even in the spring, Ukrainians think of one way to build a house with the greatest energy consumption. On the road to these bad dreams, therefore, an honest Ukrainian official should be the enemy. In order to be fully happy, Ukrainian citizens cannot afford hundreds of permits and approvals to build a new building, there is not enough at the construction stage to obtain a passport for the energy efficiency of buildings and at the point of entry into service to obtain a certificate of energy efficiency of the building. Moreover, a certificate of energy efficiency of buildings will now be required for the sale of a house now over 500 square feet [500 sq m]. That's where we have to start. It is clear that only relevant licensed entities are entitled to certification. It is clear that the rules for giving a certificate are given to the central authority of the executive branch. If anyone doesn't remember, I'd like to remind you, remember, there used to be a tender room for government purchases? This bill is trying to create a mini-tender room with all the benefits. So everyone who thinks they have one in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u159	Let me finish! Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u160	thinks that there are very few reasons for corruption in Ukraine I ask to vote in favour of this law, if in the hall, I am convinced by the majority, that the causes of corruption should be removed, please vote against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u161	By the way, I remember when he was considered in government, he was not in agreement with the government. I remember the whole story. And he didn't agree with the experts. Now I see that he has appeared. This, I think, is going to be the same. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Smudgey Grigory Mihaylovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u162	I mean, Vladimir Borisovich, how can such a document be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council? Who do they think we are? If it is a document today that is not ready, which is not a simplification in documentation that is practically today corrupt. I am deeply convinced that such a law cannot, a bill, be passed in this room. It must not be designed at all, but rejected as a bill. So please stand him up. Send him away immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u163	I'm proposing to the government to send it in the opposite direction and put a dot on that. Is there a need to discuss this? Guys, we're all in. Is there a discussion? Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u164	I ask you to pass the word to Alexia Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u165	Please, Alexei Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u166	Thank you. As head of the Energy Efficiency and Energy Subcommittee of the PEC Committee, I am very pleased that we are considering more energy efficiency bills. But we have to go to an acceptable drafting of this bill, which will be a transparent and market-based mechanism. If we are to integrate into Europe, we must follow the EU directives. If we are dealing with deregulation and the fight against corruption, we should not create excessive regulation of the activities of energy managers and energy audiences. So I'm proposing to reject or correct this non-working, to make a new pro-European quality bill that is very much in need of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u167	Energy efficiency in buildings is needed. But in this way? Well, that's easy. Oleg Beresuk. Please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u168	Political. The political party's self-help faction is asking to support the drafter's return to work on this bill. And then when. When it's a serious document, we're ready to support it. With your permission, I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to look at what's going on around the Donetsk airport right now, and I'm going to ask the Chief of Staff, the Defense Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Anti-Terrorism Center to immediately influence what's going on there, and we need to maintain our territorial integrity and independence. Please, gentlemen, take up the affairs of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u169	Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u170	We have supported and voted in favour of the well-respected people of Ukraine, the distinguished peoples of Ukraine, who have provided for the transfer of permits to the GASA system on the ground. That was long overdue. But we strongly oppose the bill that is now being proposed to create another corrupt food: to introduce and issue more energy efficiency certificates. What I'm saying is that this idea is not new, it's been tried in the past Parliament. And I fought it last time. That's why it's pulling the same corruption system. So I want to say that in Europe all these issues with the issue of certificates are resolved by the designers at the design stage. It is necessary to do so through change. Amendments to DBNs. And that's how all of Europe works. In 2013, Ukraine rose to 8 places in the Doyle business by raising us from 134th to 41st in the construction sector. It was unprecedented. Therefore, I ask for a second reading, when the GASKAM bill is being considered, not to introduce any new systems for the issuance of documents to the first, second and third levels. Let it be the same declarative principle. This is entirely in line with Europe. It is not possible to create new corrupt feeds under European slogans and break even what has been good done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, I think we can vote. Take it back to the government, to the developer. I'm betting on the vote, please support the manufacturer's return to processing. Back to the developer, please put it to the vote. On the return to development by developer 1566. [[13:34:14]] For 229 Thank you, Your Honor. Next law (registration number 1310, 1310-1, 1310-2) draft Act amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. I also propose a procedure for consideration. Do you have any suggestions for procedures? Please, National Deputy Rizanenko. I said National Deputy Rizanenko, then Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u172	People's Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction. As for the bill, there is a next proposal. Bill 1296 on the reduction of the quorum from 60 percent to 50 percent was registered to deputies from the Petra Poroshenko Flock faction on December 8th last year. Unfortunately, by some miracle, I'm paying attention to the board's leadership, it wasn't exactly included. Although Bills 1310, 1310-1 and 1310-2 are alternatives to the bill as they were later introduced. So it's suggested that Bill 1296 be included in the agenda and considered now and put 1310, 1310-1 and 1310-2 as alternatives to it, to look after it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u173	If possible, while we're talking now, please write down how we can do it under the Rules and I will do it. Dear colleagues, please, Eugene Geller. But before that, after Geller's speech, I'm going to put to the vote a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, we have three bills that have not yet been heard by the committee. The chair of the committee is present, and I think we should give him the floor and tell him why this has happened? That's the first one. Secondly, two of the three bills do not contain the conclusion of the Supreme Council plus there is no conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Committee. I therefore request that the Rules be complied with at first and that the Committee consider sending it to the Committee. And I ask you to give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Ivanchuku, to let him know why he didn't have it all on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, during the report, will be the position of the committee and all others. But there is one position that is important, this is the question of colleague Rizanenko, his law has exactly the same status as 1310-1, 1310-2 and was registered in Parliament. So we're the only thing we can do right now is put it to the vote to include it too. Why not? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u176	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I ask you to address what is now happening in the Supreme Council. The bill that we're trying to consider right now is state property, so that the state will own it. We are told today that disability benefits must be taken away, free passages, free feeding for children in schools, and government multibillion dollars of property are used by oligarchs. And what we're seeing right now is nothing more than trying to shut down the bill so that the state still doesn't have the opportunity to use this property, to get revenue into the budget, but the oligarchs to charge their pockets. So I address the Head of the Supreme Council as we have agreed on a coalition council, start reviewing the laws and let's make a decision. The Radical Party faction - I hope that all the other fellow MPs who have come to Parliament do not protect the oligarchs, but the state insists on protecting the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor. I want everyone to be tolerant of each other, first of all. The second position, I'm going to put it right over here for consideration of the reduced procedure, is that we're going to talk about what we're going to consider as a simplified procedure. But since Bills 1310, 1310-1 and two do not have the committee's conclusion either, I would suggest there's a proposal, colleagues, you don't have to create an artificial problem here. Now let's put it to a vote if it gets 226 -- let's look at it, not dial it -- we won't, but we'll be the first to look at 1310. What is the problem? You're wasting your votes here. So, dear colleagues, I don't see any problems in this, and that's normal for colleagues. I'm voting. Attention, attention! – I put to the vote a bill (registration number 1296) to include it in the schedule of meetings as an alternative to the laws that are. And Parliament will determine that. Please prepare and vote, Your Honor, to include in the schedule. If he dials 226, he'll be on, and we'll be all with you during the review. It won't be included, so it won't. Please identify whether to include 1310 in the schedule and consider it in conjunction with Law 1310 as an alternative. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:29]] For-138 He didn't. Second position. In summary, I am voting on these bills under reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:40:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Now, dear fellows. Look, I would ask everyone to calm down, everything will be in accordance with the Rules, everyone will be able to speak up, say all their positions. First Law 1310. And he's the reporter for Halasyuk Victor. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich. Please report. Then Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna. Then Derevyanko Yuri Bogdanovich. And then the national deputy Rizanenko. Then the committee. And then two for, two for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u178	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Respectable citizens! I want to tell you that this bill that we're looking at right now is, in large accounts, a revolution in ownership of government. Before the New Year, Parliament voted on a revolutionary bill to reduce the only social contribution. That's the same thing. What is the situation in the country today? We have state property for billions, billions and billions. And today, for example, the state, with 50 percent of its shareholding in state property, really cannot manage it, because it takes 60 percent plus one vote to make a decision. And we have a situation. At the assembly, yes. I need 60 plus one vote. And there's a situation where the nominal state is owned and the actual state property is used by the oligarchs. People good, you ask, where do the oligarchs come from? And that's where they come from: government property, stolen property, torn apart, stretched out. We're told to stretch our belts today, we're told there's no money in the budget, we're told that we should suffer. Yes, why should the State not defend its interests when it comes to its property? Why should oligarchs use government property and put billions in their pockets?Oh, my God! And the government's spending has to be paid by simple peasants, budget workers and other socially vulnerable categories of citizens. So my bill proposes to lower the quorum for decision-making in a part where there is state ownership in stockholder societies to 50 percent plus one vote. This will enable the state to manage its assets, including billions of assets made on this property, to target the state budget. Then you don't have to raise taxes, then you don't have to rob people. The oligarchs must be taken! And those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u179	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u180	I want to. I know the good people who are now walking around the hall, and how everything is done to stop the consideration of this bill. Governments, all governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u181	Let me finish, 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u182	It's not 10, it's what it takes! In 20 years of independence, governments have tried, every government, to solve this problem. And no one could solve it for one reason, because the oligarchs lobbyed their interests in Parliament. Here is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u183	So I've given it to you twice. Finish it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u184	So, Vladimir Borisovich, not funny!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u186	That's why we're here. You see, even the oligarchs are running microphones. They won't say a word!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u187	Where did you see the oligarch, Oleg Valeriyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u188	He's sitting!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u189	I thought you were looking in the mirror.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u190	So, honourable fellow MPs, today it's a test: either we serve the people, or we serve the oligarchs. All who do not vote for the State to manage their property are serving the oligarchs. All those who support our bill are those who deserve to be in this room and represent the interests of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u191	Give me 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u192	Vladimir Borisovich Groysman asked me to apologize for calling him an oligarch. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. He's just standing by the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u193	Oleg Valeriyovich, you were just standing next to me. If you're an oligarch, I'm beginning to envy you a little bit. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. National MP Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! After such a brilliant performance by our colleague, it is usually difficult to add something. But I'll try anyway. First of all, let's start with the words in the Holy Scriptures: "Let your words be yes or no, and all that else is from the wicked one." We signed the Coalition Agreement with you, in which we stated that we should reduce the quorum to 50 percent. That's true. Moreover, you and I have determined where we are going, namely, to Europe and Europe. And according to the regulation of the European Union, there is a clearly defined quorum, which is at least half of the members, i.e. 50 percent and more. And what's more, when you and I looked at and accepted the 2015 budget, we've also laid down about 2 billion dollars to be budgeted by a state-controlled company. And we're talking to you directly about Naftogaz and Ukrnafta, which belongs to her. We're talking about almost 2 billion dollars. Then, when you and I were looking at spending, cutting the cost of hundreds of millions per teacher, children and so on, let's be honest. That's why when we talked about what we were going to do with our bill, we thought. We thought, because we know that we have to follow the Constitution in addition to our conscience. The Constitution clearly sets out the following: the principle of equality. And we can't have a separate company with you, where the shareholders are the state, and the shareholders are the others. That's why we proposed our version of the bill. Nevertheless, we decided to take it off. 1310-1 is subtracted from the proposal to make an appropriate change, add to the Radical Party Bill the following to the stockholders' societies where.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u195	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u196	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u197	I can now let everyone finish three times ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u198	Oh! Great! Let us go back to the principle of justice. So our proposal is that in stockholder societies, where there is no share of the state, this rule should be established 10 years after it is adopted. This is our proposal, we'd like it to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u199	Thank you, Victoria Mikhailna. Please, National Deputy Derevyanko Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u200	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! It's really no exaggeration now, it's going to be a test on who we swore to in the Supreme Council. Or we in the Supreme Council have sworn an oath to the people of Ukraine, and we will now defend the interests of the people of Ukraine. Because in 23 years of independence, our legislation was built so that in order to be a quorum in any stock company, including in that stock company, the majority of the 50+1 shares owned by the state, it would take 60+1 shares to conduct the quorum. This means that, over the past 23 years, large companies, stockholders, where oligarchs have managed to buy 40+1 shares, have blocked the day-to-day review, the stockholders’ congregations, and the issue of dividends. Today, the total amount of such dividends is over 2 billion dollars that our budget should receive. Today, when we practically destroyed rural and rural councils because of those passed laws, which were the total amount of money needed to function, is about 4.6 billion dollars, this bill is urgent and important. This bill, which Mr. Lazko proposed, as well as the bill that I proposed, along with my fellow national deputy Irina Suslov, takes this rule into account and lowers the rate to 50+1 shares, 50+1 votes. Our bill as an alternative predicts that not only stock companies, where there is a part of the state, but all stock companies will be considered competent when 50+1 shares are present on the quorum. I propose to support Mr. Lášk's bill for those people's deputies who think that the rule should only be left behind those shareholders with more than 50 percent of the state's share. Or to support, including our bill, where this rule is equally taken into account and distributed to a wider range of shareholders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u201	Give the people's deputy, for justice's sake, 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u202	Three times ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u203	Three times ten, if you like. Three times ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u204	In addition, our law provides for a simplified system of dividend payments because existing legislation provides for the payment of dividends first by recalculating the central depository of securities and later by shareholders. So we now propose that we all vote together either in favour of our colleague Láška's bill or in favour of our bill by Irina Suslova, and that we support this standard in order to lower the end-of-the-end to 50 percent of one share, and pay off.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u205	Second time 10 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u206	Well, Your Honor, I ask you to support and demonstrate to whom we have sworn here from the high court of the Supreme Council by entering and acquiring the authority of the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u207	Thank you. Please, committee head Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich. Please come to the rostrum. And then there'll be two for, two for against, and those who didn't take part in the discussion will take a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u208	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! First, I would like to answer a question that was addressed, why there are no committee conclusions. These are the bills: three, which are alternate and one colleagues, they're on the committee's review of economic policy, but we didn't get the conclusions of an anti-corruption committee, the GNEU conclusions and the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the Rules, we did not consider them at our committee meeting. And I don't understand why we're breaking the rules? But if there is such political will, I would like to point out. We believe that the first reading should be supported as a basis for the second reading of the Devyanka bill. It distributes the decline of the quorum, not selectively, but entirely for all forms of ownership. The second question. It is broader and will allow you to make changes to second reading, to solve more problems that are now faced with shareholders. If we're talking about European practice. We don't have stock agreements, we don't have minority shareholders rights. We have to solve all these things in a complex way. Therefore, if we are already going to break the Rules, Mr. Head, without the committee's consideration, we are starting to consider the bills in the Hall, we need to take a broader bill and work on it in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u209	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. We have two to go, two to go. Please sign in: two for, two against. Sign up, two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko, Radical Party. Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u210	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, how much education does it take to understand that 60 and 50 are two digits, one is larger, the other is smaller. Who of us has not engaged in entrepreneurial activities, and does he not know or remember how congregations are conducted? There is only a change to one norm, a change in the number of members of the general congregations who make decisions. And in order for this decision to be made, with regard to an enterprise that has a public share of property, it is proposed to change it to 50 percent. So the state decides what to do with dividends, what to do with property. And an oligarch, who has 41 percent, rents an enterprise, does not go to the congregations, and for years the issue has not been resolved. There is no budgeting; there is no principle that the state is in charge of its property. And we're talking about where to take money on pensions, where to take money on a free trip, where to take the money to pay teachers, doctors, and so on. Shame on us if we don't now vote on this law. At the end of that financial year, stockholders will meet in the first quarter. If we now push this bill through the committees, it is said, that no decisions will be made after the results of last 2014 and we will not get anything out of it. I'm asking everyone to vote for Oleg Lacha's bill. It is he who will bring about the order of this kingdom, and it is he who will enable the State itself, the people of Ukraine, to rule the nation’s property and to use the assets, profits from the activities of state enterprises, enterprises with a public share in behalf of the people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u211	Next Oleg Barna, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u212	I give the floor to Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u213	Rizanenko, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u214	Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction. Two moments. First. I wanted to draw your attention to what happened when we voted for the inclusion of Bill 1296 in the agenda. Dear colleagues, those who have not voted, I do not want you to find yourself in the same situation as I, the author of this bill. When you submit a bill, other bills are passed similarly, and your bill is not even included in the agenda. I want to pay attention to the Head of the Council. The staff of the Council’s Apparatus have been asked not to repeat this situation in the future. As to the substance of the bill itself. There are two choices: one is that Mr. Laska, my original, which was given first, reduced the flat quorum from 60 percent to 50 percent for all companies. I note that Mr. Laschka's bill is only lowering the bill for companies with 50 percent or more of the state's share. You're actually great, those who were in business, you realize that 50, 60 percent is not the problem, the problem of abuse of rights. There are shareholders who abuse their rights and block the holding of shareholder congregations. The proposal of reality to support a bill that does not discriminate in the form of property, the law should be for all shareholders one regardless of whether it is state, municipal, cooperative property, municipal property. So the proposal is to support a bill that reduces the quorum from 60 to 50 percent for all companies. I agree with the argument that there must be some transition period. It's been said here for, like, 10 years, it's too much. You can predict a transitional situation where, for companies, stock companies, where there is no State, this law will take effect as of January 1, 2016, for example. And give a year for shareholders to adapt. Therefore, the proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading and to amend it, or to present it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u215	Holy right three times 10 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u216	So the proposal either now make this right out of the voice here in the room, or adopt the law in the first reading and process it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u217	Thank you. Next, please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, let's stop playing. There will be a moment of truth. And now who's going to explain to us that we can't vote that the state share should be controlled by the state 50 plus one percent, is actually going to do everything we can to break this vote. We have neither the first nor the second reading. We have a moment of truth now. As an alternative to the compromise offered by Self-Help, as an option proposed by Self-Help. And it's going to be the next one if you want the money to come into the budget. And the multibillion dollars that all these years have been being cut off from the government budget by government property. And those who are now yelling about the budget, count how much government property has gone left in the pockets of private companies. And then it'll be your responsibility for the budget, where you take money for teachers and doctors. And then there's no question in this session room why you have to limit payment to a teacher or a doctor. That's why our proposal is next. If the author of the Lashko bill agrees, the self-help amendment. We're voting in the first reading and in general with the self-help amendment, and we're closing this question. In this way, we will resolve this issue once and for all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mikhailo Papiev, the opposition block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u220	Please hand over the MP to Voropeyevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u221	MP Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, I have been observing this process since 2006 in different variations, and the same people are first in favour of lowering the quorum and then in opposition. World statistics, to your attention, say that at present the only country in the world where there is a quorum at 60 plus one action is Ukraine, there is no such country in the world anymore. There is 25 per cent, there is 40 per cent, there is 50 per cent, and there is only one Ukraine. That's the first one. We're going to Europe, I'm going to take two hands, take the European rule, and here, that's the first. Second. How do you propose to wait 10 years for the other shareholders, the other shareholders? Are you going to reform the economy in 10 years or what? That's the second one. And third. You don't think they're trying to trick you right now. If you adopt a law only for state-owned societies, in violation of article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which expressly states that all forms of property are equal before the law and cannot be distinguished, then by adopting such a law, you give an additional instrument, a toy to individuals who are against the law: to go to the Constitutional Court and declare it invalid. We therefore propose to support the Láško Bill in its first reading and in general to bring it into law that the Act applies to all shareholders, regardless of its type and its form of action. If you think a transitional period is necessary, let's introduce it as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u223	Look, it's so interesting to see when they're showing it like this, and they're showing it like this, and someone's showing it like this. Friends are the law. Okay, I get it. Let's sit, let's sit, no, colleagues, look, colleagues. National MP Rizanenko. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! You calm down, please, and we're continuing our work now. Once again, calm down, please, and we will be. We have a representative of the government of Tevelov Dmitry Mikolaiovich, head of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u224	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The National Securities Commission reviewed all these bills and drew expert conclusions from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development, and the Supreme Council. The conclusion of the National Commission is that we generally support Mr. Laska's bill, but we have this observation. Article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that "the state guarantees the protection of the rights of all subjects of property rights and management, and the social orientation of the economy. All property rights are equal before the law. ” That's how. [[Applause]] The amendments proposed by the bill run counter to the Constitution in some way. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to provide for the introduction of a reduction in the quorum plan for holding general meetings of shareholders from 60 to 50 percent of voting shares for all shareholders regardless of the state. If a proposal for a transitional period has now been made, it may be necessary, but the transitional period may be short for shareholders to be able to make the first such general meetings and agree on future changes and make appropriate changes to the charters of these shareholders. Thus, the National Commission's proposal is to support Mr. Lachak's bill, but to allow the quorum to be set for 50 percent of all shareholders regardless of the form of ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u225	But for the private, I understand, two years. One minute! One minute! One minute! Colleagues, I have to announce the continuation of the session. Two hours. For 15 minutes I have the right to do this. At 15. Who else would like to make a statement? Irina Heratschenko, please. Irina Heratchenko. Two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that on the Committee on European Integration we have considered these three bills. In fact, in the session room we have to talk not only about regulating our legislation to Ukrainian needs but also about meeting European standards. And it was self-help that raised the question that the relevant issues were governed by article 50 of the Council's Rules. And that's why we're proposing to support the self-help proposal, which is to say that the quorum is at least half of the voting rights that should be present or represented, that is, 50 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u227	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko. Then the closing word Oleg Lazko as the author. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u228	Thank you. Levchenko, "Freedom", city of Kiev. You know, I'd just like to go to the deputies right now not so much as to go to our audiences and listeners, and figure out a little bit about what's going on in our session room right now. We have several oligarchs that affect state companies: they have more than 40 percent or 40 percent of the shares in these companies. There's no quorum, they're holding their managers, and that's how they make money, where they steal billions of money. It is now proposed to change only for state companies, not for all other companies. If the law is adopted in this way, these oligarchs will be referred to the Constitutional Court tomorrow and will repeal this law. That's what's going on right now in this session room! So I encourage MPs to vote not just for state companies, but for all companies at once, because otherwise, it's just a treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u229	As far as I could tell, everyone had the same position. Borislav Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u230	Borislav Bereza, non-factional. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm going to beg you very much to vote for the law. As amended, whether or not I don't know, I'm on the phone with all the phones from Donetsk Airport. It's a hell of a situation. The boys are being destroyed, they're being destroyed. And if we do nothing, we will have no protector there today after the fifth. That's a very big question. If you don't know, look what's going on. And that's why I understand you, I understand everyone. Let's vote for this bill. Actually, with the self-help repairs. And after that, we're immediately doing what we're doing to save our heroes who are now at Donetsk Airport! [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u231	We're going to vote now, I'm going to contact the Secretary of Defense. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u232	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! As the author of the bill, I want to say before. Borislav, please! I was listening when you spoke. Before we go to the vote, I ask the head of the Supreme Council to immediately contact the President, the Secretary of Defense. Obviously, both the President and the Secretary of Defense are already taking all measures to save our defenders. But find out the situation and inform Parliament what is being done to protect our people, our defenders of the country. We will be very grateful for that. As far as this bill is concerned. As a result of the discussion and the heated discussion that has arisen here, I am pleased with all the colleagues who have joined this debate, and we propose, Mr. Head, to put this bill on the ground and in general (1310), taking into account the suggestions made by my colleague Vojcitsky, taking into account the proposals made by the government, the head of the National Commission, taking into account the suggestions made by his colleague. And this is how you put it: for the stockholder.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u233	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u234	Shareholders' associations, where they are state ownership, have become effective since publication; for all other shareholders, this law has become effective since 1 January 2016. So we give 1 year to get all the other stock companies to match their documents. Two? Why two? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, let's do this. One says two, one says one. Let's do it as a result of the vote that he's going to take. I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to make these proposals. Thank you. Please support this important one. Make it two, I don't mind. Whoever the Hall supports, so be it. I don't have a private business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m0.u235	I understand it's until January 1st, 16th -- that's the first offer. January 1st, 16th. I'll put it to a vote, we won't take it, we'll put it again. Colleagues that you are. I bet you'd better get ready. – I am putting to the vote (registration No. 1310) a bill amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations, as amended, was announced by Oleg Lazko, where it is stipulated that for private societies – by 1 January 2016. enters into force on 1 January 2016. And for the public, from the moment of adoption. [[B in m in s a l in]] Right? Not state, not state. Where there is no part of the state, that's right. Where there is no part of the state, it enters into force on January 1, 2016. With this right. On the basis and in general. I'll bet you a vote. On the basis and in general. January 1st, 16th. He won't vote, it'll be the 17th. January 1st, 16th. [[14:12:58]] For 230 Decision taken. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Dear colleagues! Using my right (1310 voted), I have to go now to find out what's going on at Donetsk Airport, and I'm calling a break until 4:00, and thank you all. I'll call it a break in 16 hours.
