ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Dear friends! We have traditionally been brought into the Hall of Bethlehem by members of the Scouts' Plast, the Platons. I hope his light and warmth will give us more power in the hall to make important and governmental decisions. Let's say hello to the sheet. [[Applause]] Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! My name is Andrew Luzan. I came here today with my plastic friends with the Bethlehem Fire of Peace. This is not the first time that we have passed the Bethlehem Fire of Peace on to the people’s deputies. The story of fire is that each year before Christmas this lamp is symbolic of the birth of Jesus Christ in Bethlehem and then of such a world scout initiative is passed on from hand to hand, spreading around the world. We have been supporting this tradition for over 20 years as Ukrainian Girl Scouts, and today we want to convey this fire to you so that the symbol of peace, the symbol of good and light from Bethlehem can help you in your important activities, inspire you with only good and right solutions for our country, help us all in this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u3	Thank you, boys and girls. I had the honor of being one of the founders of Plast. And I wish you both success and more good, to raise Ukraine's great and powerful patriots more. And by the plastic custom, "SCOB!" Thank you, guys. Dear colleagues! Each of the deputies will be able to take the Bethlehem fire and bring it home. We have such a tradition that we pass the Bethlehem Fire from family to family. And each of you will be able to light his candle and take home to his children, to his family the Bethlehem Fire, he will be here with us all day. During the break or after the end, you can light your candle and bring your light to your home. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. Please prepare for registration. Please come in and take your jobs. Please prepare for registration. And, fellow MPs, please register and register. Please enable the login system. [[10:06:22]] There were 333 deputies registered, and I declare open the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, statements, reports. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording so there won't be any complaints that I haven't. Prepared? Yeah? So please record the performance. Please turn on the writing system. Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, "Block of Petra Poroshenko". Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Alexia Musaka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Alexi Muschak, Peter Dustenka Block, Interfractional European Optimist Union. This week, we're going to have to vote for the budget. As a result, I want to clarify the position of the Eurooptimists interfractional association on the government's budget and activities. The first position is that budget voting is one of the most important documents we accept in a year. In all European countries, let alone private companies, voting and budget voting, it takes 3-4 months at a minimum. The budget requirements of the country, one of the largest in Europe, which is Ukraine, especially during the war, should be even more severe. That's why we think it's unacceptable to repeat the last scenario when our state's budget was literally voted in one night. Position number two. The budget is not the IMF, it's not the government, it's not the Parliament, it's not the President. It's Ukrainian taxpayers' money. After the Dignity Revolution, our citizens deserved their money. effectively used their costs to make every article of the cost, it was clearly justified and literally defined to a coma. I want to remind you that according to this budget it's 674 billion dollars, it's actually a very serious figure. Position number three. We should also take into account the statements and positions of our foreign partners, including the IMF Fund, the International Monetary Fund. They say first of all about budget deficits and they don't regulate in any way when we have to accept it, it's meant to be, and in fact how the budget was to be budgeted. In this regard, our position is as follows: By the end of this year, let us vote on the budget in the first reading, where we fix the budget deficit, thereby meeting IMF requirements. And after the new year, in fact, we're going to go through a very professional and thorough budget process so that our nation gets a quality document that will set the pace and rhythm of life for 45 million people in our country. So only a quality product, just a well-founded and high-quality discussion, and only a new quality of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u6	Thank you. Korczyk Vitaly Andriyovich, "The People's Front", gives the word "Igor Guzu". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u7	Good afternoon, dear friends. Mr. Andrey, there's a big rally in front of the Supreme Council and a bunch of miners. I would very much like to turn on the sound so that they can hear, because people come from all over the country, people are in pain, there are Volin miners. I'd very much like them to hear what's going on in our room. Actually, I want to say about miners, maybe someone realizes that I speak too often about it. There can't be an argument like that, because in my constituency there's a city in Novovolinsk, a mining town that, unfortunately, I'm sorry to talk about it, but in 2016 there might be no functioning mine. In the 2016 budget, Mr. Demchisin did not include the financing of a single mine that is being built in a country called the 10th Mine. What's the big deal? The shaft has been built for more than 25 years. Last year, you and I put 200 million dollars into it. And in 2016, the mine is not closed, it's under what's called conservation. I mean, basically, the mine is in danger of being shut down. The only mine in the country that's ever been built. That's not right. That's not fair. I think from the point of view of strategic and energy independence in our country, that's a priority. That's why I'm asking the government, directly from the profile minister Demchikin, to find an opportunity to fund the tenth mine. One second. We have two more active mines in Novovolinsk – the first and the ninth. These mines are also closed in 2016. If they're shut down and run the 10th, the coal miners will go out. And then tomorrow, when I do hope that the tenth mine will open and start working where it's not clear that people are going to go to the street and people aren't going to find any more. So I ask very much that the Ministry, so that the government can find an opportunity, look at the situation not only from the point of view that there are no funds in the country, but deeper and further, and find the opportunity to finance the tenth mine and start it, if not in the following year, at the end or at the beginning of 2017 and allow it to work so far in the first and ninth mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, a respected chairman, a respected television player, are now undergoing a budgetary process. I want everyone to realize clearly that we don't have a problem, actually, with the budget itself. We have problems with budgeting laws. And first of all, it's a so-called tax reform that is not today agreed upon, and it has several key problems, but the main problem is the approach to reducing the burden on the payroll fund. I want to make it very clear to everyone that the format that's being proposed will not lead to an exit from the shadow of those who are now there. Neither the Tishniks nor the services, nor the trade below 40 percent will come out of the shadows. The big business will get a drop in the workload on the payroll fund. The Clean Hole in the Budget is 40 billion dollars due to this move. And the government is forced to attack all spheres active in our society. The agrarians were attacked, the entrepreneurs were attacked, the local self-governance was attacked, they were barely repelled. And here, thank you, Mr. Groissman, for taking the position of principle on this issue. Scientists were attacked. Not only are they attacking in financial positions but they are attacking non - financial positions. The Galuze Academy of Sciences is trying to subordinate. In the case of people with disabilities, a pile of money that does not carry a single penny is simply a storm to Ukrainian society. So today, a number of big companies, we've calculated, we're getting from one and a half billion extra profits this year. They get it when we're short 10.1 billion dollars. When the purchase of drugs lacks 4.5 billion dollars in this budget. When more than one billion are needed for our special services. When we have our MSS underfunded and one of the poorest, the ministry that is the poorest in the world when they charge cars for their money, when ambassadors are not appointed, because there is no money. And this is a huge part of our front. So the next proposal is to prepare the government's draft budget and make a minimum change on the old tax base, not as 240 pages of tax legislation again, tax changes. Continue the factor 0.4 experiment on the only social contribution that those who want to legalize, please increase their wages more than twice (and there are a number of criteria), get out of the shadows. And to do this is not an experiment, but to do this as a constant norm, and not to do a 0.6 coefficient for the whole country in 2016. Because big companies win, no one gets out of the shadows, and all society, all its active layers, is calculated. Please support this position, and it's consolidated to go out there and tell people that we're childish, but it's not going to go through that. We did an experiment in 2015, got less than 10 percent pregnant at 16 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u10	Please, 30, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u11	They didn't go at 16 percent. Now, do we think they're going to be 22 percent? They won't come out! And we're going to have an understatement with you from the childhood that's in the budget. And then in the summer, we're going to put all our taxes back together -- we're going to do business again. So it's impossible to do that -- it's not calculated. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u12	Thank you. Member Matthewnko conveys the word to Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u13	Dear voters, distinguished Ukrainians, respected colleagues! I just got back from Minsk, where the twentieth meeting of the tripartite contact group and working subgroups ended last year. And I would like to inform you, dear colleagues, of the results of our work that are extremely important to Ukraine. I want to thank, first of all, everyone in the session room who supported and by their important vote on the implementation of the Minsk Treaties and public support. Because it was extremely important for Ukraine. We see that the aggressor country violates the Minsk Accords every day and is controlled by the militants. The Minsk agreements are not executed by fighters, but they work. It's very symbolic that it was just yesterday that sanctions were announced against the aggressor country by the European Union and the United States of America. As the work of the Minsk groups continues, it depends on the decision of the 'normal format', because we are a derivative of the decision of the 'normal format'. And we hope to hear about this decision by the leaders of the Nordic format in the very next few days. But it's very important that the work of the groups has contributed to the disintegration of the Donbas conflict. Similarly, we can talk today about the relative mode of ceasefire. And the key decision yesterday was the agreement on the silence regime, starting tonight at the time of the festival, and every breach has to be fixed and the violator has to take full responsibility. It's just as important to me as a representative in the humanitarian subgroup that over the months we've been able to free about 50 of our hostages, 50 of our happy families. Today, dear colleagues remain hostage for another 140 Ukrainians, and the work they do after their release is very difficult. Regrettably, fighters are artificially trying to underestimate the number of Ukrainian citizens who are in the hostages, making other conditions unacceptable. But we are working on getting positive news about liberation by the beginning of the New Year. And I want you to know that at all the meetings we raise questions about the release of the nine Ukrainians who are currently in the prisons of the Russian Federation, including our colleague Nadia Savchenko. Similarly, we raise questions about the admission of the International Red Cross and the prisons of the Russian Federation, where these prisoners are being held and occupied. And this was yesterday's first meeting of our group, together with representatives of the International Red Cross, and we got this kind of promise from some of the districts there. To allow representatives of the International Red Cross to prisons where our hostages are being held today. This is very important to prevent torture and not legal methods. Similarly, we began work to find missing persons. There are 762 Ukrainians on the list of missing missing persons today, and after we passed these lists to the International Red Cross, the work collapsed. Yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u14	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u15	Yesterday, it's like we got the first information about what was installed, but we'll check every last name. Because it's a very serious question, the fate of about 60 of these citizens, we're still looking for 700 people. It's also very important that it's exchange. We were able to agree on 12 of the first such objects of exchange. On four, this work began. I thank you all very much for supporting the Minsk Process with the realization that it brings peace to Ukraine. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u17	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people." It's just me. citizens, colleagues, I want to tell a simple Ukrainian that we've been offered a government, what this budget is. It's a fiscal budget, a sudden fiscal that's robbing us. The Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation, have entrusted the government with our farm complex to manage it effectively. Instead, we see that he is simply burying what he has been given in office. And when he lacks the money that his fiscal is robbing him, he then puts the rest of what's left to sell. Well, let's just say he's giving us a budget right now. So in the form that the government has given us the budget, the "will of the people" group will not vote. That's the first one. The other one. There's a general sitting in the government's bed, I'll say, this general was the former head of the GSP. He was cracking a cut of military equipment, and I was personally giving him data on who cut, like a cut, and giving video. To this day, there is no answer. So I want to go to the military prosecutor from this rostrum -- let them count my MP's request, let them check this general's work -- because instead of this general being punished, he was promoted, he changed Mehed, who stole humanitarian aid from the front desk, and promoted him. And so are all the general brothers from the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u18	Thank you. Fir's Yegor Pavlovich, Peter Prashenko's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u19	Respectable colleagues, respected Vice-Speaker, spent more than 7 hours yesterday in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, testifying in the case of Gennadia Corban. Indeed, the Public Prosecutor's Office is very scrupulous in investigating this case, but at the same time, we do not see any challenges to the Attorney General's Office, Bondarenko, Boyko, Vilkula, the Doñek Separatists. I don't understand why the same intensity is not investigated in the case of FMCT-Nafti, the "brilliant prosecutors", the Donne Separatists, and the international offshore companies. I am convinced that we have before us the fact of electoral justice. And as long as we don't figure it out, Parliament won't go far. I demand to investigate not only policies that do not share that power, but I also demand to investigate the actions of the politicians who represent that authority. Colleges, it is time to put an end, finally, to the actions of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to dismiss the prosecutor Shokin, who will disgrace the country and “crush” the actions of corruptionists and separatists. Finally, I would like to announce that an anti-corruption forum is being held today at 5 p.m. All MPs who are willing to fight corruption are invited to this event. I am confident that there will be real facts, problems, real names of corrupts at this event, and only in this way will we be able to draw public attention and authorities to investigate real criminal cases and the public. I am convinced, and I very much hope that after this forum, the law enforcement authorities will conduct dozens and perhaps hundreds of criminal cases that will be brought to a close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u20	Thank you. Oleg Medunica, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable tellers! In Odessa, the fight against corruption has come to an end, and today Georgian reformers are starting a new practice of dirty allowances for government officials. The Georgian hacker group, Hinkali, found that about 70 government officials receive monthly “black” allowances. On the list. All salary officials from $442 to $2,000 377 a month are paid loyal to the Georgian team by officials. And today, it's become more clear that the total payment is already $80,000. $400. And that gets the tenth echelon of officials. What does the first echelon get? What's Saquarelidze, Nishanidze, Lordcipanidze, Rubashvili, Adeishvili, Chintaladze? What do they get?Oh, my God! How does a reformer have $80,000? From where? Is this an example of a governor for entrepreneurs, or is this a budget fill? Or maybe it's a tax return? There is a banal care against tax and corruption. And I'm going to hand over today a list of all the names of the officials who took that dirty money. Moreover, this money is distributed at the administrative centre which. A month's rent for an area of $200,000 when we have a ready-made renovated building that costs one bracelet a year! $200,000 or one bracelet a year! Moreover, it became clear where the money was coming from. I have in my hands a letter from the trust fund signed by the governor's advisor from the press of this fund, which reads, "Please consider providing assistance in the amount of 1 million grevens", to the CEO of Delta Wilmar. He's been helping out a million bracelets. Here is a letter: “A request for assistance of 2 and a half million bracelets”. Then there were 5 million bracelets. I'm asking. Saakashvili says it's bullshit. Maybe it's my seal. Maybe it's the seal of my fund. Maybe it's my advisor's signature. It's bullshit in Georgia, and in Ukraine it's called corruption, extortion and racketeering. What anti-corruption forum will you hold? What are you going to talk about? How to rent a building for $200,000 and get 90 percent off. Or how to steal money from a charity? Or how to bring a song for the money of the Ukrainian army? It can be noted that the Georgian Mouse is continuing the case of the Japanese Mouse. He's the only one who put it all on the new state rails. And it is the case of the State to eliminate this gang with forced deportation to Rodin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u22	He's handing over his speech to Chubarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u23	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We should thank all our international partners for their constant help in the face of Russian aggression. So we thank the leaders of the countries of the European Union for their decision to continue for another six months the economic sanctions directed against Russian high-planters, businesses, banking institutions. A new United States sanctions list was also announced yesterday. The Russian political elite is not exaggerated in panic. Sanctions are playing a role, perhaps not as quickly as we would like, but the process of destroying Russia's economy is continuing in order to force it to return to international law. And now, dear colleagues, what are we doing in Ukraine, Ukrainians? I have contract number 28 in my hands from December 29th, 14th, which is the contract that supplied electricity to Russia-occupied Crimea. I have two copies, and they're the same thing as the original ones. One is a subversive, he is a counterfeit, and the other is the one who was signed first. It goes here in 1.1, that we supply electricity to the Crimea Peninsula, and I read in the original language: "The ultimate users of the Crimea Federal District.".. The Ukrainian owners who signed this document are criminals, but that's not what I'm talking about. This agreement, it exists, runs until January 1, 2016. I want to warn the officials that any agreement signed with Moscow regarding the power supply to Russia-occupied Crimea, where it will not be stated that this is Ukrainian territory, that we are supplying electricity to the temporarily occupied Crimea, to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the city of Sevastopol, any treaty, if, God forbid, it will be signed, it will simply betray the position of Ukraine, it will be a national betrayal. I call on the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to consider these agreements on the situation that will take place as of 1 January 2016 in the area of electricity supply immediately at the meeting. I ask that I be invited to attend this meeting in order to get ahead of the new treachery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u24	Thank you. The People's Front is Igor Gus. People's Front! Igor Goose gives the word to someone?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u25	Yuri Timoshenko gives the floor. Please. From the rostrum or from the place, Mr. Yuri? From the rostrum. Please, Yuri Timoshenko to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Ukrainian people! Praise Jesus Christ! I listened last Thursday to all these speakers, who were like a tape that ate it, one by one, as if to order only what Arsenius Yatsenuk, Mrs. Jaresko, and the proposed changes to the Tax Code and the budget. And I wanted to, a simple old soldier, just ask them all. Gentlemen of the MPs, why are you not ashamed of why you came to this House, did you come to stand for the truth, what bitterness it would not be, or came for a sweet lie to play in this room in front of your electorate cheap spectacles just to please them? To listen to some of you, like you already love that people, and that Ukraine, wouldn't know you personally, would probably cry. And what's most interesting is that these angles on the left side start from me, the holiday guests of the parliament who appear in their workplaces only when, by script, their team is assigned to speak from the rostrum or on television. But if you really loved Ukraine, Mr. Critics, when you went even to this room, you wouldn't be standing on the market like this, breaking into piles like this now, and you didn't spend anecdotes on each other, turning, gently speaking, back to the government, the suburbs of the rostrum, when, again, softly, the backs of only a few meters behind this rostrum are presented by the Ukrainian Defense Minister with a report on the situation on the front, the problems and needs of the soldiers, the wounded and the families of the dead. You haven't even heard it. In all 10 minutes of his report, none of you have even turned to him because you have so much pain in both Ukraine and war, and the wounded and the dead. I hope I don't mind being so honest with each other right now. Because some of you gentlemen are talking about a war every night at restaurants and elite clubs, except that only when they accidentally bump into it by switching on TV screens. And probably that's why none of you on Thursday and let it be a shame to mention that there's been a war in Ukraine for almost two years. None of you asked Jaresko or Yatsenuk, but how did you manage to keep the economy of the warring Ukraine in your hands at a time when 20 percent remained in occupied territory?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u27	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u28	With your worst budget in two years of war, to build a Ukrainian army is more than 20 years of peace. And that's why I want to ask you, not Yatsenuk, but you, critics, these regional misdemeanors that are sitting here no longer the first call. Why did you suddenly become so loving to ordinary people right now? Why they did not protect the common people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u29	Okay. Ten more seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u30	Two days.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u32	For two days, all 100 percent of the government spend hours an hour. Give me two minutes to answer them, please, one against all. Why, then, did they steal everything that was possible for themselves and not give a penny of what they stole from those poor people you loved so much now? Why didn't they build Ukraine then, but only by dancing under Yanukovich's whistle, forgive me for the word, and let Putina go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u33	Mr. Yuri, 30 seconds and complete, please. Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u34	So, critics, 30 seconds. You are not the wisest in this room. Me and the People's Front, and a lot of other sober politicians in this room, they didn't see you any worse, how raw and imperfect these changes were before the Tax Code and this budget was last Thursday. But without excessive and revealing hysteria, many better people in this room simply quietly rolled up their sleeves and got to work. And in less than a week, the proposed project is simply not recognized, for so far alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u35	Heroic glory! Thank you. The chariots pass on their word to Matthew. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u36	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, members of our faction have repeatedly discussed the inadequacy of drafting the laws and laws that we are enacting in this Chamber. It has become a tradition when laws are passed from the knees, when rights are removed from the vote, by political relevance, by principle, and by the necessity of economic law. Imaginations of the mind. But unfortunately, after all this, people, our constituents, are suffering. We're only recently reminded of the situation when the nearest settlement of Sartan near Mariupol, the Old Crimea, was without pay, without pensions, because somewhere someone, someone, didn't look. Now, here's another news. In Donetsk and Lugansk region, after the local elections, the new councils faced a very difficult situation. And in these regions, it is very difficult to carry out and carry out work today. The reason is simple, the Law on Temporary Measures for the ATO period, this law, in particular, prohibits the replacement of business managers, and prohibits the exemption of land and utilities tax. A year after the adoption of the Act, they prepared a list of the objects that are included or the cities that are included in the Act. Towns such as Mariupol, Kramatorsk, Artemovsk, Djerjinsk entered. Imagine not even the military-civil administration that should have, I think, followed the case. And the Cabinet of Ministers did not ask itself: but, as in these regions, by virtue of this law, people will be operating. How small business works at a time when it needs to be given a hand today, on the contrary, such a situation is critical, it is indeed in a critical situation, we have blocked the work just in this situation. Local advice. Today, they have such serious responsibilities as payments, utility payments, electricity charges, water charges, and they need to be cleaned up, looking for every penny. Today they can't change the head of the hydro channel, they can't change the head of the hotline because we've blocked those actions by the rules of the law. In addition, the budgets of these cities will not receive a huge amount of land rental. For example, there is only one city in Mariupol — 370 million — think for a minute, 370 million will be short of funds. And by what means will we compensate these councils here and now, from the locations, from the general budget? Therefore, we have turned to the Cabinet of Ministers. The situation is indeed an emergency, and a meeting must be held urgently and a decision must be taken. What do you have to decide? First. Distinguish the notion of ATO territories: to the zone of contact, to the area of central authority and where it is not implemented. Protective measures must be taken in accordance with this rule, which is the first. Second. Law 2235a must be adopted urgently. It will not solve all problems, but it is still a bill that has passed the Cabinet of Ministers and is blocking itself today - it is about registration of legal and natural persons. We need a budget compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u37	Please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u38	Above all, what is the reason for all these difficulties: let us work effectively on the laws, stop the practice of work on the knees, stop the practice of special consideration of laws. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, last performance. Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich "Block of Peter Poroshenko". We're running out of time, but I'll give another speech. The Vadatourian Andrew Alexiovich Musia gives the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u40	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I want to speak on behalf of the multi-thousand rally that's now under the walls of the Supreme Council and it's asking, and it's asking, and it's asking, over and over again, that we include sessions, broadcasts, so that people can hear or see whether their current issues are being considered in the session room. I want to go to the budget committee, because there's no point in talking to the government anymore. Because in that government budget project that we analyzed, the actual unprecedented destruction of all of Ukraine's energy, the unprecedented downturn of 40 percent of carbon financing, despite the fact that in the coalition agreement that our government is operating under, Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk's signature, it is clearly written down, annually, for five years, the financing of the coal sector by 20 percent. Instead, we see not only a decrease compared to the past year, but what we see is that no amount has been put in place to support the coal sector, no amount has been put in place to support our peat industry, which is in even greater poverty. So I have a question, and who cares about Ukraine's energy security? Dear National Deputies, I am addressing you, I am addressing all members of the Interfractional Union "Protecting the Coal Branch" if there is no support for the coal sector in the draft State Budget, which could lead us to what we had in 1990. You all remember the fall of the Soviet Union because of the protests of miners that began. Do we want the miners' protests to start again, and the same fate overtakes our Ukraine or what? Is the government not so considerate that it is consciously trying to destroy our nation? A figure of 5.5 billion dollars went to the budget committee on the proposals from our interfractional interfractional committee. In fact, our coal sector can be self-sacrifice, it needs only a little push to get us out of the energy fair that Ukraine is now in. So once again, I ask and urge those many thousands of miners who are under the Supreme Council to take into account the support of the coal sector in the next year’s budget. The miners also asked for more, and this address to the Head of the Supreme Council today to meet with the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine accordingly. And I think that Vladimir Borisovich will pass this request on to the miners, and this meeting will definitely take place today. Glory to Ukraine! Praise to the Ukrainian coal industry!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u41	Thank you. So the colleagues, the time allocated for the national MPs to make proposals, statements and messages, are exhausted. I want to inform you that there is now a meeting of all the heads, factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on today's agenda, on reconciliation of issues both on the Horn of Curve, and on the budget, and on tax reform. And they reported a common decision by all the leaders of groups and factions, a general decision: to announce a recess until 11:30. But at 11:30 a.m., everyone will be in the hall so that we can immediately go to the vote and make decisions. So, dear colleagues, I announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 11.30 p.m. and ask all deputies at 11.30 p.m. to be on the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, recess is over. I'm asking you to take up jobs, come into the hall. Our work will begin immediately with the vote, the inclusion in the agenda, the Curve Rig. And so I'm asking you to come into the hall, take jobs so that we can get ready for productive and efficient work right away. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Heads of factions, please invite members of the Chamber. The faction secretariat please inform the deputies of the beginning of work. Please come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u43	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We can continue our work. Another extremely responsible day. Once again, I want to apologize for the delays, the technical breaks, and this is all happening because of the need for consultations. I want to inform you that we're literally late in the evening and we're starting from a very light morning. We start consulting, work, and obviously there's less and less of a difference, and we're close to adopting the package of laws that are necessary for both the adoption of the budget and the continuation of our interaction with international financial organizations. I want to thank all my colleagues for their hard work and professional work in finding responsible compromise. Well, I think it's obvious to everyone that with their eyes closed, no one is going to support one or the other, but on the contrary, every decision has to be worked out in a way that is appropriate. So I urge all of us to continue our work. We're actually having a plenary day, tomorrow's plenary day, and I hope so. That we will ensure effective voting for the country's decisions. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, according to yesterday’s decision, we will today consider the issue of the Horn of Curve. Before that, we will vote on five questions to be included in the agenda so that we can continue to work, respectively, and committees to prepare meetings, and to form agendas. We're still going to the Horn of Curve. Along with the Horn of Curve, we will have two more laws to consider. Or one law initiated by the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. One minute, Oleg Berezuk. Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Mr. Head! As a key agreement has been reached on the consideration of the Law on the Horn of the Curve and two laws on parliamentary activity, the faction has now decided to reinstate the vote on the agenda, so that's what we're about to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u45	Thank you, fellows of honor! Then we'll give the committees a chance to work. Please take our seats, colleagues, and continue our voting work. The question of the inclusion of daily bills: 3564 (they are now given), 3657, 3465, 3689 and 3704 is the question of the Law on External Economic Activity (for granting the government authority to apply adequate economic measures to the aggressor State), you understand what this is about. And 3693 is the law that the Radical Party has prepared, and it's going to be related to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u46	[[From the Hall]] 3652.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u47	93.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u48	[[From the Hall]] And 3,700.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u49	3693. Right? Yeah. Colleagues! Please, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Please! Integrating these laws into the daytime order and moving on to the Horn of Curve. 3564, 3657, 3465, 3689, 3704 and 3693. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then 3,700 is in the order of the day session, but without the committee we won't be looking at it, it's clear to everyone. Right? And plus 3,700. It's in the order of the day session, but without a committee, we won't be looking at it. Please support such an offer. Take your seats and let's move on. vote. Ready? We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the laws that I have just announced. Entry into the agenda, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support everyone. Vote. Please support everyone. [[11:55:34]] For 222 My colleagues, once again, we're not all here. Please make an offer: All in the order of the day session, as agreed. I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. All colleagues, please stand by. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. All of it. Vote. Vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[11:56:11]] For 216 Okay. So, so, colleagues, 3564, 3657, 3465, 3689 and government 3704. What I said in my voice, I'm going to add them separately. Vote. These were the ones that were in order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] No 37th. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u50	For what is provided in the agenda, plus Laws 3693 and 3704. Vote. We're voting on my proposal now. Vote. [[11:57:00]] For 239. Decision taken. 239. Now, 3700. I'll explain. It's a day-to-day session, and it's a law prepared by five factions, signed by the leaders of five factions. We're turning it on, but we're not looking at it right now. Then he'll go to the committee. On the committee, everyone can express his or her position on this matter. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session and the dot. Then you'll decide on the vote. Please, 3700 is a day-to-day session only. 3700. 3700. It is signed by all factions, five factions. Vote? And we're going to the Horn of Curve. Vote. [[11:58:03]] For 186 That was a problem with him. So I'm asking 3,700 to separate us from the faction leaders who signed this bill, the bill, to consult on finding a common solution, please. Colleagues, therefore, we have decided with you to include in the agenda of the bill: 3564, 3657, 3465, 3689, 3693. 3693 we have to consider in conjunction with the Curve Rig Act, right? Then the proposal of 3,693 would be considered jointly during the decision-making process, during the consideration of the question of the Horn of the Curve. Vote? It's a question of the local deputies, there. 3693. There is a proposal for coalition factions to consider this issue in conjunction with the Curve Rig Act. 3693. Vote. Please support that 3693 be considered in the question box and made a decision on it, in the corner of questions on the Curved Horn. This is true of local deputies. Is it accepted? Vote. We just put him in the dayroom. There's already a committee on it. Vlasenko, Sergey Vlasenko will report. Vote. Vote. [[11:59:52]] For 211 Again. The minute is Sergei Vlasenko. One minute, explain what law 3693 is. Attention, listen up. We just put him in the dayroom.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u51	Fellow Members, 3693 is a bill that concerns only local deputies and the possibility of recalling those deputies who have been chosen by party lists by decision of the political party, if the MP has violated the party's statute and so on. So there are no problems or questions. We had the same. It doesn't apply to non-partisans. It doesn't apply to non-partisans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u52	Colleagues, then 3693, you heard, yes, what's the question? Are you ready to vote? To consider it in conjunction with the question of the Curved Horn. Just like we agreed last night, right? Vote? Vote? Please vote. It's just about the order of his consideration. Vote. [[12:01:24]] For 225 Fellows, once again, it's a question of looking at it in this block of issues and all, please support, we vote. I see. Vote. [[12:01:45]] For the 220. 3693 with the Horn of the Curve, shall we vote? Just calm down, a little quieter. Ready? We're voting 3693 to look at it in conjunction with the block. Vote. [[12:02:29]] For 228 You got it. You got it. 228. Thank you. Colleagues, please calm down. These were training ballots. And now we're starting to look at the questions on the Horn of the Curve. Question 3613, colleagues. Please, I think everyone needs to be reminded again. Oksana Siroid and then Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, Bill 3613 was considered and discussed at a Parliamentary meeting. And as you recall, he was sounding, and his new edition was resounded under the transcript. So this is about supporting Bill 3613 in an editorial that was delivered from the rostrum. I mean, with one. In fact, the difference between today's editions is that there is only one item in the bill in the body of the law, which refers to the appointment of consecutive elections of the city head of the Horn of Creature and the Transitional Positions. That's what I'm drawing your attention to. The law is edited under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Arseny Petrovich! Arseny Petrovich! Arseny Petrovich, we're glad to see you. Go back to the government's bed. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are you yelling at? It's okay, it's okay. So, dear colleagues, please take our seats. You and I are now discussing the question of the election of the Horn of Curve, draft law registration number 3613. Attention! Attention! Colleagues, now I'm going to call it by name, thank God, I know almost everyone's name. Please, we're taking our seats. And let's do it a little bit. Colleagues, Curly Horn. You heard the report by Oksana Ivanovna. Now Sergey Vlasenko is going to remind me of the mechanics. You don't have to? Committee head, please, Sergey Vlasenko. Please, Sergey Vlasenko. A reporter or a co-reporter will now provide information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u55	I want to remind you that the position of the committee, since we have considered this law, has already been expressed once, I can repeat it: the committee has not agreed on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u56	Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues, please. 3613 is the Ukrainian law of December 10, 2015, which was read under the transcript by Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. Please, there will be a signal vote now, colleagues. Signal vote. I ask everyone very calmly, calm down. Why didn't you talk to me, colleagues? One and a half hours were breaks, you talked to everyone, you spoke for 30 minutes. 30 minutes out of the rostrum. Please, colleagues, take your seats. 3613, we vote. Signal vote, get ready, colleagues, for the vote. Dear colleagues, national MPs! 3613 is the basis and we vote in general. Signal vote, we've got a vote! On the basis and in general, we vote. [[12:09:41]] For 229 On the basis and in general, we vote 3613. Vote. Vote. 3613 is the basis and we vote in general. [[12:10:02]] For 218. Stop! Stop! Stop! Please, what? Ruslan Knyazevich, please, a minute. Stay where you are. I have an offer: let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, that's the thing. I don't want to talk about the substance of the bill, but there are some very interesting things in the Transitional Positions. For some reason they decided, well, the logic is that this law will only work until a new city head is elected. For some reason, however, the Law on Local Elections has been amended, setting out specific procedures for handling complaints by election committees. I'm asking you not to touch the Local Elections Act. If that was the case, I think she was once. Now it's very dangerous to create such a precedent for perspective. And I would warn against this kind of practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u58	Ruslan Petrovich, please, this is a normal, reasonable offer. Please make this proposal, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, clearly under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u59	I'm asking you to delete the second part of "Finally" and "Transitional positions" as being allogeneic and contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u60	Thank you. 3613 for the return. Everybody take your seats, let's go back. 3613, there is a proposal to go back to the matter in order to consider it with the amendment of Kniazewicz. 3613 for the return. Vote. 3613, ready? In return, please vote. To return. [[12:11:41]] For 241 In the second reading and in general. in the first reading and in general, as amended by Ruslan Knazević, at the suggestion of Oksana Ivanovna Siroid, who was announced under the transcript of December 10, 2015. Right? Vote. [[12:12:16]] For 239. 239, law approved. Colleagues, 3693 -- draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! You didn't have to yell "Damn!" And you don't have to yell "Thank you!".. The MPs did what they thought was necessary. And I ask you just to be tolerant of the future. Thank you. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I took the floor just after the positive vote on the Horn of the Curve and would ask Mr. Yegor Soboljev to apologize to the Supreme Council for his unfounded and unacceptable words about protection. They're simple people who get much less wages and do their jobs. I think we need to find the strength to apologize to the common people you insulted in the fight for the Curve Rig.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u62	Thank you to Parliament for the decision on the Horn of the Curve, which restores a civilized, just outcome for these people. Yesterday’s emotions and indignation were precisely related to the fact that no part of the nation could give them a civilized one. A peaceful way out for these people. I was outraged by the situation when it was over. [[th m in s a l i]] When it's over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was outraged by the fact that because of poor governance the people who went through the war for independence were on the one hand against the people who went through the war for independence on the other hand. It's scary. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't threaten anyone with grenades! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm dealing with a huge one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think the shame was what happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u63	Yegor, you can apologize easily. Please, 30 minutes Egor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u64	I think the shame was that there was a forgery. I think the shame was that we didn't give people a chance for two months. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] And it is Parliament's decision that we have voted today that brings us back to a civilized path and tells people that there is no need for violence. I wasn't talking about threats. I've been talking about that ignoring people's rights is pushing the whole society for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u65	Turn off the microphone. Thank you. All of it. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u66	As for the state guards. Right after this story, I came to them, apologizing for my emotions. And along with them, he discussed that we are all on the same side -- on the side of a normal European state, to which Parliament has taken a big step today. And thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u67	I just want to say one thing, my dear fellows. I also want to apologize to everyone for sometimes using our status, not holding ourselves together, and embarrassing the entire Ukrainian Parliament, which, in such difficult circumstances, makes the necessary decisions for our country. So I would very much like each morning, when we start our day, to realize once again who we are and why we were elected to the Ukrainian Parliament. And then we'll be fine. It's not a place to threaten each other, it's a place to spread your hands for exercise and everything. So I want to say the following, colleagues. I don't accept any pressure, and I find it unacceptable. And I'd like you and I to use all the possibilities of a normal constructive dialogue. And these tribune locks, trying to break into the Supreme Council, threaten there or something. Things, things, things, stuff. Come on out here, take off the touch that's unlimited, and then threaten, and take full criminal responsibility for it. It can't be any different. And I am convinced that you and I will find understanding and demonstrate a high level of political culture that is so lacking in Ukrainian politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u68	Heroim Slava! 3693. Please, Oleg Lazko. 3693 is a draft of the Law. There is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. 3693 under reduced procedure. Vote. It's a reduced procedure. [[12:18:20]] For-188. Please. The decision has been made. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support a vital bill that relates to the situation on local councils. There was an election, you know, and a lot of those MPs who on the list of a political power became MPs today actually betrayed the electorate, as they did in Bloody Rose, when five members of the Radical Party were sold, betrayed the electorate and actually consecrated those forgeries that were in Bloody Rose. The same is true of each party. That's why we signed the faction leaders: Timoshenko, Berezuk, Lucenko, Lazko, we have introduced a bill that provides for the clarification of legislative provisions regarding the recall of members of the local councils. As you know today, the imperative mandate for members of the local councils is in effect one year after the elections are held. We don't think it's necessary to wait a year for them to discredit the party and betray voters by stretching the land, stretching the property. And to erase this rule that the imperative mandate becomes effective in a year for the deputies of the local councils and that it becomes effective immediately. That's the first one. And the second. Allow the party to call off the deputies. An unsettled question about the first number of the list when you cannot call it off. He was the first number, then he crossed over, betrayed voters, and you can't call him off, the party can't hold him responsible. That's why we're asking you to support this bill in order to address the question of recalling local council members so that the party's senior director can recall local council members on condition that they betray the electorate, betray the party and betray the people who voted for them. Thank you. Please be supportive. Please support all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u70	Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the committee, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the committee discussed this bill at today’s session. Different thoughts were heard during the discussion. But, in principle, the main point was that: society today requires political structure, the political responsibility of the parties that have delegated their representatives to local authorities. Of course, this is about the city’s, district councils, district councils, where elections took place according to the party proportional system. Of course, this does not apply to rural, village councils, which were held on a majority basis. So I personally believe that this bill also needs to be supported, because it deals with all the issues that Oleg Valeriovich Lazko pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u72	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Please enter two for, two for against. Oksana Korchinska. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, honourable national MPs, it is very important now, after voting for the Curve Rig, to support this bill, because it will allow for the influence of transparency and honesty beyond doubt of all elections so that there will be no counterfeiting, in order not to be deceived voters when they vote for one person, for one party, and they betray. This bill is a support for justice and integrity to the Lord God and to his constituents. Thank you. We urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u74	Alexei Rybchin. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, our faction was the initiator of this bill, and we ask for its support, because this bill does not only allow today to settle issues with those who have violated the party's statutes, the key pre-elections of these parties, and this refers to a constant rule that will apply to recalling as local voters, which is in the law and operating today, as well as to the central higher body of the party, so that there is no volunteerism and collecting accounts of one group with another. In addition, this law allows us to accelerate this process and not wait for a year, because this might happen, this year there will be events that will change the program dramatically, and the other ones with which the parties went to the elections. This makes it possible to clear a series of party lists, those who went from party to party in direct line with the new Electoral Law, and thus regulate the rule that will be followed by the next, who are and who have the best result in the elections. This rule still avoids a terrible situation when, in certain areas, members of the party were pressured and forced to stay away from local councils. We have facts when 11 candidates who could have become deputies because of pressure did not actually become members of local councils. This law makes it impossible and makes this procedure absolutely transparent, open. And it allows you to update a series of parties if there are individual MPs who are active who violate the party statute. So we ask you to support this in the way the committee approved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Yuri Moroko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Matvinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u78	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u79	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, what we are looking at right now, I would call it political bargaining or political conspiracies. A violation of the Constitution, a violation of the rules of law, a contradiction between all the courts that have been adopted in Ukraine, has now resulted in a tender for which we have appointed elections in the town of Krivo Rog. And if the political forces that voted in favour of this anti-constitutional law think they will win the elections in the Horn of Curve, I deeply doubt. I think soon the curvy will tell you about it and tell you about it in the face with their ballot papers. This is the first moment. Now, as far as the law is concerned. Nothing other than the principle of approach to the law of fortress. When we speak of the fact that we are gathering votes and putting out specific people, the representatives of the open list party are voting for and voting for a particular person. You vote for the party. If the party assumes responsibility for bringing this person up, let it bear full responsibility and be responsible. And the measure of responsibility should be in the next election that you held and how you formed those lists. But each individual can have his or her own opinion, may have his or her own views. And make it a fortress, depending, of course, someone would like very much, sitting in a party office running processes. But I think that this is fundamentally contrary to the constitutional norms laid down in the peremptory mandate and is contrary to the common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Kurilo Vitali Seminovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u81	I beg you to pass the word to Igor Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u82	Igor Nasalik, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u83	Good afternoon, dear friends! First of all, I did not hear from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Yegor Soboljev's apologies for what he did yesterday. So, first of all, I would ask that my address today be considered a reference to the regulatory committee to consider its behaviour. And not just tied up. yesterday, and with all the questions he's been asking, that carry a corrupt component. The other one. He listened to Mr. Layash, and if all five members of the Radical Party were sold, perhaps the question is not in the MPs, but in the party. Third. I want to remind you that the electoral system is completely different and people have chosen deputies. And if political leaders today are able to take them out of the electoral process from one point of view or another, they take the right to choose people. So I am absolutely against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u84	Please, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! This law and the same as he, the next 3,700 is an attempt to translate the problems of poor party building into deputies. These are attempts to make their mistakes, their own failures to frame, form party centres, form lists at the expense of voters, and decide at the expense of MPs. I believe that not all mechanisms need to be applied to ensure that there are no traitors on the lists. Or you and I are changing the electoral system, we're entering a system with party open lists and regional preferences, where we're going to know clearly which of the people is public, well-known, who can use community support, and that's how party lists will be formed, not through party leaders' voluntary decisions. So I'm just calling you against this and the following laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u86	Please, Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, this is simply an attempt at usurpation and slavery at all levels. Imagine, Law 3,700. The first 20 people will know what you'll like, and then they'll all be taken off the party before they're registered to the C.V.C.C. and they'll go through the 47th, 49th, which you've never seen. So this is going to be a substitute for people's trust. The same in the local elections: Once someone has done the wrong thing, he will be expelled immediately. These people were chosen, except for the first issue, we have all the lists open. And the last. I applied to Mr. Berezuk for a proposal or a vote a month and a half ago when you said you knew the facts that you had bribed five members of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the Constitution or apologized. I think we need to leave everything bad behind last year, so it's been a month and a half and a half, and that's not the case. So please apologize publicly to these deputies for the lie you told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u88	Thank you. There was a name, a replica. Oleg Berezuk, please have a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u89	Mr. Victor Krivenko! I've never, for a period of time, been able to speak out in public about any bribery or bribery in Parliament that relates to our faction. If that's what you know, Mr. Victor, please make a public statement about it, and the hypothetical assumptions in our Parliament about it over the course of the year apply to all factions. Because please, if you know, go to the Attorney General's Office and add the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u90	Thank you. There's no replica on the line. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u91	The President-in-chief, in the People's Front faction, there is an urgent need for a readjustment, in the Final Positions, to state that the act of this law extends exclusively to members of the party of members of the local councils elected at the local elections on October 25, 2015 as a state at the time of registration. And that's why we have a proposal that our faction will support this bill on the basis of, today, giving your commission to the committee to work with our rights and vote in general tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u93	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We had a local election under the new law. I would like to remind everyone that, according to this law, a year later, the party conferences that put out these deputies are, I would like to stress, party-based, on behalf of whom they have become deputies, already under the current law, have the right to deprive traitors of their mandate. I'm asking you, why do we think we have to do this in a year? Why do we think that a year from now he will be deprived of his mandate normally, and a month from now he will not? It's about formal logic, and now it's about specifics. I'm also responsible for the parties' responsibility for candidates, and I'm also responsible for people's willful choice of deputies and responsibility for elected ones, but in a poor country where, unfortunately, deputies are sold, sometimes in a country where the population tolerates, supports traitors and I know it by name. Sadly, there is no other way to punish the wicked. If a member of the Watch Tower Society who had come to steal a hectare of land had to be punished immediately, not in a year or two or five. And I'm today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u94	Complete, please, Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u95	And whoever works for the BP faction knows we don't have any mandatory votes, we have democracy. But treachery must be punished, and in this country a deputy is a servant of the people and of the party that brought it up. He should be responsible for his actions to the people and to the party organizations that promoted him. You don't like it? Don't talk like that!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u96	Please, the factions that did not take part in the discussion, the groups, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u97	Dear Head! Obviously, this law needs to be looked at at at a different angle, more specifically, by a draft law. Obviously, there is a need to protect an MP from the pressure he feels, especially if he is not part of a well - controlled coalition. You understand very well that at the local level of the MPs are mostly budgeters. And when called by a district or city chief and says, "If you don't support what I'm saying, you're definitely gonna be fired." So that's what the proposal is about. Obviously, we need to take a closer look at this bill, study all aspects of this problem, maybe consider it and take it as a basis, so that we have the opportunity to have people working freely in places without feeling pressure. I'm saying, knowing this directly from the MPs who talk about it. So I think it's going in the right direction, but all the details have to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u98	Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, Majority MP, city of Kiev. Yuri Vitaliyovich, in fact, is not a secret for Ukrainians that is sometimes sold not only to MPs but also to entire parties. And at times it may be that the MP remains the only honest member of all the representations that have been sent there. This law proposes what? See what's proposed to be replaced by saying, "to exclude a deputy if his activity contradicts his pre-election program" to change that "his activity contradicts the positions enshrined in the statute of the party." So the MP went with one, and changed his mind. It's right to rule him out. It is suggested that: the party’s position changed, and what the MP was going with remained, but it was still to be ruled out. I'll tell you this, in the 21st century in the European state, it is unacceptable to return to slavery. Party discipline should therefore be introduced. It's true, there are problems with that. And I think it's worth working on, but in general, it's impossible to adopt this law in the way it's proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u100	See what the problem is. No, there's a question about what? Yuri Vitaliyovich, we have one. Yuri Vitaliyovich, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u101	Considering that I was approached by a distinguished national MP, telling a terrible story about the sale of the whole party, I will answer. If you know which party is being sold, don't wander from such a party to the MPs. If you know them. If that's what happened to you, Your Honor, lay down your mandate and get out of the party that's sold. But don't stop the party from cleaning up the traitors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u102	Yes. We've got it. We have Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to address our fellow deputies first. Then let us also determine the responsibility for selling, not only seats on lists, but seats on lists. Are party leaders, party leaders ready to take criminal responsibility for selling places? If a man has betrayed, if a man has taken the money, let's put him in jail. But it's wrong to make a party dictatorship for people who sell places themselves. If a person defends his interests in a party. We've been out of Parliament for 10 years, demanding that there be democracy. We are now demanding open lists, but we are now establishing a dictatorship of party leaders. This is wrong. Please don't vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u104	People's MP Dunaev. And we're done. Please let the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The Constitution guarantees local self-government. This bill simply destroys local self-government. Imagine a situation where there is even a majority of the ruling coalition in the local government and, for example, a political leader has decided to withdraw the deputies. What's going on then? Disbalance. And then we practically stop the work of local self-government. And there's another election coming up, and there's spending money from the public and the local budget again. First of all, put order on the ground when you work and make decisions by making representatives of your political forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u106	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u107	Julia Volodymyrna, see if there's a card. Aah! All of it! Please speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! To be honest, there are times when ignorance is surprising. First, there were no lists in the local elections and there was nothing to sell to. As a minimum, national MPs need to know. Secondly, today's Elections Act clearly foresees the response of deputies to the initiative of the people in just one year's time. Where's the logic? Why can't you do it in a year? Thirdly, political responsibility is fundamentally different from criminal responsibility. Criminal responsibility, if there's a reason, please. But political responsibility, for example, when some people in faction vote in favour of the separatist movement, is purely political responsibility. And the party can't help but fire those people who go against common sense against the party program. The minister can be dismissed, the president can be removed through impeachment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u109	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u110	You can do everything you need to clean up an inefficient manager or representative. And the party is a five-year-old hostage who can go against common sense. There is a subjective factor to consider. The political responsibility of the people lies with the party, not with the individual MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u111	Thank you. One minute to lock. Author – Oleg Lazko. And let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u112	Dear fellow national MPs! The logic of your proposed law is very simple. The candidate ran from the party. Once the candidate has become a deputy, he acts against the interests of the electorate, contrary to the interests of the party. We've ruled him out of the party, but we can't deprive him of his mandate. And it turns out that he's in Creature Rose, Shapovalova, and this prostitute is serving Wilcule. Do you understand or not? So how could she be from the Radical Party? So give us the opportunity to expel these traitors so that normal deputies can come and defend the interests of the community, not the interests of those to whom they have been sold. So I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u113	Colleagues! I have an offer. Let's focus on the vote now. I'm going to put him to the vote on the basis of Maxim Burbak's proposal -- on the basis -- and that's going to be a signal vote. If we don't get the required number of votes, we'll continue our consultations. Okay? Please prepare for the vote. By the way, I suggest you work today for the rest of the day. Well, to the committees, 3 o'clock. That's how we vote, colleagues, on the basis of draft law, registration number 3693, as amended by Maxim Burbak. Signal vote. Please. Vote. [[12:43:45]] For 184 They didn't get the required number of votes. I propose that we continue our consultations on this subject. The law is under discussion, and we will be able to consider it even tomorrow, as the bill has already been discussed. He was not voted. He was spoken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on. Thank you. Colleagues! Let's move on. 1848 is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Guard Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, to be reconsidered with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, representative of the President of the Supreme Council, reports. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 February 15th, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Guard Act (number 1848) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. The Act provides for the establishment of tank military units in the Ukrainian National Guard. Tank troops are a kind of land army that, in accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, is a species of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Tank units have great firepower and shock power. They are designed to fight the enemy’s defense, to break his attack, and to fight against the tank. According to the Head of State, the establishment of such military units within the National Guard does not correspond to the Ukrainian National Guard's appointment and task of the National Guard. This is due to the fact that the relevant law defines the National Guard as a military formation with law enforcement functions, which is part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs system and carries out hostilities against armed aggression and offensive operations exclusively with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In view of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes to refrain from forming into the National Tank Military Guard and in paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the Act, which has been signed by the word "tanks" to exclude. It is also established by the Act that the appointment, discharge from the post of National Guard Commander of Ukraine is carried out by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. These positions are considered by the Head of State to be inconsistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, according to article 106 of the basic law, the President of Ukraine appoints and resigns the superior command of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations. Takes the lead in the areas of national security and defense of the state. In doing so, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the implementation of defined powers of submission, as provided for by law, which has been signed. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the position of part two of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act, which reads as follows: "The commander of the National Guard of Ukraine shall be appointed to office and shall be dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u115	Okay. Thank you. Please, from the committee of Papamarczuk Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u116	Dear Chairman. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A committee on law enforcement at its meeting on March 18th considered the President's proposal for the Ukrainian Act to amend the National Guard, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on February 3, 2015. The law was not signed by the President of Ukraine and returned to the Supreme Council with the following proposals. First offer. The President of Ukraine proposes to refrain from creating in the National Guard of Ukraine tank troops, parts, divisions, including paragraphs of the second subparagraph of one law, which has been signed, is considered necessary to exclude the word "tanks". After considering the proposed proposal, the Ukrainian national deputies supported them. At the same time, it has been noted that the National Guard has actually created tank parts that are composed of a large number of tanks and are already successfully carrying out combat tasks in the ATO area. Therefore, it would be appropriate to prohibit the creation of new tank military units. The other one. The President of Ukraine proposes that part of the second article 7 should be deleted in the following wording: "The commander of the National Guard of Ukraine shall be appointed to office and shall be dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." Such a proposal will allow for the appointment and discharge of the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, which is to be carried out by the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the members of the College, the President's arguments are correct, so the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President's proposals be taken into account in the Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act and the adoption of a redefined law as a whole in accordance with its final edition in a comparative table with the President's proposals. The committee supports the proposal, please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, do you have a question for a coconspirator? There's a question, isn't there? Please, three minutes for a question to the co-rapporteur. Just a question, three minutes. It's a special procedure. No speeches.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, once again, there are no speeches in this procedure, only questions. So if there's any questions in the room, I'm asking you three minutes to ask your own questions. From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" – Rybak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u119	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Dear Stephen Ivanovich! Please tell me if we understand you correctly that the President is proposing to regulate the norm, the appropriate norm, in accordance with the current National Guard Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u120	The President's proposal is based on valid legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. And the second. According to the National Guard's orders, the participation of tanks or other heavy weapons is unnecessary for the function. And the third. The President made two appropriate proposals, which were raised by me for settlement, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Kishkar. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! I will explain to both Stepan Ivanovich, and to myself why such confusion arises, and why, for the first time, we have not voted on this law. From a formal point of view, because of one discrepancy, the order of appointment and the release of the head of the National Guard of Ukraine. Because there are no management documents. Because there is no Ukrainian National Security Act. Because there are no strategic planning documents for the use of the National Guard. And so we don't know where we're going to use whether we need these tanks or we don't need them. That is why such misunderstandings arise. We don't yet have any governing documents on the state's military organization development programme, so we don't know where the National Guard is. And that's why we have to adopt this law in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u123	Indeed, your observation as to whether an offer has the right to exist. But the President of Ukraine, who is the guarantor of the Constitution, has taken fully into account the position of a valid Constitution, article 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, National Guard fighter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u125	Thank you. You know, I want to be a National Guard fighter to say or remind you that it's the Kulczytsky Battalion, the National Guard first to go and take the lead. And when we lacked armor, just tanks, cars, that's why our guys were killed, and there was no armor. And we offered to provide heavy artillery to the National Guard at the time of the fighting. Later, if you consider it necessary to remove it, we can put it into the hall and vote. And now I'm demanding our guys' support and that they have this technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u126	First of all, I want to say that General Kulčicki really is the hero of Ukraine who gave his most valuable life. Representatives of the National Guard made this most valuable contribution to the beginning of the protection of our nation and borders. But there's the Ukrainian National Guard Act, and there's regulations on the Armed Forces, which clearly distinguishes the function on the issue. The President of Ukraine, along with you, honourable colleagues, in the Hall, did a lot over the course of the year about the construction, and indeed the construction of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, including the National Guard of Ukraine. No one takes away heroism, but we're talking about the Constitution today and two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u127	Please, Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u128	"The will of the people" will support this proposal. But there is another question that there are still artillery parts involved in this law. So along with the tank parts, we think we need to clean up the artillery parts. Because there will also be a need to create educational institutions that will teach and provide. As far as we know, the Armed Forces themselves are not equipped with artillery, mortars, and heavy artillery. It is yet to be given to the National Guard, which is an internal army, which still, God forbid, can use it against its own people. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u129	The head of state, thank you for asking, the head of state was clearly guided by the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act and the Ukrainian National Guard Act. And they used the issue of advanced technology, which was banned according to the function, which is described in two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u130	Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u131	Mr. Kubov! I have a question to ask you personally, with all due respect to you, please tell me, and if you don't have to sit in a trench with a rusty machine and listen to tanks coming at you from a distance. And how many minutes do you have left to live? And if you didn't have to, you don't have to judge whether or not tanks are needed on the front. In that case, excuse me, your opinion of the frontists is no more than that of the ballerina about the hostess. Have a conscience, tomorrow the situation can change, any minute, and what will the National Guard do without tanks, without support? There would have been tanks from the very beginning, half of the fallen, or more, would have been alive for a long time, not dead. And I'm asking everyone in this room not to support this amendment, but to vote for the law that the President has made, that's better for everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u132	You know, you have a right to that statement, too, and I'll answer that question very simply: and very, very much, from the soul, even before what happened to the east, I'm with the brothers, including, which were then in Nazgard General Kulczyck, "Black Hundreds," with the boys of the Heavenly 100, I was and saw death, and I will not comment further on your interpretation. You're right, you're a hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Oleg Medunica gives the word to Andrew Antonishtak. Please turn on Andrew Antonishtak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm speaking to you as your colleague as Lieutenant Colonel of the National Guard of Ukraine. A year during the war, the National Guard has no commander. One year, please appoint a commander. Please vote for the bill. The National Guard was formed on March 13, 2014. During the formation, we didn't divide into the People's Front, into others, we formed the National Guard of Paris, Avakov, Pashinsky, I, a few more self-defense officers of Maidan. I'm asking you, I'm going to the Opposition Block, to the non-fractional, coalition brothers: please get together, we don't have political ambitions right now, we now have the National Guard of Ukraine. Remember those four men, those four young men who died protecting us, our Parliament. They did not ask who was sitting here — opponents, nonfractionists, or coalitions. And there's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u135	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u136	Aren't you ashamed to look into your voters' eyes? Because thanks to the National Guard, which saved from the hungry death of the inhabitants of Vuglegir, the inhabitants of Debalts. I'm asking you to support the president's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u137	I want to thank Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, please know that the consideration of the President's proposals has a special procedure, and the speeches are unforeseeable. Questions were asked within the time limit. I'm asking you to take your seats with all your fellow national deputies. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, while there are going to be deputies, taking up jobs, I want to tell you. Indeed, in our own time we supported this bill by all the groups in the hall, and there were some contradictions in the administration. But what I'm saying is, he's in Parliament right now, we've just talked to the minister, a bill that already regulates all the misunderstandings that, according to the reforms of the general IMF, settles all the contradictions that have been made with the bill, and so we need to understand that the conflict moments have been removed, and the bill that regulates all these nuances, it's already in the Supreme Council, we can vote any day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u140	Thank you. Please take your seats. Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov, please, one minute, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u141	Dear friends! We have agreed with the President on a new draft of this law, which is now harmonized and submitted to the Supreme Council for Committee and Conference Review, which will reconcile all the conflicts that have now been discussed in the Hall. So I think it would be the right thing to do if it were this one. These proposals and this law, which is currently under consideration, we have left in history, and the agreed bill will be put into the hall today or tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by procedure, I have to put to the vote (so prescribed) to accept it as a whole, taking into account all the President's proposals. And I still have to put a 300-vote proposal on the vote. That's the procedure. Ready to vote? Please make an offer: to accept the bill as a whole, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. [[13:03:50]] For 169 169 did not get the required number of votes. And the next proposal is to beat the President's veto, which is to win 300 votes. I'd like to put it to a vote, too. [[13:04:16]] For-52 I didn't get the required number of votes either. The law is regarded as being rejected. And it opens the way for a new bill that adequately addresses all the issues that have been. Thank you. Oleg Valeriyovich, I have an offer. I'm with you guys, faction leaders, I'm going to go out for a consult, keep people working. What are we going to stop for half an hour, the whole Council? Please don't let me call it a break. There's just Oleg Valeriovich's statement for a break. I'm ready to hold all the consultations. Andrew. Yeah, two factions. And Andrew Volodymyrovich will vote. My colleagues, listen to me. It's a very important question. Look. That's the question. I ask everyone to support and give appropriate assignments. 3303, these are internal affairs pensioners. So it turns out that when we passed the National Police Act, those who worked hard we just threw out of the way, in general, of this law. So there's a proposal for this whole bill, 3303. Do you hear that? [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean, "no vote"? I'm going out with you now. Well, they're pensioners. Well, why? It's discrimination if you do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! 3303, this is the Ukrainian Act, the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Guaranteeing Social Protection of Former Workers of the Internal Affairs Offices of Ukraine and Members of Their Families. Colleagues! 3303, shall we vote? Should we? Well, then I'm asking that we don't have to break this law right now. Please, everyone, take your seats. 3303. Signal voting as a basis and as a whole. And I'm going right after this law to consult, and Andry Volodymyrovich is in charge. Please support everyone. 3303. Signal voting as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. It's the establishment of social justice that you and I have missed. Vote! Signal! 3303 is based on the whole. I'm asking you to support everyone. Vote! Signal vote. [[13:07:09]] For 268. There are voices. Thank you. On the basis and in general 3303, please vote, please support. 3303 as a whole. Vote. Please support everyone. [[13:07:28]] For 279 The law's been passed. As promised, I'm handing over the lead to the first vice-speaker and inviting Yuri Vitaliyovich, faction and group leaders, please on the 3rd floor, for a meeting, for one person. Colleagues! Another law, 3225 is the National Police, where we have ruled you out. Aah! Is that with the President's proposals? May I vote on the President's proposals now? Please, colleagues! 3225. Stepan of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Ukraine Act on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act No. 3225. Section III, paragraph 3, of the Act provides that higher education institutions within the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine are allowed to introduce positions that are replaced by military, police or teaching personnel in the civil protection service. In doing so, the list of posts and the order of their replacements are approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. However, referring to the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to approve the number of positions to be replaced by military personnel limits the authority of the Head of State as the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who exercises leadership in the areas of national security and defence of the State, and on which the number of posts replaced by military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations has been approved. Also, the above-mentioned provision of the law does not comply with the Ukrainian National Police Act, which establishes that a list of positions that may be replaced by police in government bodies, institutions and organizations is approved by the President of Ukraine. Furthermore, the law does not address the issue of further training of professionals for the needs of the National Police by higher education institutions and specific training conditions within the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and for which they trained professionals for public procurement for the needs of the militia. Item 2. Section III, paragraph 10, of the law on the completion and transitional provisions of the law on signature states that the search-and-research cases initiated by the internal affairs authorities by 6 November 2015 are closed. In doing so, the law does not provide for either order or entities that will be authorized to make appropriate decisions. This approach to the closure of search-and-rescue matters does not correspond to the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which establishes a comprehensive list of conditions and cases where search-and-research cases are closed. Under such circumstances, the actions of officials of the National Police of Ukraine, who will close the cases, may be classified as offences provided for in article 365 of the Criminal Code. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council a higher law with his reasoned proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u144	Thank you. The co-report is invited by the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Law, by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. And then the answer- questions. Attention! There are no speeches in the procedure, only questions. Please, Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u145	On 10 December 2015, the President's proposal to amend some legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act was considered by the honourable chairman, honourable colleagues. The President of Ukraine made two proposals, namely paragraphs 3 and 10 of the section "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Act "To Amend Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the National Police Act adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 10 July 2015. The President of Ukraine believes that the individual provisions of the law, in particular those relating to the competence of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, have been approved in the list of positions to be replaced, that military officials restrict the constitutional powers of the Head of State and do not comply with the National Police Act. In addition, the President of Ukraine pointed out that according to section 10, paragraph 10, "The Final and Transitional Positions", all search and rescue cases initiated by internal affairs authorities are closed by November 6, 2015. Such an approach is not in line with the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which establishes a comprehensive list of conditions and cases in which search-and-rescue cases are closed, article 9.2. Under such circumstances, officials of the National Police of Ukraine who close the relevant cases exceed their official authority, which may be qualified as an offence, provided for in article 365 of the Criminal Code. Having examined the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the members of the committee noted that they were right and adopted the decision: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act and the adoption of the law as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u146	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, now I am asking you to prepare for the enrollment if you have any questions. Please. No questions? Can we vote? Dear colleagues, then I ask everyone to come into the hall, take their seats, prepare for the vote. And while the MPs are coming in, I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the interior minister Arsen Awakov to express his position. Please, Arsen Avakov. Please, one minute, stand by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u147	Dear friends, this legislation is very large. But we found two errors there that we corrected along with the committee, the ministry. And that's why we support the President's proposal, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, so we have a common well-established position both with the committee and with the IMF, and with the President who propose that we adopt this law as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. This is a common, unified position. And I'm just asking that we be careful, once again, asking the MPs to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. I'll put the vote in first. And I'm betting. The signal vote won't hurt that. A signal vote on the proposal to accept, in general, the proposal of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act. Signal vote, please take part in the vote, please support. Dear colleagues, we vote, please. [[13:16:07]] For 223 Dear colleagues, please be careful. I can see that not all of them have made it. Once again, we will now vote, not in a signal vote, but in a basic vote. Ready, colleagues, everyone in the hall? So I'm voting on the proposal to accept in general, taking into account the Ukrainian President's proposals, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine, number 3225. Vote please, colleagues. Please support the vote. [[13:17:02]] For 237 Decision taken. Welcome to the decision-making of both the IMF minister and the committee for the preparation of the decision. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a cluster of issues "to make decisions on the issues under discussion." Are we ready to vote? Yes, let the Head come back, and then we will consider all the questions when the final consultation "to make decisions on the issues under discussion" is concluded. Now, we're going to go to. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, until the Conciliation Council comes along, that we have a question that is next in order of the day, not the budgetary process, but the question that unites the entire room. This is the second reading, the draft of the Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Modernization of the Botonic Water Treatment Station. And for this project, the Japanese are spending money, and let's take a quick look at it, and then we'll take it, and then we'll move on to budgetary issues that are actually already common, common agreement, we'll be able to go to the vote. Is there agreement, fellow believers? Is there a room in Nina Petrovna? Yes, yes. Nina Petrovna, ready to report on this bill? Yes. This question unites the entire room, let us consider it quickly, briefly, and make a decision on it, it will be important, there is. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u149	My dear colleagues, I really want to say that we've worked too hard on these bills on the committee, and for the second reading, we've cleaned up and set the very standards that will help us implement a project to modernize the Botany Water Treatment Station. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, there were nine proposals, six of them included, two in part, and one in part rejected. As a result of its consideration of the bill at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an amended bill on the Committee, a draft Ukrainian law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the draft modernization of the Bortnicki Water Treatment Station on second reading and in general, to adopt the law as Ukraine's Law. Please be supportive. And now we can move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u150	Thank you. Of the amendments that have been tabled, one amendment has actually been rejected – this is amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Lehchenka. Does Mr. Yuri insist on speaking? No, it doesn't. So, colleagues, all the other amendments are taken into account and we can say that the bill is fully harmonized, supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u151	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u152	supported by all political factions and there is a proposal to go to the vote for the bill. Nina Petrovna is being supported? Did you bring the card? Then, please, let us take up our jobs. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, those who have gone to the towers, I ask you to return to the workplace. Please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. So, dear colleagues, first I'm going to put a signal vote to see what is the potential, once again I'm asking for jobs, and I'm going to put a signal vote on the draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the Modernization of the Botonic Water Treatment Station, chapter 2392a, second reading and generally. Signal vote, respectable colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[13:24:44]] For 225 There's support in the hall. What we haven't got, please concentrate, maximize. It's a tough thing to get on a green button, and that's why it needs maximum concentration. And I'm now putting the basic vote on the draft Act amending Chapter XXI "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Modernization Project of the Botonic Water Treatment Station, Number 2392a, second reading, and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, Your Honor. [[13:25:42]] For 266 Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the drafters. Decision taken. The next is a bill on the same subject. 2393a, it's on the same subject. Please remain in your seats. I think we're going to look at it as quickly and effectively. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southern Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the second reading was followed by 19 amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies. And a working group that was working in parallel to the issues of amending the Customs Code and the Tax Code. It is suggested that 15 amendments should be taken into account in whole or in part and only 4 should be rejected. I would like to remind you that, taking into account the amendments that have been taken into account by the Ukrainian National Deputies in the second reading and as a whole, it is proposed to adopt the text of the bill, according to which, temporarily for the period of implementation of the project of modernization of the Bortnicki Water Treatment Station, benefits will be paid in taxes on revenue and taxes on the added value of the Japanese subject from the implementation of the project, which will directly reconstruct the sewage treatment facilities and the construction of the technology line for the processing and disposal of settlements and benefits from taxes on the income of individuals and the military community of Japanese citizens who will be involved in the reconstruction process. Taking into account all the comments and all the suggestions, the Committee's proposal is to make a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Modernization Project of the Bortney Water Treatment Station to be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Or let's move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, of the amendments we have, there are only two amendments that have been rejected. These are the amendments of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Does he insist? Mr. Yuri insists. Which one? Fifth Amendment? Yes, please turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u155	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that it is proposed to include in paragraph 9 of the bill. Chapter XX "Transitional positions": "Subjects that are a party to a joint activity agreement. " And this is not required of those mentioned. This is not required, in fact, with a contract with the Japanese to include these subjects in these bills. If included, it will allow hypothetically to create additional benefits that are absolutely unnecessary for Ukrainian residents about. by means of a joint agreement. So my amendment had just suggested that the bill should be brought into line solely with the Japanese treaty so that it would not go beyond the treaty, that it would not do anything extra, but that it would not create any unnecessary tax benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u156	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u157	You've been dealt with in detail with your amendment. And it is the need for a joint action agreement to be made by one of the parties that is either directly a Japanese participant or a company that is founded by a Japanese participant, and in such a contract, the proportion of such a party should be more than 50 percent. And this is done to involve our business subjects, Ukrainian subjects, in this work. But the person responsible for the calculation and application of the benefits, the benefits to the work, the project, will be the representative, or Japanese side. So either the spread of the benefit or the application and the creation of some kind of scheme is not possible at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u158	Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? He insists. Amendment No. 5 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. [[13:30:32]] For 121 The decision is not made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u159	One minute, Andrew. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear faction leaders! Now that this law has been completed, we will move on to voting on the laws that relate to the adoption of the budget. So I now ask all the Ukrainian national deputies to come to the hall so that we can continue our work. We have not much time left, but before that we will consider yet another law, 3693. Please, colleagues, I ask everyone to come to the hall and take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u160	Please 8 amendments, People's Deputy Levchenko. Is he insisting? Lechenko insists on 8? Why don't you hear 8 and 9 right now? Why don't you make an 8 and 9 sound right away? It's one, isn't it? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u161	So 8 and 9 are actually the same thing. Well, I'd still like to get the reporter's attention again. The point is that in this way, as is currently prescribed for the second reading of the bill, well, the first reading was actually proposed. It creates a possibility, let's call it a "hole" in legislation, which makes the Ukrainian subject, who is part of the joint activity agreement, receive individual benefits, in fact, even unrelated to the implementation of this bill, the implementation of this project and the Japanese agreement. And an agreement with the Japanese does not require that they be given such benefits, in fact, and they do not need the same wording. So I would still like to ask that my amendments be taken into account. Because if you don't properly draft the bill, you're essentially creating some kind of one, although not a big one, but a tax pit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u162	Nina Petrovna, please be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u163	Dear colleague! What you said was totally off. We worked together with the Ministry of Finance, with the State Fiscal Service, and we were just trying to avoid any possibilities. But without involving our Ukrainian business subjects, what is the point? We also want to get our own people involved, but they are exempt from taxation only because of the work involved in the project, and the party responsible for the joint activity is responsible. There can be no abuse at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u164	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Mr. Yuri, do you insist? Please, who supports Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please. [[13:33:20]] Z-85 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues! We've finished discussing the amendments that have been tabled to the committee and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and prepare to vote on the bill as a whole. First of all, it's an emergency. So I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Law on Change to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code" (for a project to modernize the Botney Station of Clean Fluid Waters) (number 2393a) in the second reading and in general. Signal vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:34:12]] For 266 Thank you. High potential. Please. So, dear fellows, we are already voting on a basic vote. The draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the Modernization of the Bortnicka Station of Clean Waters (No. 2393a) is submitted to the vote, on second reading and as a whole. Please vote, colleagues. Please take part in the vote. Vote. [[13:34:54]] For 272 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee. Congratulations on your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u165	Thank you, Your Honor. There is an offer then to continue our work until the issues related to the adoption of the budget are exhausted, where it will now be literally a dozen questions. I would like, colleagues, to vote on the continuation of our work before these issues are exhausted. Vote. This is going to be the hour, plus half an hour, plus 40 minutes. Yeah, to the committees, to the committees, to 3 o'clock we're working. Please vote and support. Right to the committees, please support. [[13:35:39]] For 233 Thank you, colleagues. We're working on it. Well, we have procedures to follow. Please, colleagues, we just had another meeting with the faction leaders of 3693. I invite you to Sergio Vlasenko's rostrum. It was just a signal vote of 3693. We are moving on to all budgetary issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, indeed, had additional consultations with the leaders of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. And it was suggested that the Supreme Council should propose that this bill should be voted on as a basis and in general, complementing it with the "transitional positions" of the following content. This was proposed by Maxim Burbak of the People's Front: the act of this law extends exclusively to members of the parties, members of the local councils elected at the local elections on October 25, 2015 as a state at the time of registration. I ask you to support this bill as a whole and to give the committee the right to carry out technical and legal remedies when preparing it for signing by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u167	And that was a very good offer to accept, I think. Dear colleagues, come on. Please, we're taking our seats. Signal? Signal with this offer. Please, we're taking our seats. Vote. Please, colleagues, a second-reading signal vote and generally with Sergio Vlasenka's proposals. Ready? Please, we're taking our seats, we're taking a vote. Ready? Vote, signal vote. Please vote. [[13:37:46]] For 202 Well, almost. Dear colleagues, once again. This is Law 3693. Dear colleagues, let's do it again, let's do it again. Let's do it again, dear fellows. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Igor Nasalik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u168	Dear friends, in introducing this law, the committee head did not say whether the committee supported the bill or not. And I would like Mr. Vlasenko to formulate the position of the committee on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u169	Colleagues, let's vote. 3693 with Sergey Vlasenka's offer. You can hear the offer very much. Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's vote. Vote. 3693 in the second reading and in general with Sergey Vlasenka's proposal, a signal vote, a signal. Vote, please. Vote. Vote, please support, colleagues. I love local self - government as much as anyone else, but please support. [[13:39:56]] For 211 Well, we're almost there. Please prepare for the vote. We'll vote the alarm again and we'll continue to determine. Colleagues, let's vote again. I think that might be an acceptable question. Once again, 3693, with the amendment of Sergio Vlasenko. We take our seats, we prepare for the vote. There's been more votes. Ready? Signal voting on the basis and in general, as corrected by Sergio Vlasenka. Come on, take your seats. The MPs are still good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall. We're taking up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that a vote is now taking place so that all the deputies will enter the hall and take up jobs. Please, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. We're not going out. We're going into the hall. Please, a few more votes. Come on in, let's go into the hall. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u171	Please, colleagues, we define 3,693 as a whole. The rating signal vote with the amendment of Sergey Vlasenka. Signal voting, in the second, on the basis and in general. Vote. [[13:42:42]] For 202 Okay, colleagues, we're still going to hold consultations, we're going back, maybe even today. Let's move on. To make decisions on the issues under discussion. One minute, this is all about the budget, my colleague. And I'm suggesting, that's enough systemic work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, we come into the hall, we occupy jobs so that we can have a successful vote. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u173	Colleagues, I suggest we continue our consultations, but in the meantime, let's move on to budget issues. 3627, respected colleagues, the law that was discussed yesterday, on the basis and in general. Ready to vote? Signal, let's see. Let's vote for the 3693 base, with the amendment, so that tomorrow we can finally consider it. Colleagues, there is a suggestion that we now vote for it as a basis for its final consideration tomorrow and for its adoption as a whole. I'm asking everyone to support that logic. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to support this logic. 3693 is based on its adoption tomorrow as a whole. 3693, what we just said. It's okay. Colleagues, listen carefully, take your seats. We do not have much time left to work, according to our decision. But I'm asking everyone to settle down, the next proposal, attention, to accept it now with the basis of an amendment by Sergio Vlasenko, with the aim of his final approval tomorrow and tomorrow I'm going to put it first. Colleagues, we have time to consult in order to make a general decision, we have something to do. Colleagues, can such logic be accepted? Could such logic be acceptable? [[B in m in s a l in]] Could such logic be acceptable? Colleagues, I'm proposing a basis for it now to be accepted with the amendment of Sergio Vlasenko, as a basis. And by tomorrow we will have all the necessary consultations, and we will unlock Parliament's work. Please support that logic. We're taking our seats. We're taking our seats! But, colleagues, if you are now. Please, there's an offer here. Now support Law 3693 on the basis of Sergey Vlasenka's proposal for his final adoption tomorrow at the meeting. But by that time, we will have further consultations and will find those formulations that satisfy everyone. Do you have a deal? With suggestions. We'll figure it out, so believe me, we'll figure it out, it just takes more time. It takes more time to consult. We're taking our seats! Signal, I'm asking you to back everyone up on the ground. This signal will now be the vote, I ask you all to support it. Based on the base. Based on the base. Vote? Please, this is an emergency. Please support everyone. We'll have time for consultations by tomorrow. We'll find a solution, we'll discuss it, and we'll find a solution to make everyone happy. And tomorrow we'll also consider another 3,700, but the committee has to be today. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. Please support everyone, and we will continue to work on the budget. Please, on the ground. Please support me as a base. Based on the base. Vote. Signal vote. Please be supportive. Just on the ground. Please support all your colleagues. [[13:51:51]] For 202 202, that's an emergency. Colleagues, on the basis of and on. Please, let's give the signal one more time, on the basis of that. Signal's on the ground and we'll continue our consultations. Please support everyone. On the basis of a signal vote. Vote. Vote. We all vote. Please be supportive. [[13:52:51]] For 213 That's better. Fellows, I would like to stress once again, attention, we are now voting on this issue as a basis and we are holding consultations. If we don't find an understanding tomorrow, you won't vote for it, that's not the whole law. I understand that there are discussions. By tomorrow, we have time for discussions. Do you understand? Yes. Please, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u174	Please come into the hall, distinguished colleagues, and take up jobs. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that a vote is taking place. Please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u175	Colleagues, we will now vote once again as a basis for consideration tomorrow. Please. Let's put the signal vote on the ground. Ready? Please all support this proposal. Please support everyone as a basis. On the basis of that, please vote. Vote. On the ground, a signal vote. Please be supportive. [[13:54:41]] For 219 Well, almost. Colleagues, now I'm asking everyone to focus again. We are now voting on it as a basis and holding further consultations. A constructive offer from Oleg Laska. Wait a minute. Only constructive, because I'm going to turn off the microphone. It's 219 on the board.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues from the Peter Prashenko faction and other factions: the People's Front, the Self-Help Fathers, the Radical Party and friendly MPs who support progressive laws! I have a constructive offer. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, let's vote together in a package of 3,693 and 3,700, in a package together for both laws. And so, I think we're going to consolidate and unite the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u177	Got it. Come on, that was a destructive offer. Colleagues! Again! Baseline voting, 3693. And we're still working on budgetary issues, and we have until morning to hold consultations. I ask everyone to support that logic, 3693 as a basis. Vote! All of it! We're voting on the basis. On the ground! Signal vote. Ready? Vote. Vote. [[13:57:16]] For 236 Yes. Now for the basis. Vote. Let's vote on the basis and move on, fellows. The country is waiting. We're voting on the basis. For both of us. We're voting on the basis. Morning! Vote, fellows! Based on the base. [[13:57:38]] For 227 All of it. 227. Copy that. I'm asking everyone to continue their consultations, colleagues. Thank you. Let's move on. Dear colleagues! Act 3627 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property (for the right to receive part of the net profit (income). Colleagues! Signal voting 3627 on the basis and in general. Ready to vote? 3627, emergency. Please remain seated. Let's have a quick vote. Please, 3627, signal vote. Faction leaders, mobilize factions. Vote? Vote, fellows! Let's make an emergency call, 3627. We vote on the basis as a whole. Vote. On the basis and in general. [[13:58:43]] For-187 Okay. Let's move on. 3628, signal, based. Signal, based on 3628. 3628 is based on a signal vote. Yes, we will. I'm just being alert right now. This is signal 3628. [[13:59:23]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, look, once again, we agreed on this. Attention, everyone. Calm down. We agreed that we were considering a package of laws related to the adoption of the budget. And from what I understand, everyone was aware that we were going to vote now. Now you have to convert your words into action. That's why I'm addressing all the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, the logic will be as follows: now I'm putting this law 3628, for example, in the signal, it's dialing up the required number of votes; then the committee head comes out and reads out all the positions that are being approved; then there's going to be another signal vote and then there's going to be a final vote. Do you understand the logic of action? So I can just figure out what I'm ready for today. 3628. He'll report to Ludmila Denisov. I'm putting it to a vote, a vote. This will mean that we are moving on to its consideration. 3628. Ready? Please back up the alarm, and then we'll move on to its consideration. Please, 3628 votes, sir. [[14:01:14]] For-147 Please, colleagues, Prime Minister. Attention! Listen, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u178	Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, my dear national deputies, please allow me just two minutes of your precious attention. Dear colleagues, you and I have worked together for several weeks to ensure that the bills that are currently not voting are adopted. I would like to remind you that the laws passed by the government, together with the MPs, together with the parliamentary committees, have been worked out and three times in our meetings with the factions' leaders and group leaders have agreed. I want to make one more brief stop at our goal with you. Our goal is for Ukraine to receive a new state budget on January 1, which raises by 12 percent the social standards, which includes 113 billion dollars of funding for national security and defence, which has subsidies for citizens of the country, where pensions and salaries are paid. The budget needed for the economic stability of the state to maintain the exchange rate and to receive assistance from our international partners. In addition to this law, first of all are bills that form an income and expenditure portion of the state budget, which you and I are already discussing for two weeks. For all the compromises you've made, the government has gone to, including agricultural support, including at the rates of the excise assembly, including rents, including payments for radio frequency. I can count a lot more. But, dear friends, our responsibility with you is to accept the budget. We agreed, we agreed for the country and found a balanced approach. Please, either we decide that Parliament is voting for what we agreed on or, if this decision is not available, it means that a country without a budget, people without a salary, pensioners without a pension, the financial and banking system is at stake. Nobody's gonna give us any money. And we're going to put on our knees the economic stability that has been achieved in the last few months. I respect you as every member of Parliament. And I really appreciate the work and the criticism that has justly spoken to the government. We accept any constructive criticism. What is more, the government is now very popular in criticizing. But right now I'm asking you to show political responsibility, vote in favour of the necessary laws and not throw the country into economic collapse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, once again. I think we have in quite difficult circumstances right now still to ensure that we make the necessary decisions. And that's why I suggest we go back to logic. We have now an hour before the committees that we can work in the session room. So 3627 Andrew Ivanchuk reports. [[B in m in s a l in]] They've been looking into it. 3627 were considered. Let's put it on the ground and, in general, we're going to re-vote 3627. Wait, take your seats. The logic was this: we're voting on a signal vote. We're voting, and there's going to be an amendment, for example, to the Dennis Committee. There, on all the things we agreed on, she'll sound them from the rostrum. And 3627 yesterday, we talked about the government. Ready? 3627 we discussed it yesterday. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects on the right to receive a portion of the net profit (income) of enterprises. We discussed it yesterday, that's the question. Are you ready to vote for him? It means that at least 30 percent of the state-owned enterprises are budgeted, and this is the government's mandate. Colleagues, look, the kids are here, our present and our future. Let's show the kids how we vote in 250 votes. Let's show you how to vote for the laws. So, colleagues, 3627. Dear colleagues, 3627 is a general signal vote. Vote. Vote. 3627 — a total vote of 3627. [[2:08:10]] For-200 No votes. 3628. Sophia Denisov. Is there a need to read about all the benefits right now? Shall we vote? 3628. Ludmila Denisov is on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u180	Dear National MPs, if you remember, yesterday I reported a new version of Bill 3628. And you could see, if you read this bill yourself, that it's different from what was originally introduced. I think if I have to, I'll tell you again what changes have been made to it. If it is not necessary, there is still an agreement today that there will be further amendments to this bill, 3628, which we considered yesterday as an editorial committee. That all the benefits that have been translated, including the pay pass and others, to local budgets, they are cleaned up. So what I'm asking you to do under the transcript is to give a mandate to the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, to introduce to the bill technical and legal remedies for the removal from the text of the rules on the granting of payment travel and other benefits as decided by local self-government authorities at the expense of the local budget. But another technical legal order, which I also request to introduce in End of Position, paragraph 7, paragraph 5, second paragraph, delete the words "by 31 December 2016." I ask you very much to support this decision. There are almost all expenses related to culture, almost all the changes proposed by the Education Committee. There's a whole period of learning and feeding and orphans and children deprived of parental care and special needs and a lot of other things. So I ask you very much, to balance the 2016 budget, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, the bill as drafted by the committee. There's another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u181	Victor King, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u182	You had this paper delivered yesterday morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u183	So that's not what you were reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce a technical amendment to the following edition: in paragraph 23 of this bill, paragraph 4, delete the words "in the course of the exercise of parliamentary powers" and the words "in this law." Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u185	This law, which was passed yesterday, was really not amended on the debt passage, because they had just agreed on what they were doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Colleagues, look, the committee head came out, the committee was doing a very serious systemic work, almost everything. All proposals made by members of different factions, different ones, were taken into account and balanced. Plus Victor King's amendment, which also bothered everyone and it's taken into account. So I now propose to vote on this bill as a whole. So, dear fellows! I'll put it to a vote, a tech-legal vote. Siewakovsky, please, on the road. Colleagues, vote, vote. And please support this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! I mean, the people's deputies aren't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u188	Ready to go?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u189	Please, we've been given this text, and we can't vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-23-m0.u190	Let's try a full vote on the motions of the committee and Victor the King, which were broadcast under the transcript. Ready? Let's vote for the vote. Vote. [[14:13:39]] For-154 Thank you, Your Honor, 154 votes. I declare the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
