ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We'll start the job immediately after the vote. It's important for everyone to be in their seats. Please, the Secretary of the Supreme Council, invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, we're not enough to vote. Once again, I invite the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We can start our work, we can start our evening session. Please make room for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. Let's register. [[16:10:21]] 331 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We've stopped with you to consider the question that. on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. The first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council was accompanied by an examination of the matter. Please continue, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we had two hours to get to know all the candidates in order to identify and take a position. And since today is an extremely saturated agenda, I am very much asking that we now actually have 16 votes. 14 is the rating of each of those candidates and then by one vote of seven who have won the highest number. Everyone's vote will matter, and so I ask, right now under the Rules, I'm going to read the name, the name and the father of each candidate -- and we're going to vote. I am very much asking you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, who hasn't come in yet. Please prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, are we ready to vote? Self-help! The People's Front is ready? "Peter Prashenka's Block", "The Fatherland," may we vote? Please approach your workplaces. So before the vote, I'm going to read all the candidates. I'll read it to you so you can navigate. We will vote in alphabetical order. So number 1 during the vote will be Voloch Karl Maksimovich; number 2 will be Gorbachev Vladimir Anatoliyovich; number 3 will be Demenko Anatoly Grigorovich; number 4 will be Giovanni Kessler; number 5 will be Dzier Jaroslava Bogdanovna; number 6 will be Levchenko Katerina Borisovna; number 7 will be Mary Butler; number 8 will be Ništek Evgen Mikolaiovich; number 9 will be Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich; number 10 will be Philenko Vladimir Pilipovich; number 11 – Shabunin Vitaly Viktorovich; number 12 – Shalaiyyyy Olexy Stepanovich; number 13 – Šishkin Viktor Ivanovic; number 14 – Jacinko Anton Vladimirovich. After each of them, we will vote, and then seven people who have won the largest number of votes must obtain 226 votes in order for them to be approved by the commission. So it's very important, disciplined responsible and coordinated voting. Please, anyone who has not yet entered the hall, please come in and prepare for the vote. The factions are ready to vote? Then let's get started. Ready to vote? Ready. Then, please, we begin the voting procedure. So I'm voting for Voloch Karl Maximovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Please vote on who supports this candidate. Please vote. Please stop voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u4	Let the candidate rise. Is he here?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u5	So everyone's ready? Please, Voloch Karl Maximovich. Please vote. Please activate the voting system. Who supports Voloch Karl Maximovich's candidacy? Dear colleagues, come on. I'll do it again. I'm asking you to calm down. We have 14 candidates. During the discussion, representatives from political factions presented each of them and told them why they were putting them out. We're not discussing it right now, we're not discussing it right now. According to the Rules, we are only voting immediately after the discussion that took place before lunch. Society, you had two hours to figure it out. I'm going to put one at a time just to vote, not to talk about it, not to ask questions. Do you understand the position? Whoever's got more than seven people, then we put them in for approval. I'd like you to focus and prepare again. And now we're starting to vote. So I'm voting for Voloch Karl Maximovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Please. We turn on the voting system and vote. Voloch Karl Maximovich. The one who supports it, vote. Please turn on the system. [[16:17:41]] For a hundred and 105 votes for. 107, I'm sorry, 107 votes in favour. Help me. The other one. Gorbachev Vladimir Anatoliyovich, proposal from the Peter Dustenka Block. Who supports the candidacy of Gorbachev Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please vote. Please. Gorbachev Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Vote. [[16:18:18]] For-195 Next proposal: Demenko Anatoly Grigorovich, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lach. Anyone who supports Demenko's candidacy, Anatoly Grigorovitch, please vote. Please vote. [[16:18:48]] For-36 Next nominee: Joanie Kessler. Candidate for the People's Front. Whoever supports this candidature, I ask you to vote. Giovanni Kessler, CEO of the European Anti-Fraud Office. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:19:30]] For 177 Next nominee: Jaroslav Bogdanovna from the MP group "The Will of the People". Whoever supports Jaroslav Bogdanovna, please vote, please. [[16:20:00]] For-23 Next nominee: Levchenko Catherine Borisovna This is a candidate for Peter Dustenk's Block. Who supports the candidature of Lejchenko Catherine Borisovna, please vote. [[16:20:32]] For a hundred and Thank you. Next candidate: Mary Butler. It's a candidate for the People's Front and public structures, deputy head of the asset confiscation and money-laundering department of the United States Department of Justice. Whoever supports this candidature, Mary Butler, please vote, please support. [[16:21:08]] For 233 Thank you for your support, this is an important step of the symbolic Ukrainian Parliament. Eighth candidature: Ništuk Evgen Mikolaiovich. This is an offer from Peter Dustenk's Block. We're familiar with Destroyer Eugene Mikolaiovich. Whoever supports Eugene, please vote. Destroyer Eugene Mikolaiovich, please vote. [[16:21:46]] For 197 Next: Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich. Candidate for the Opposition Block. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Rabbi Vadim Zinoviovich, please vote. [[16:22:15]] Z-71 Next: Filenko Volodymyr Pilipovich. Offer from the People's Front. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[16:22:40]] For 199 Next: Shabunin Vitaly Viktorovich. A candidate for the Self-Help faction. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Please vote, Shabunin Vitaly Viktorovich. [[16:23:09]] For 206 Next: Shalai Aleksei Stepanovich Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:23:34]] For a-117. Next: Šishkin Viktor Ivanovich. He's a candidate for the Fatherland Party. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich, please vote. [[16:24:02]] For 212 Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. He's a candidate for the Rebirth Party. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. [[16:24:32]] For-32 Thank you for the vote, now it's going to take about 30 seconds for us to count the seven who won the largest number of votes, and now we're going to vote for seven of those candidates who took the largest number of votes in the rating vote. Dear colleagues! The Secretariat has calculated the proposals, and I'll read it to you. If there's a mistake all of a sudden, you'll fix me. So the first position in our vote, Mary Butler, is 233 votes. Very important and symbolic. Second position is Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich, 212. The third position is Shabunin Vitaly Viktorovich, 206 votes. The fourth position is Filenko Volodymyr Philipovich, 199 votes. Fifth position: Destroyer Eugene Mikolaiovich, 197 votes. The sixth position is Gorbachev Vladimir Anatoliyovich, 195 votes. And the seventh position is Levchenko Catherine Borisovna, 192 votes. So we've identified seven of those candidates who got the highest support in the room. These seven candidates are both prominent public figures and well-known experts. And I'm going to propose these seven men put to the vote together. Everyone, please come into the hall, because it takes 226 votes in order for us to be able to confirm this decision. I'm going to re-read the candidates for the board of directors' office in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And I'm going to read these candidates, and you're going to get ready to vote. It is proposed to confirm: Mary Butler, Shishkin Victor, Shabunin Vitaly, Philenko Volodymir, Nistuk Eugen, Gorbachev Vladimir, and Levchenko Catherine. Whoever supports these seven candidates from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Competition Commission at the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, please vote. Please, we have seven candidates to vote on. Support, vote. Please include the voting system. I'd like your support, fellow officers and distinguished national deputies. Vote. [[16:28:39]] For 228 Decision taken. I welcome the Supreme Council, and welcome to our Hall the fact that we are launching an anti-corruption system in Ukraine is an important and responsible decision. Thank you all for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u6	By factions, please: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 110, "National Front" – 68, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 8, "Pradical Party – 1, "Papačina" – 15, "Party of Rebirth" – 4, "Will of the People" – 2, "Factionable – 20. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have one more question: a draft regulation on the definition of candidature. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u7	So we've chosen representatives from the board to conduct a competition for executive positions at the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and I'm asking you to form this decision by decree. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's the question: (registration number 3021) the draft Ordinance on the appointment of a candidate to a competition commission to serve as members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. There is a proposal for a draft decision to be considered by a reduced procedure. This draft decision will be reported by Egor Sobolev. I'd like to make a statement. Procedural issue is the ruling on a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:30:10]] For 155 Decision adopted, 155. Please report to Egor Sobolev, 3021.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u9	Colleagues, I remind you that another new anti-corruption body to open up all officials' declarations is the National Anti-Corruption Agency. It must likewise be chosen for an honest competition. Good work was done by the government, good work was done by the public, helping the government to do good work. There are good people on the competition committee who will elect new members, the first members of the anti-corruption agency. Parliament remained to delegate one person, its representative, to this competitive commission. At the suggestion of the public, we put out a famous lawyer, a professor at the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy, a former dean of the law department of this Academy of Vladimir Suschenka. The Committee of the Supreme Council against Corruption asks you to support this candidature and delegate it from Parliament to elect an anti-corruption agency that will disclose all the statements of all officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u10	Thank you, Your Honor. As I understand it, this issue has been discussed extensively in committees and factions, and there is no objection, yes, as I am informed. Can we vote on the draft ruling? Can we? Please take your seats, colleagues. I'm asking you to prepare Paul Pinzenick on a calendar plan. Colleagues, 3021, draft Decision on the appointment of a candidate for a competitive commission to serve as members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency (registration number 3021), namely, Društnik Vladimir Mikolajovic, associate professor of law at the National University of Kiev-Mogilian Academy. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? In general, please, 3021 as a whole. Please vote, in general. Let's support it, colleagues. [[16:32:49]] For 227 I'd ask for more organized, respected colleagues, more organized. Thank you. Please. Decision taken. We've made a decision and we've identified a candidate. Next, colleagues, a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. There is a proposal to consider this motion for a short-term ruling. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, the reduced procedure for consideration of the Regulations on the calendar plan. [[16:33:31]] For-157. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u11	The honourable, honourable chairman, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, the Committee on Rules at its meeting on September 2, 2015, discussed the issue of amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. In connection with the inclusion in the list of holidays and non-working days, according to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code and the President’s Decree of 14 October 2013 on the Day of the Festival of October 14, Ukraine’s Defender’s Day. The Committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the holding of the third session and recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decision on the basis and as a whole. In addition, at the suggestion of MP factions, it is proposed that a week from October 12th to October 16th this year be set up to work on committees, commissions, factions and groups. Please support this draft of the ruling, taking into account the last solicitation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. It's about doing a week of committee work from 12th to 18th. I want to inform you, my dear colleagues, we actually have two thousand laws on the committee's agenda. Accordingly, there is no week of work in October on the committees. Please have a proposal for a discussion: two for, two against. Please sign up for two, two for the other. National Deputy Babi Yuri Yuriovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u13	The People's Front faction wants to support the changes to the calendar plan and not turn the Supreme Council's rostrum before the election into a free agitation platform, but to work on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u14	Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u15	Please pass the word to my colleague from Peter Dustenka's Block, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u16	Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the Peter Prashenka Block also supports this decision, and we think that we really need all the factions today alone because we often don't have the same level of legislation that, for example, comes from the government, we don't get to see them on committees in time. There are 2,000 bills in our Committee on European Integration today that need an expert evaluation. And so we propose that we really use this time to work very well on the bills, on the changes to those bills that we are going to vote on today, which are important, in the first reading, and to support the changes to this calendar plan. That's very right. And, Mr. Head, there's an offer for you that we've already made. You know, right now we've got almost a Parliament working a year, we've started rotating, including committee heads. We may still have to do the same with a brief report from the committee heads, because there are many questions about the work of the session hall, but there are also some committees. And it's important that both the committees and the heads be able to present their work and the issues of cooperation with the expert environment, and the issues of cooperation with government ministries that are sensitive to any committee. Thank you. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u18	Please, wolf. Easy. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear National Deputies! Perhaps someone has not figured out what question we are considering. Our distinguished colleague Lucenko said a few days ago that before the elections, Parliament should be closed and left altogether. And go back after the election. This is a draft decision that they have made that three weeks before the election the Supreme Council should not work in plenary mode. That means they're going to falsify the election, film candidates, break the law, and we won't be able to inform the public about it from the highest parliamentary rostrum, because we're still not invited on television. For those of you who offer to stop working in plenary for three weeks, I ask, have you solved all the problems of the people? Today, their wages were raised, their debts canceled, their milk prices raised, and jobs were given. I understand that there are family arrangements here in Parliament, and they can go on vacation for three weeks and not three weeks. But millions of people cannot rest. And they spent billions of dollars a year in elections to help parliament solve the country's problems. As you can do for three weeks, with Russian aggression, with the catastrophic decline of the economy, millions of people are unemployed, we go in winter with payments that people should hang from, and parliament goes out for a walk, whether in the county or in the committee or on vacation. The one who makes this decision is irresponsible politics. Don't fool people! You want to falsify elections, you want to hide from people, you want us as opposition to shut our mouths so we don't even have the opportunity to tell the truth of how you're breaking the law, and how you're bullying Ukrainian citizens! I call on all democratic factions, whether coalition or opposition, not to deceive people or not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u20	Dear fellow national MPs! Let me say a few words. I'd like you to listen, because this is about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, the idea of a committee week is that you and I have 2,000 laws that no one has considered on the committees, and some committees have very rarely. The point is that we cannot ensure that quality laws are submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have set a priority today -- 70 laws that I would hope would be considered in factions of Parliament and could be the basis for our further legislative work. I also want to inform you that there are plenary sessions of the Supreme Council in plenary mode, and there are not in plenary mode, and this is also work. Not that they went to the rostrum, for 10 minutes they talked about nothing, they smashed the air, and then they left, and there's no one. I insist that of this week's 12th number, committee week, I'm kind of a tough order, totally public, with a name list of people who work on committees. We'll provide where it's technically possible now, a direct broadcast of the committee meeting. You can say anything you want on the air. But I demand a completely new, quality job from the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am convinced that most of the members of the Supreme Council understand that. So I'm counting on you and I to be able to work with you in October for a good week on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is under the personal responsibility of each of us, and it is fundamentally important. What if we believe that the work of Parliament is to speak only from the rostrum? I think it's a piece of work. We need to make decisions and take responsibility for them. I urge everyone to take their seats. Prepare for the vote. I will make sure that the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are broadcast. Secure. You'll all see who's coming and where. It's live. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. Ready? Let's vote in favour of the calendar plan as a whole, according to the committee head's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u21	Please prepare and vote in favour of the Order on changing the calendar plan. Vote please, Your Honor. Signal vote. Please. [[16:44:10]] For 196 They say not everyone got in. I'm asking my fellow MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please prepare again before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u22	I'm sorry, one minute, please note that we don't have a week's work on the committees in October that we're going to consider? That's what this is about: creating a full week. Ready? You have enough laws, I know. Colleagues ready to vote? Not yet? Please take your seats. Please, colleagues. Dear colleagues, we need to understand that by name: who will be present, who will not be present, we will send this information as it is. Please, colleagues, let's re-vote the issue of changes to the calendar plan. Ready? One week in October to make a committee. One is committee. Please, Your Honor, we are voting on the calendar. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, calendar plan, according to the committee's version. [[16:46:11]] For 210 It's better, it's better, dear colleagues. Yeah, I think so. Come on, colleagues, let's do it again. Okay, colleagues, I think we can get back to that tomorrow. Dear colleagues, national deputies, we have arrived, according to a letter, Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov and Attorney-General of Ukraine Viktor Mikolaiovich Shockin with information on the events of August 31st near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is an offer before we go to the question is made by Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka. He made an offer that agreed with all the factions of Parliament, a draft decree to mark the 80th anniversary of Boris Oilynik's birth. This question was raised by Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. If that's what your will is now, we can now consider this decree to mark the 80th anniversary of Boris Oilynik and then listen to the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General of Ukraine. I'm going to put Anatoly Sergiyovich's proposal to the vote right now, a draft decree to mark the 80th anniversary of Boris Ivanovich Olijnik's birthday for 80 years. Please identify yourself, Your Honor, by voting. Boris Ivanovich Olijnik 80 years old. Integrating in the daytime order of this decision and making a decision. Vote. [[16:48:59]] For 228 228 -- decision taken. It's on the order of the day. Anatoly Matvienko, please. Calm down a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u23	Guys, I want to go to all the factions, because with all the factions, this question has been reconciled. A group of people's deputies put forward a draft decree marking Boris Illich Oilynik on the occasion of his 80s. I understand that each of us has the right to go to the church, which ideology to practice, but Boris Olijnik is a Ukrainian who has lived his life and has never betrayed the interests of Ukraine. You can be criticized for some position, but I think he's done a lot. Now he's in severe physical condition, he's sick, October 22, his birthday, 80 years old. This is a modest decision, I would like us to vote on it and propose that we put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal on the basis and in a total of 3077 Boris Ivanovich Olenik, please vote. On the basis and in general, the bill of decree. Boris Ilchi Olinik, I beg your pardon. Boris Ilchi Oliynik, please don't speak, we vote. [[16:50:29]] For 234 The draft decision was adopted by 234 votes to one. Thank you. Please welcome to the rostrum of Minister of Interior Arsen Borisovich Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u25	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! Today, with the permission of the procedural heads of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the investigators of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, I will inform you of the results of the work on investigating the tragic events that took place on August 31st at the Supreme Council. According to the report, 157 law enforcement personnel, the National Guard, and civilians, including 110 from the grenade explosion, were killed. There are still 81 people in the station. One fighter in a state of distress. This was the result of preplanned and organized provocation. Its aim, according to one version of the investigation, was to destabilize the country and plunge it into widespread violence and armed civil opposition. And the terrorist act itself and the mass turmoil were united in one criminal scheme. There is good reason to believe that this was meant to be done by a specially trained group of people to organize mass disturbances under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament and to use them to mask the main blow -- the bloody attack. The same was done, not by a single terrorist, but by an organized group of individuals. By all indications, this was not a random grenade throw, but part of a single destabilization plan. At the same time, mass riots were an integral part of this crime scene. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, a terrorist act was carried out in mass action with the use of a grenade. I'm going to show you some photos and videos that prove that this was a purposeful premeditated crime. It has been established that on September 18, three individuals are directly related to the commission of a terrorist act. One of them is a performer, we'll call his person one, and two of the others have been involved in his encounter of masking his actions during the throwing of grenades and securing his departure from the scene. We'll call them the appropriate person 2 and the person 3. Mass riots began after the vote for constitutional changes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and could in no way affect the result of this vote. The main initiators of the fights were activists from the "Freedom" street community. In no way were the units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Guard causing such baseless violence, even the opposite, limiting themselves to the maximum in the use of force against aggressive rallyers. Evidence of this is the fact that the OAS and hospitals were not asked to receive bodily harm while resisting the protestors themselves. Instead, as a result of massive disturbances in circumstances that were not associated with the grenade explosion, 40 law enforcement officers were injured in the form of fractures, bruises, wounds, and beatings. In the course of the investigation, more than a hundred aggressive citizens were subjected to foot -, - and - arm blows, specially prepared sticks and wooden sticks, posters, and helmets, shields, and gas bubbles were sprayed with irritable gas. As a result, several of the Nazis were injured because their means of individual protection, shields, and helmets were taken away by aggressive protestors. To date, 22 people have been reported suspected of causing mass disturbances and causing bodily harm to law enforcement officials. With regard to ten other offenders, the report of the suspicion is agreed with the Attorney General’s Office and the issue of their announcement and selection of appropriate precautions will be resolved without delay. In addition, 17 persons have been arrested by the court, and three other precautions have been taken that are not related to the deprivation of liberty. However, the suspect has already. One suspect has already been reported wanted. It is known that former Ukrainian national deputies are among those who have suffered bodily harm. I want to point out that in this case, it is not about political persecution in any way, and the legal evaluation is given exclusively to the specific actions of the individual. I suggest you take a look at the fragment of the videos that we brought to the Supreme Council. I'd like video number one to show to the people's deputies. [[Video recording broadcast]] In this video, you can see in red some of the episodes that we're investigating of suspected activists who are involved in mass disturbances. Part of these individuals have already been reported as suspects and precautions have been taken. Regarding several of them, there are still appropriate follow-up actions. Former Minister of the Ukrainian Government. The events of August 31st under the Supreme Council were preceded by a series of other important events, which were highlighted by the investigation, namely: on August 26 members and the leadership of WO "Freedom", such as Tajnibok, Orotuk, Helevey and Krivetsky, arrived late in the evening in the city of Kurahovo Donetsk. The next day, on the 27th, they had an official meeting with the fighters of the Navy's Sitch in the city of its location. After the official meeting of Tragnibok, Orotyuk, Heleway and Krivetsky, they asked the battalion and the fighters who were not members of the Freedom Party to leave the premises. Thereafter, the leaders of this political force, along with their 15-20 supporters, conducted private interviews. They were also attended by a person who is now duly suspected of committing a terrorist act. After this conversation with the supporters of the Freedom VO in Kurahov Tajnibok, Orotyuk, Heleway and Krivetsky went to the village of Vodjane to the location of the Batalion "Karpatsch" which is part of the 93rd Mechanized Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. There they also held an official meeting, photography, and private interviews, and then went back to Kiev. Please show slide 1 on which these guests are located, along with person number 2, who is now under arrest and suspected of committing a terrorist act. The next day, after these private conversations, on the 28th, both suspected of committing a terrorist act went to the city of Kiev. One of them, a person 1 on Saturday 29 August, wrote a report on discharge from internal affairs at his own request, motivating this decision with a low level of wage. The same has been done by several others fighting the Sitch militia battalion. Please show slide number 2 is the person 1 report. To the extent that these meetings are related to the "Freedom" leadership's involvement of specific individuals in the commission of the attack, it will be verified in the course of the investigation. According to the information received, it was from individuals like 1 and 2 that a group was formed to destabilize the situation during the August 31st massacres, including the use of several, several, I emphasize, combat grenades. As a result of an antiterrorist act under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 117 people were injured by the use of a grenade, including 110 law enforcement officials and the National Guard. Three guards: Igor Debrain, Dmitry Slastykov, and Alexander Costina — died. Another is still in a severe coma. [[A Minute of Silence]] I thank you for your respect. The following operational group with available technical capabilities is already under way, and this work is still going on, very large amounts of video materials that have been provided by representatives of the media, the media, the Internet network, and the great video surveillance cameras. This enabled the rapid establishment and detention of suspected persons involved in the commission of a terrorist act and the painting of those terrible events. I'm going to show you some photos and videos that prove that this was all a purposeful and premeditated crime. Please prepare. Please show the prepared materials. First you look at it in real time, and then I'll show it to you with comments in slow form. Video number two, please. [[Video recording broadcast]] The surveillance camera at the Dnipro Hotel recorded the suspect's movements on Gruszewski Street. Time - 13.16. I'm reminding you, we had an explosion at 13.43. Then it's clearly visible after the 1st, 2nd and 3rd chambers of the Dnipro Hotel were fixed, then there's a camera recording where we see it being moved directly down the street of Gruszewski. There's a man with a backpack. This is Dnipro Hotel's surveillance camera. These are the security cameras that we have in public places. They belong to hotels or to private individuals or to government entities. Here he comes. Then he is seen at the crime scene along with his associates. He brings a grenade into combat in his backpack, after which person 2 makes a smoke curtain to mask the very throwing grenades. Now person 3 is getting a phone call from person 1, following him, leading him to the crowd. Now he's sitting there making grenades, inserting lighters. Then, the person 2 makes a smoke screen to mask the throw of the grenade itself. You'll see. Here's the deal they're making. After that, he passes on the first smoke hammer. Person 1 was about to drop a grenade. The smoke is disintegrating, he's waiting for another disguise. It didn't work. Person 2 tries to burn the next checkbook, but the person grabs the checker and throws it in the direction of the guards. There's no masquerade. Person 2 is looking for a new checkbook, finding it, running to Person 1, but it's too late. Person 1 has already dropped the grenade. There she is. There's a grenade coming out, and the check's coming out. Here, take a look. Have respect for this. Person 2's coming up. He's waiting. He's looking for Person One. It's looking around. They're here. He's coming. Now you can take a closer look at something that you didn't understand, with explanations. Now they're turning fires into grenades, you see. A RGO grenade, like a grenade: a lighter separately, a plastic one. He should be treated with caution, so he twists it directly before use. We have several video sources, huge amounts. No, it's not a special week. [[B in m in s a l in]] We had about 50 sources. You'll see, even in this crowd, you've filmed people. He gives him the first checkbook from his backpack, where he has two grenades. Then I'll report it. I don't know who he is, and he says, "Sit down, I'm going to smoke the curtain." He's sitting down. He set the checker on fire and now he's putting it in the square, but people go around and say, "Throw it away. Let's take a breath." Person 2 is waiting, he can see that he's not there. I remind you, he had plans to drop two grenades. So he prepared two grenades: one he turned, the next he turned, and then the smoke spread. He needs another cover. He put his hand in his backpack and he's waiting for it to go out. The grenade is on the battle force, so he walks like this, hand in hand. I sat down again. They're negotiating. We can't speed it up. We'll be done in a minute. You see, now the person, yes, is distracted, and this person rips out his checkbook and throws it. That's why he didn't do masking number two. And already person 1 has made the decision to quit, person 2 is already asking for some sort of disguise after that. Throwing a grenade into the crowd, you see, its own, it's already flying. They look, they find each other, and they start to walk away. Once again, we used the order of the 50 different angles for the original analysis of the video. There was also an operational shoot, and there was a film that we were given by journalists, and almost all the journalists gave it to us. There was also a recording of the mobile phones, so when they accepted this person, which I'm about to say, they've already used this fragment. I will now inform you of the actions of the suspects immediately after the throwing of grenades before their arrest. Following the task force set up leaving the scene of the crime, the person 1 went into green plantings across from the Supreme Council there kneeling, he put an olive shirt on black, took off a medical mask, put all these things in a backpack. These evidences were taken into custody by a suspect who was removed along with another grenade of war and attached to the investigation materials. After the change of clothes, the person 1 went through the green plantings into the Vatutina monument with the number 2 person, give a slide. It has been determined that after the change of clothes, 1 person met 2 at General Vatutin’s monument, together they went to the Park of Mariin, followed, crossed the street of Gruszewski, and found that they were not persecuted and dispersed. Person 1 went to Arsenal Metro on his own, where he was detained by the SAF and the police. Person 2 received a telephone call from the person 3 passing through the Kripos alley on the street of the Institute, descends on Majdan Independence. There he was detained with face masks and smoke checkers similar to those used during the masking of a terrorist act. In addition, I can report the fact that person number 1 in the process of reviewing the documents and detaining has actively resisted the employees of the BSS and the militia using the tear gas Terren-4. Thanks to the professional activities of the police and the BSS, they did not allow the suspect to use the second grenade already in the subway, which was brought into combat by the Arsenal Metro, even near the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the territory of the Constitution. Our main task right now is to find out the motives behind these young people to commit such a terrible act, who is the customer, the ideologist and the organizer of these crimes. There are several factors that all suspects combine: they are active members of the Sokol NGO, which in turn is a youth centre and has a bearing on the "Freedom" political party. On this slide, we see suspects: person 1, person 2 and person 3 along with the symbol "Sokil" as well as the group with the same VHO "Sokil" and "Freedom." On the next slide, suspect 1 and person 2 are photographed on the pre-election flyer W.O. Freedom. We stress that this terrorist act was premeditated and well - organized. This is evidenced by a number of additional facts that I cannot tell you right now without divulging the secret of the investigation. Let me just say that it's just coincidence that we didn't have the opportunity to use the second smoke screen to blow the second grenade into the Supreme Council building. The investigation also works to establish other members of the groups, who, according to previous investigation reports, were prepared to commit a larger terrorist act by throwing several combat grenades into the Ukrainian Parliament building. This would be a signal for the use of force by the police and the Nachwardia, including firearms, in response to the impact of a grenade. It is worth noting that all the formal legal grounds for using weapons in response to a military grenade at the Ministry of Defense in that case were, in accordance with Ukrainian law and other legal acts of Ukrainian law. And only through the endurance, courage, and self - sacrifice of law enforcement officials, the consideration of their leadership, which did not yield to the provocative action of terrorists, and the command to use force and weapons, has it been possible to prevent greater and bloodier consequences. And that's the huge difference between how the police behaved during the Maidan Dignity Revolution and how the law enforcement was leading now in mass action. All those responsible must be held accountable to the law, and I, as Minister of the Interior, will do everything in my power to do so. And for the rest of you, I ask you to honor once again the moment of silence of the dead guards. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you for your attention, thank you for your respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u26	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich, for your information. Please welcome the information of Attorney General Šokin Viktor Mikolaiovich of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u27	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Mr. Head! Just now, the minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Avakov, provided scientific and detailed information on the course of the investigation of the criminal conduct in question in connection with the August 31st events. Thank you. I just want to add to the fact that the U.K. Attorney General's Office is actively promoting this investigation and is taking part in it. And I want to assure you that the investigation is being conducted at a highly professional level, and there is no violation of the CPC. I want to assure you that the investigation will be completed in the shortest terms. And now I want to let you know the following. I am very grateful to Mr. Lazko for this comparison. However, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is investigating the criminal conduct of serious and particularly serious crimes committed by one of Ukraine’s national deputies. Investigations carried out investigations. I would particularly like to draw your attention to the fact that all the evidence gathered in the course of these investigational actions that have been carried out in compliance with all the CPC rules, and therefore have full evidence, is evidence of this criminal conduct. In addition, other evidence has been gathered in the course of the investigation, which fully and objectively confirms the guilt of the national MP. With the permission of the procedural officer in charge of this criminal activity, I want to show you one of the pieces of the investigative search. I would like to point out and point out that these crimes are committed by the Ukrainian National MP at a time when our heroes are killed in the East and under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, protecting you, honourable deputies, have given their lives to three militia officers and hundreds injured. Please take a very close look at this fragment. Please include the fragment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u28	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You've seen the eye. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u29	Guys, I don't see anything funny here, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, you've just seen for yourself how it forms its property, the Radical Party's money, which goes to the polls, they're running out of money. Or is there not enough on Capra, Mr. Lazko? That's what happens, yeah. In view of what you have just seen, I request that the honourable national deputies immediately give their consent in this room to bring criminal responsibility, arrest, and arrest of the people’s MP Moseschuk. Here's my answer to that question. I'm asking you very much in this room right now, because Mr. Lazko will say that someone has fled again so that Mosisiczuk will not escape.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, national MPs! This is a great disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament and probably the corruption that has recently been discussed from various microphones and rostrums. Dear colleagues, I'm shocked to see you now. And I think we have to act like completely honest people and protect parliamentaryism, despite the fact that there is a lousy sheep in our flock. Dear colleagues, the Attorney General of Ukraine has just filed a report on the criminalization and arrest of the national MP we saw in the video. I'm making this offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm making an offer for getting in line. Misiyczuk. I'm betting on voting to put this issue in the agenda right now and immediately consider it. Now, immediately, without delay. I would like to vote in favour of the decision of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine to arrest and arrest the People's Deputies of Mosiyczuk. Please vote and please support. Shame! Please vote. [[17:31:24]] For 289 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring criminal responsibility and arrest Igor Mosiyczuk, Ukrainian national deputy. Vote. Draft Decision on the Involvement of Criminal Responsibility and the Arrest of Mosiyczuk, Ukrainian National Deputy of the Radical Party. Igor Mosiyczuk! Vote! Vote! [[17:32:01]] For 262 It's been decided. I'm giving an order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare this document for me immediately, and I'll sign it, and everything else you'll be telling from the television screens. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u32	You'll be in charge of the faction. You'll be on the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m1.u33	The meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Stop!
