ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, good evening! We're taking our seats in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can register, open an evening meeting and start our work or continue our work. Please take our seats, colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We can start our work. Please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for registration, and start our work, please. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[16:10:50]] 324 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule, you and I have a number of questions that need to be considered in the first reading. Thus, draft Law 2016a amended the Law on Local Self-Government concerning Personal Personal Voting by People’s Deputies. More specifically, a roll call by members of the local councils. This bill has been drafted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Hanna Hopko. And there's an offer from the author, given that we have two hours of quality work there, to consider this bill in a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please settle down and support Hannah Hopko for a reduced procedure. Let's start the discussion and move on. Is there no objection? Please support me. Let's have a signal vote on the short-term review procedure of the 2016 Act. The short law on the roll-call vote of local council members is democratic. Please support the simplified procedure for discussion. Under the reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:13:31]] For 116 I turned it on to be a magical sound, so everyone could start going back to their places, the voting system. Please, Your Honor. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2016a is the law, literally, for one sentence to ensure a nominal vote on local councils. But there is a suggestion that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. Please, with regard to the consideration of this law by a reduced procedure, please support, vote. [[16:14:25]] For 135 Well, almost, almost. Colleagues, once again, I propose: 2016a under reduced procedure. Please. We need 150 votes. Please be supportive. [[16:15:27]] For-146 Four votes. Now I'm going to make this proposal again so that we can start the discussion. Please, colleagues, please repeat: 2016a, summary procedure. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure, please support. Please support me. [[16:15:58]] For a hundred and Anna Hopko, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! This bill is short, simple, but extremely important, because it is called upon to make the vote in the local councils nameable and its results publicly available. Any Ukrainian citizen can go to the Parliament website and see how a specific MP voted for what decision. Sadly, this is not the case with members of the local council. Only a few local councils in the Ternopil region of Lviv, in Zakarpatt, have voluntarily passed the roll call. But paradoxically, for the rest of the local councils, the names were only a right, not a duty. That's why this initiative is designed in collaboration with public organizations: "For the roll-call vote," "The Movement of Volunteers," "The Space of Liberty," "The Reanimation Package of Reforms." Experts of local self-government, as well as representatives of all the factions represented here in Parliament, have just submitted this bill, which changes four. important changes to article 59 of the Law on Local Self - Rule. First of all, all decisions of the councils will be taken by an open-ended roll-call vote. Secondly, the results of the roll-call vote are subject to mandatory publication, as well as to a request under the Public Information Act. Thirdly, if the council has an official website, all the results are published on the website on the day of the vote and stored on an open-ended basis. And fourthly, the results of the roll-call vote, which is the name of the result, and not just the nudity numbers for or against, become an integral part of the session protocol. The adoption of this law will make the work of the local councils, which have just been elected, much more transparent, and of the deputies to the more accountable citizens of Ukraine. Please vote this simple but very important law in the first and in general. I will be very grateful for the support of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u3	Thank you. Please report to Sergey Vlasenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, it is a very simple but very necessary law to make the work of the local authorities absolutely transparent and understandable to the inhabitants of the communities for which these local deputies work. Indeed, the law was essentially in one line, and that is why, with this in mind, the committee on September 2, this year at its meeting recommended to the Supreme Council, as a result of the first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. The only thing I'm worried about right now is the number of national deputies in the session room, because I think I'm about 170. Maybe Mr. Head, maybe we'll finish the discussion, have a successful vote later, because I don't see people in the room yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u5	I'm good. We'll try to vote now. Please two for, two for against. Oksana Jurinec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u6	I would like to urge this House to vote in favour of this bill, it is very important, because quite often local councils motivated it by the lack of funds. For example, this "Council" system, which is in the Lviv District Council, is the "More" system, it costs some resources. I understand that if a bill is adopted, such resources can then be found in the state budget. But it is important and necessary to be transparent and to make the right decisions that will be formulated and shown on the site of the local council. Thank you and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u7	Please, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u8	Please give the floor to my colleague Guziu, who was a member of the local council for 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u9	Igor Volodymyrovich, please. He's not alone, Maxim Yuriovich. He's not alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u10	Dear friends, it is unfortunate that there are so few deputies in the hall. It's very sad! Mr. Groissman, there's something we need to do with this. But I urge all MPs to support this bill, it's useful. The thing is, really, there are three buttons in the Supreme Council -- you see the position of every deputy. Let's take this to the local self-government authorities accordingly, so that people can see how local council members vote. Therefore, the bill is clearly useful and necessary. Sadly, though, the number of people present in the hall will overwhelm him. Let's make it go through anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u12	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, if we're talking about a norm like openness, there's no doubt it needs to be maintained. But let's see what's happening today in our practical lives. As far as big politics is concerned, no member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will accept what the "old brother" dictates. It's about foreign policy, it's about pressure, let's say, from the President's Office, from the Minister's Office, he doesn't want to. And for some reason, we take the authority and take the initiative to teach local authorities how to vote and make this procedure open. In my opinion, the strength, let's say, of the Lviv region is that they came to this. They came consciously, and they profited from it. But perhaps someone does not want to do so. So the same community of the same region is looking and taking and deciding who doesn't want to work openly. That's the same effect. Today we're told, we've been offered these things, a whole series of Grantoid organizations. They're starting to teach us how to do it again, as our colleagues from abroad see it. To my profound conviction, this project essentially proposes that the rights of local self-governance authorities be abolished, that it be determined by the use of the secret voting procedure. I worked for the Kharkiv City Council, the Kharkiv District Council. And when it was necessary to maintain my position, which included the Ukrainian language, the adaptation of this legislation, I was never personally ashamed and expressing my position. I find it unacceptable to put pressure on local authorities and force them to live as we suggest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u13	Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u14	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! At the morning session, we talked to you about a change to the Rules of Procedure Act, which should explain our work here in the session room. But here, in today's bill, we're talking about an institution that provides a bottom-up solution to real politics. It's where the real life of our population is. And that's trust in power. Therefore, full vote by local councils, villages, villages, cities, areas and areas will allow civil society to control, not specifically, the number of factions or deputies who voted there, but the specific MP who took the stand. I also want to say that it's not just about the MPs. Since there is still such an executive body at the level of local self - government as executions. And I urge you to join our next initiative. Because there's going to be a bill that also explains the work of the Mesquikonoms. Because the question of regional content is also a very important issue, and this is reconstruction, this is also construction, this is also in the area of trade, and everything else. So there is a request from the entire room today to support this bill, and those wishing to join the next bill, which will refer to the vote of the collegiate body -- by doing so, to put their signatures in place. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bezbach. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u16	Dear People's Deputies, distinguished Chairman! I would like to express my gratitude to the people who have introduced and drafted this bill. I think it's the most important law today. Why? Because we don't teach anyone, we're talking about openness today, and it has to be. Because today, in a situation of decentralization, we're going to see who, like, votes for. There'll be money, there'll be everything! We'll see who's voting. Look, there's going to be pay at the level of the Presidents. Clever question: wage is small, but there are travel, leisure, leisure, re-enactment schedules, and wages charge 30,000. And now we're going to look at the working conditions of the people who have to work. And we don't teach them, they'll vote for themselves. Thank you so much for having the Supreme Council open today. We can see who's here, who's voting for what. Thank you so much! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, please give me a minute, Ivan Rybak. Then there's the People's Deputy Solovay. And we'll finish the discussion, we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u18	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, many in society are busy discussing the discussion. But let's face it, the main cause of corruption today is the closure and, above all, the closure of local self-government. Because the question of land or property, or the question of budgetary resources, or the appointment of directors of one or the other utilities, is primarily the question of the competence of local self-government authorities. And today, we find information on who voted, on which it is virtually impossible for an average citizen. And of course, a lot of thanks to the people who have drafted this bill and who are opening up local self-government to the public and giving people the answer to the question, who are voting for corruption schemes and who are voting for things that society is demanding today. So I urge all the national MPs to unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Ivan Rybak. Please take your seats, MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! 202 constituency, Ivan Rybak, Cherniewec district. Let's support this bill. Moreover, this bill still contains rules of secret balloting, particularly when it comes to the election of local authorities. Why do we vote in favour of the Supreme Council in open voting today, while at the same time choosing the leaders of local self - government bodies in a secret, secret way? In addition, the bill puts equal opportunities on the part of those who today have the "Race" system and use it, and those who do not have it at all. In particular, small district councils in the Chernivecki region, such as Vidinicka, Putilska, have never had a "rada" system at all, and they have always worked openly, raising their hands, that is to say by name. So let's support, let's put everyone at the same level and give everybody equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u21	Yes, thank you. Please, Illenko Andrey, one minute. And then Oleg Barn. And we'll vote. Then Oleg Barna. Please, Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u22	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. My fellow Members, I very much hope that Parliament will now vote in favour of this law. It is indeed a very important reform, it is an opportunity, indeed, to work transparently with local self-government authorities, to see who is voting for, no one here will be able to hide from the watchful eye of their electorate. But I would like to do the same, hoping that the decision will come through now, and still ask, probably, the MPs, especially those who co-sponsored this legislative initiative, let's settle yet another issue that concerns us directly. This is what is happening in the Supreme Council, unfortunately, today there is no nominal vote on the committees that are sitting in the Supreme Council. It's also very important. Because it is on the Committees of the Supreme Council that very serious issues are being considered, and it is very important that there be a roll-call vote that would be fixed on the Internet, and everyone saw on the committee who lobbies what schemes and who fights them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u23	Thank you. As for the committees, my colleague, there's actually going to be such a roll-calling system for your support, now technical rearms. This will take into account for the public work since the beginning of the bill and its complete passage. Please, Oleg Barna. You know, colleagues, before Oleg Barna tells us, we're now discussing local self-government, and it would be appropriate if you wouldn't object to doing ad hoc, and consider Law 3490, this is about regulating the budgets of the united communities. These people, they're asking, and all associations are asking us to support them. If you don't mind and we have a successful vote, 3,490 just look, it's found support in all the factions and it's applied to local budgets technically. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u24	Oleg Barna, the Peter Dust Block. Colleagues, local authorities, are the foundation of the first chain of government. This authority comes from the people, and they are also responsible for making decisions. As a village head, I can say that this law was essential, as a minimum, when we created our independent Ukrainian state. Because the manipulations by the deputies for their votes when they, by covering up one or the other criteria, or in other words, refused to vote, said that they were being closed and insincere. So now this law will allow us to revive the very democracy of local self-government, to restore the responsibility of the deputies and, above all, their independence. Because it will be by the vote that you can see who is lobbying for their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u25	Thank you. Take your seats, dear fellows. Issues of local self-government, voting, public vote 2016a. And now I'm going to put this bill to the vote by the decision and conclusion of the committee to adopt the bill as a whole. And I'm going to put a signal vote now, I'm asking everyone to unite, this is a completely public work of local self-government. Alert vote on the roll call vote in the city’s, local councils. Please, colleagues, a signal vote, please support all of this bill on a basis and in general. Please vote, this is a signal vote, please. [[16:32:25]] For 218. We have voices, I see. But, colleagues. I see. Please, colleagues, take your seats. And we have deputies. Colleagues, please give me another signal vote, I think we've had enough votes. Colleagues, we vote! Signal vote, 2016a on the opening vote of local self-government authorities. Please vote. Signal. Please support me. [[16:33:26]] For 236 236, law. More precisely, the number of votes needed is a signal vote. And now in the second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[16:33:48]] For 236 Dear colleagues, I have a proposal: 3,490, that what the territorial communities are asking for, which are united to provide funding for budgets, please support for ad hoc, now consider this issue. 3490 is the budget and the territorial communities of the united. Shall we all support it? Please, please. Please support this proposal, these are the local budgets of the united territorial communities, which have been brought together to have funding mechanisms. Please support ad hoc 3490. 3490, please support everyone completely in independence, because we have united territorial communities all over Ukraine, independent of political views. 3490, please vote, ad hos. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:34:48]] For 234 Thank you, Your Honor, 234. Is there a need for change, for additions, for a vote of 3,490? Vote. We vote in the second reading and in general. All in all, this project is 3,490? Vote? Well, let's vote on the 3,490 project. Let's give the signal on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Vote. Signal's on. Vote, please. [[16:35:36]] For 221 221, the signal, but the four deputies didn't vote as I see it. Can I put it to a vote in general? That's the question. Please give me a minute, Sergey Melnik. Let Sergey Melnik explain, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? All right, that's when I figured it out. 3490 in the first reading on the basis and in general accept with the Committee's proposals — to support the united territorial communities. All hands, colleagues, 3490. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:36:26]] For 242 The law's been passed. Thank you. This is a completely technical decision that will allow the united communities to develop very actively. Thank you, colleagues. 2016 we voted. 3106: Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government bodies as a legal person. It is also a union of local communities. Ivanovich Kulichenko. There is an offer by the author of a reduced procedure. So there's a 3,490, we've approved. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. 2983 also, we need 150 votes. [[16:37:12]] For 178. Thank you. Please, Ivanovich Kulichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, on October 25, the elections were held in 159 united communities. Some questions have already been resolved today, including the re-registrations and the budget. But there are many problems associated with the fact that united communities should have the legislative capacity to eliminate those councils that were now united. This procedure has never been followed. And there's property, utilities, programs that are important for the future. The second question is, today’s laws do not take into account the characteristics of communities, since this need for unity was not before. And the main issue is, of course, the budget, this year needs to be approved, and budgets have been formed by one community, and now they cannot be managed by a united community. Therefore, it is suggested that we take the basis for today’s adoption of the Registration Law as a short - lived program to work together and adopt it in a second reading. Please support, the government supports, the local self-government associations support, so please, the committee supports, please take this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u27	Okay, thanks. Please report to Victor Halasyuk. Please, Victor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u28	Mr. Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, I present to you Bill 3106, submitted by National Deputy Kulichenk and others: to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government bodies as legal persons. Dear colleagues, we must now adopt this very important law to enable us to function properly in the united communities. More than 300 rural, rural, urban councils have already passed this procedure and require re-registering, and the closures require about 1 thousand 200 rural, rural, city councils and their executive committees. Once we've adopted this bill, we'll provide them with a normal reorganization regime, we'll provide them with a normal regime for using old budgets, these unified territorial communities, we'll ensure that municipal property is available. In other words, we will give life to those who believe, those who have already undergone this reform. We have no right with you today to make another decision. That's why there are village heads here today on the balcony who support this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill is also supported by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, which concluded that it does not conflict with the Constitution; the Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill subject to individual observations. Our professional committee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship supports this bill in its first reading on the basis of a single warning that I ask to be recorded under the transcript that comes out of the committee's decision. It is a matter of making changes to article 7 on voluntary unification of the territorial communities to exclude the bill as inappropriate. And so is this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u30	This position is discussed with the drafters. This refers to the deletion of article 7, which I have already heard. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support this extremely important bill in the first reading on the basis and to entrust the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship with preparing it for the second reading on a simplified procedure so that we can solve this problem as soon as possible. And until the second reading, we synchronize it with the standards that we have adopted with you today in the registration bill, about the reform of the registration service. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u31	Thank you. Please two for it, two for it, two for it, sign up and we'll move on. Colleagues, we still have the Law on State Service. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, I want to bring you back just a year ago, even more, to the summer of the past year, when we first started discussing voluntary community reunification. I want to remind you how difficult this law has been when, in the whole range of district and district government administrations, there are people who should be united communities, how they should be united, how the areas should be merged, and only because of the principled position of a whole series of factions did the rule of voluntary unity enter into this law. But I also want to remind you of the second example. When we were still warning and saying that the body of the law should directly write down the norm, the pooling of budgets, the creation of legal persons who would be established on the basis of the united communities, we were told, "Let's move this later." I remember tens and dozens of representatives of small villages and villages and small towns who insisted on incorporating this standard directly into the body of the law on community reunification. It has not been a year since we were forced to return to the same standards. The Fatherland faction insisted on incorporating these norms into the very body of the key law, which would allow much acceleration of this process. That's why, no doubt, we supported the previous law, and the "Fatherland" faction will also support this law, which allows the successors of the united communities to be clearly managed not only by funds but also to represent these communities fully in all authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Sergey Melnik. Sergei Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, we are taking another step in this law to the process of uniting communities, because the main incentive for uniting communities is the ability of our own resources to resolve matters of local importance. This will allow you to create executions, this will allow you to complete the budget period, and this will allow you to carry out secure funding for budgetary institutions in the next budget period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have adopted changes in budgetary decentralization last year. We voted in favour of the Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities. But the situation so far has been that we have not settled the issue of the state registration of these newly created local self - government bodies. This law will allow the newly created authorities of local self - government to proceed with normal procedures, to submit, to register, and to provide for the order of registration. But I would like to point out that a report by the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy pointed out the need to exclude article 7. I would still like to raise that question because I didn't understand what the content and position of the committee was. Perhaps the amendment will be made with you at the level of reprocessing for the second reading. And on the first reading, we will accept the editorial that the authors gave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u37	Please, Yuri Derevyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency, dear Ukrainians, dear inhabitants of the united territorial communities! Bill 3106 is the bill that will allow today to unlock the work of the united territorial communities, their elected heads. Most importantly, by the end of this year, to ensure the use of the funds provided for in the budgets of those communities that are now uniting together. Where there is no more country head or village head. This bill will provide an opportunity to truly restore the lives and viability of the united territorial communities, now 159 in Ukraine. That's more than 1 million 570,000 of our citizens who are now "lifted" on account of the lack of law enforcement or liquidation, or of working together. I very much ask all of you, all the factions, all the non-fractionals to support this bill both in the first reading and in general, because this is the only opportunity today to restore community productivity. By the time of the new year, they had less than one month to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u39	Thank you. Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u40	Paul Kishkar. We have actually communicated with representatives of the united communities, and it is those who have not united that we have not entered the united communities that have questions before this bill in the form of 13 paragraphs, which refer to making changes to article 10. When, for example, 10 rural councils are united in a promising way and one of them does not want to join the united community, according to article 64 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, such a united community is not currently receiving adequate funding and the distribution of 60 percent of the VAT. And today we make these changes, and this law changes to article 10, where we also prescribe that only those communities, united communities that will meet the outlook, will receive an appropriate, appropriate distribution of taxes. And that raises a lot of questions. That's why we need this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u41	Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. And then the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u42	Dear National Deputies! It is a pleasure to hear that virtually all factions today support this bill. And so the faction of the People's Front has consistently stood up and advocated the support of united territorial communities. And as one of the co-authors of this bill, I also want to emphasize that we have consulted with the authors and we exclude 7 articles from the draft of this law. I would also like to point out that the selected 159 leaders of the united communities and 159 united communities in the last elections must receive funding from the Ministry of Finance. There is an understanding of the government in this regard. I urge everyone to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Kiral, Ukrainian National Deputy. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u44	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. In fact, the bill is extremely necessary, it needs to be adopted in the first reading, because it really changes the process of reorganization by joining the procedure, changing the procedure by eliminating the process of reorganization by joining. This really ensures legal certainty. But I suggest that the second reading, however, provide for the right of the newly formed council, its executive body, to make changes to the decisions taken by the boards that join. This is a very important moment, because we understand that 90 percent of decisions taken by the councils are actually changes to previous decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u45	Thank you. I think that's a very good offer. It should be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Please, Gennady Teeth for 2 minutes and let's move on to the vote. Please take your seats, colleagues. Minister. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u46	I want to thank the people's deputies in general for the full understanding between the government and the Supreme Council, and we are now really working as a living organism, because every reform goes through step by step and every issue that arises in reform must be resolved. The questions raised today by the national deputies, what happens there when the plans for the future are already in place, but the unification has not come according to promising plans. Here, it's just for district government administrations to make adjustments in the long term, and the government will approve. The last proposal made by the National MP is quite correct, because now the new district councils that have come must also have time to get into the process. But we cannot stop because the budget process that starts next year should touch all 159 communities that have already been elected. This is a very important question. And I would like to invite you to vote in the first reading and to put this bill under a reduced procedure so that we can quickly go to the Ministry of Finance on the passports of these united communities, and get into funding from the following year, and finish this process. What I'd like to stress is more. Practically Law 2983, which was voted and supported today by the Supreme Council, and Law 3106, practically solves all the issues so that the newly created united territorial communities can work. The next question I will ask the Supreme Council for support in the new budget in 2016, the state financial support of these united communities. This is according to the Law on the Voluntary Uniting of Communities, and we should demonstrate that the reform that today, according to sociological research, supports 59 percent of the Ukrainians who now expect this reform and the fight against corruption, and the changes in state powers, and the increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u47	Gennady Grigorovich, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u48	And an increase in your authority. That is why we must strengthen this reform financially. I will therefore ask the Supreme Council to support the new state budget in 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I just want to say one thing. We're doing the right thing, creating mechanisms for self-sufficient communities, enabling them to get their own budget, and managing this budget to address the issues of people who choose local self-government. Will there be mistakes? They will be. Can we not count something? We can. But we always have to be absolutely clear about that and loyalty, that if there are certain sheroquities, and we have to step up this path, this reform, the reform of local self-government. This is extremely important. And you will see that more than one and a half hundred communities will be very and very successful. And this is the guarantee of overall economic growth, of our country's growth. Vote, colleagues, 3106 as a basis. Yeah, that's the basis. 3106 based on. Please vote. Please vote on the basis. We're voting on the basis. [[16:54:44]] For 246 The Law was approved in the first reading. Thank you. 3177. And, and colleagues, there was a proposal for a reduced procedure for second reading, I think it's right. So please support this proposal. Preparing for a second reading by a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be supportive. Short procedure for second reading. [[16:55:18]] For 224 All right, guys, let's do it again. Two votes. A brief procedure for preparing this decision for the second reading of this law. I see, I see, I see, I see. Please vote, summary procedure. We need 226 votes, not 150, but 226 votes. Please support the second reading. Vote. Short-term procedure, reduced preparation for second reading. [[16:55:46]] For 221 Even less. Once again, colleagues suggested that the law prepare for the second reading after a reduced procedure, namely, not for two weeks, but for a week. And we're going to be able to vote next plenary week, and we're going to be able to register, we're going to be able to re-register the communities. Ready? Please. 226 votes. The proposal, the preparation for the second reading by a reduced procedure, I ask you to vote. [[16:56:27]] For 240 Thank you. The decision has been made. Dear colleagues, I have here the insistence of our colleague on the very and very principle of Olga Chervakovi of forming a committee of freedom of speech for them. And this is the appointment decree. All right, that's it. All right, good fellows. Thank you. Please, colleagues, let's move on. We're going to vote on the committees. Please, Your Honor, 3177, 3177-1. Arthur Gerasimov and James Bezbach, by summary procedure, please vote, 150 votes. Please be supportive. [[16:57:41]] For 185 Please, Arthur Gerasimov, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the activities of military civilian administrations. This law aims to regulate and harmonize the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil and Military Administrations, which we have adopted in February of this year with the provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine, given the practical experience we have gained in applying this law and organizing the activities of the VCA itself. You know that the question of the implementation of the powers of military and civilian administrations is very important for normalizing the vitality of the population in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation. I'll tell you what, it's suggested that we harmonize a whole range of technical things that come out of the everyday activities of the Lugansk and Donetsk military administrations. For example, it is proposed to amend certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government by aligning them with the provisions of the VCA Act. For example, in the definition of a clear time when the authority of the council is terminated and the execution of the powers of the VCA itself begins. It is also clearly stipulated that on the day of the act of the President of Ukraine on the formation of the VCA, only local government authorities, rather than the state administration, cease to be authorized. State administrations. This is exactly what will normalize the provisions of the Civil and Military Administrations Act with the Constitution of Ukraine. The type of orderly act of the manager of the VCA is also clarified. That must be an order. A list of the VCA’s credentials is clarified, and a position on the approval of the community’s forward-looking plans is added, and so on. With regard to the alternative law, we agreed with the authors that today we will only propose to vote as a basis for all the positive elements of the alternative law to be made during the revision of the law to the second reading. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to uphold this law and vote as a basis. And I want to add that today I received a few calls from the military and civilian administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u51	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u52	Personally from the head of the Luhansk Authority, George Tuki, regarding the fact that this law is essential for the technical functioning of administrations today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u53	Thank you, colleagues. There is no need for a second law report, and the author of the second law supports the previous 3177 as a basis. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, report from the committee. Sergei Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the aggression of the Russian Federation has forced us to introduce a new form of government -- military-civil administrations. You remember the circumstances. We've adopted an appropriate package of laws, military and civilian administrations have begun to work and have taken on the full burden of ensuring the viability of the ATO zone and adjacent territories. Almost a year had passed, and there had been a great deal of technical disagreements, problems. The author of the Law, Arthur Gerasimov, described this in detail, starting with the form of an order, there was an order, ending with relations with other authorities of the State. We've studied carefully, we've studied carefully. By the way, the self-government committee also supports this bill. Please concentrate, adopt this law as a basis. We also had a committee discussion with the authors of the alternative law. We are working on the second reading of a project that, I'm sure, will raise the required number of votes and enable the practical implementation of this law to ensure the interests of the territories that are now in the status of military and civilian administrations. Please focus and support in the first reading and for further processing of it for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u55	Thank you. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Please, Fatherland, Alexy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Donetskina. This is the third time in a year that we have voted and somehow adapted the Law on Civil and Military Administrations to the urgent needs. I think we need to decide whether we have a military situation and we are fully implementing the legislation that we have, or we're making some kind of hybrid and a half decision, that's what we're learning by doing, that we're now normalizing what's not consistent with the Constitution. And I'll tell you why. I'm going to describe the situation that happened in the town of Vyszar of the Donetsk Region in June 2015, where the mayor of Fatherland was until now, remember, from the Fatherland, not the separatists. And according to the U.S.A. Law in force, VCA is formed where local self - government authorities do not exercise authority as a result of self - divorce or self - removal. And as of June 2015, both the City Council and the Executive Committee were fully operational in Wüszar, and there were no lists of the city. On May 26, however, the President of Ukraine signs Decree 285, which gives effect to the decision of the RNB to appoint leaders of the WCA and, in particular, Silić in the city of Wüszar. This was unexpected for the acting mayor of "Fatherland" Kuzmenko and immediately orders that the first signature be declared invalid at the time. And, well, according to the legislation in force, the local council should be dissolved and there is no such decision. On October 25, yesterday, a session was opened in W Wisteria and a mayor was chosen, and the mayor became this Silic, which was made, that is, such a beautiful device that was made. And since we've got the separate mayors who were elected to the Friends (Gnatenko) in Dobropil (Aksionov), that is, these military-civil administrations have done nothing, and here we're doing this equipment -- and we're kicking the mayor out of the Fatherland, and then we're becoming the mayor of some kind of nice person. So these military-civil administrations need to make them really effective mechanisms to fight separatism, not to fight for positions, and they need to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u57	Please, 30 seconds, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u58	I would also like to point out that today the President has not signed Bill 2166 on guarantees of the rights of internally displaced persons and proposes to continue this shameful practice of vetting Ukrainian citizens, who are from Donbas, the migration service. I think we need to end this shameful practice, and we need to fight for the hearts and minds of people, use the soft power, not just the hard power. And that's the only way we can win both the Crimea and the Donbassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u59	Please, Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u60	Please pass the word to Deputy Gerasim.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u61	Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u62	Very short, dear colleagues. A great request, indeed, to concentrate and support this law. I understand that there are certain positions that we need to work out. But that's why I'm asking you to support only on the basis that, in preparation for the second reading, we're actually working together with colleagues from Self-Help, along with colleagues from Fatherland, from the Radical Party, from the People's Front, the position of this law, and he's become, let's just say, taken into account what my colleagues have said to me at the moment. But please take into account that today in your daily activities -- and you see, the number of shootings has increased, the situation is very tense on the collision line -- military and civilian administrations need the technical things that are present in this law. I'm going to focus your attention on technical things. Therefore, it is a great request to uphold this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u63	Thank you. Colleagues, please make an offer. Dear colleagues, the proposal to vote as a basis. I ask everyone to take their seats so that we can vote in favour of this bill. This is about voting on the basis and further processing of second reading. Please, colleagues, let's go in, take our seats. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 3177, a signal vote, please, on a base. Vote. Based on the base. [[17:07:55]] For 197 I didn't get the necessary amount. This signal was a vote. Once again, dear colleagues, the signal vote, stand your ground. Please give the signal vote on the basis of 3177. Please, Your Honor, call 3177. As a result of the discussion, there is a signal vote on the basis. Ready? Ready? Please, Opoblok, please, Matvienkov. One minute, stop the vote, one minute! Dudenkov, Dudenkov, please. Yeah, yeah, it's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, I would also like to announce the position of the opposition bloc on this legislative initiative. In principle, we do not support the idea of military-civil administrations. Why? Because there was a period when it was necessary to create a period of crisis where military-civil administrations had to be established. Regrettably, the current power has turned this institution, which is not constitutional, is not provided in the Constitution as a political instrument to combat dissension, as a political instrument to ignore the views of territorial communities that do not support central government policies. In fact, in many cities where there is no military action, you are replacing military-civil administrations. It is the usurpation of the opinion of the territorial communities and the usurpation of popular sovereignty. We therefore call for the non-support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u65	Please, Sergey Pashinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I beg everyone to pay attention to the essence of this law. Military administrations are already civilian and are working! And to the gentlemen of the Opposition Block, I want to say that they came up not because the authorities wanted to, but because Putin under your screams started military aggression against us! I'm talking to the whole room: let's not pry about what a few million people need to live there. It's not about input or distinction. This is about improving the work that has already been done. Please stop doing this pianist. Let us consider our responsibilities and those of mankind!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u67	We're taking our seats, dear colleagues. Lucenka, one minute, and we vote. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u68	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! I would now like to concentrate and support technical regulations to improve the effectiveness of military and civilian administrations. The citizens of the Opposition Block would like to remind you that the need for military and civilian administrations arose when your former colleagues regionalized, putting in their pants, escaped their jobs from district and district councils, leaving one-on-one fraudulent electorate with terrorists and roadside invaders. The voice now being delivered by the Opposition Block is already close to the minorities. So if you come to the front with this kind of voice, I'm afraid it'll be very conditional. Vote for victory! To the military and civilian administrations!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u69	Please, colleagues: VCA, 3177, base vote. Based on the base. Signal on the base, please. [[17:12:24]] For 206 There are no votes needed. There's an offer to bring him back to the committee for re-reading. For re-reading to the committee, colleagues. Please all support this proposal. One more to the committee, one more time. Again to the committee, please support me, colleagues. We vote again first on Committee 3177, we vote. Vote. [[17:13:03]] For 228 Thank you. 1248: Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the improvement of specific provisions of youth policy and the creation of youth centres). 1248. There is a proposal for a reduced voting procedure. I propose that we go through the first reading and move on to the State Service Act. How are you? Okay? Please, with a reduced procedure of 1248, the author is Ivan Krulko. [[17:13:42]] For 172
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to Bill 1248 on improving the individual policies of youth and setting up youth centres. This bill has been drafted at the request of a number of local youth organizations. It was developed with public experts based on several years of research and many surveys conducted in different regions, specifically in Chernigiv, Lugansk, in the areas of Russian occupation of part of Lugansk. And this law also implements the recommendations of a team of international experts of the Council of Europe. The purpose of the law is to strengthen the interaction of NGOs with authorities, state and municipal institutions, and the implementation of State youth policy. In addition to rights, the Law on Social Welfare also amends the Law on Local Self - Government. That is, this law also strengthens the participation of young people in reform from the decentralization of power. Local governments can create European youth centers. Now we have about 3,000 semi-lethal institutions in different ministries, and none of them have a proper European certificate. The law will allow for the creation, reclassification of centres according to the appropriate quality mark of the Council of Europe. The powers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports are also being specified. The committee reviewed the bill and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. It was a unanimous decision on the profile committee. The bill is also supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. And I would also like to clarify, in article 6.1 of this bill, one position that has become a compromise with the government and that we ask for in the first reading. This is part of the first article 6.1 after the words "youth centers" we add "on the basis of an existing network of institutions." And with that clarification, I'm asking my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u72	And with this clarification, I'm asking the entire room to vote the law as a basis for the first reading, and we're working very quickly on the committee, and that's what youth organizations need right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u73	Thank you. Ivan Sporish. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? Is it? None. Based on the base. This is 1248.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u74	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs. The Committee on Family, Youth, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting on February 3, this year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Improvement of Individual Policies of Youth and the Establishment of Youth Centres) under registration number 1248, submitted by national deputies Krulk, Lozo, Romanov and other national deputies. Of course, the bill requires small funds from government and local budgets. But the Ministry of Youth and Sports really supports the bill as a whole. Because, in fact, as John Krulk has already said, the creation of youth centres will allow young leaders in the legal field to work together with government bodies, institutions, public associations, charitable organizations to provide information and resources from the implementation of public policy in the youth field. Our committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on number 1248 to be accepted as a basis. That's why I'm asking your honourable colleagues to support this bill. And I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, a very urgent question. Bill 2293a, everyone's waiting for him from the Young Guard Children's Center. And I'd very much like you to put him on the agenda today. Because today's Youth Guard is reflected in raids and land grabs in Odessa. We know very well that our children should rest, and most children should still be able to rest at the Youth Guard. And I would very much like us to think for our children, and given.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to vote it now on the basis and continue to prepare for the second reading to work with it We have two more laws that we're going to consider in the first reading, and there are still important laws about scientific and scientific engineering. We will prepare for the second reading. Do we have a deal? And they're gone. Why? Colleagues, please take your seats. The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving Individual Policies of Youth and the Establishment of Youth Centres. Prepared by John Krulko, author of the law. There's a proposal to consider this law, now there's going to be a signal vote, based on the committee's continuing to prepare it for second reading. Wait a minute, colleagues. Please take your seats. Vote. I'd like to support this law as a basis. Please give the signal vote 1248 on a base, please support. [[17:19:57]] For 217 Obviously there are voices. Colleagues! Colleagues, once again, a signal vote of 1248 as a basis. Please support everyone. It's a signal that we don't lose the law. On the basis of that, everyone, please concentrate. Ready? Signal, signal. Let's check it out. Please, let's vote on the basis of the signal vote, I'm asking you to support it. Still, it is a question of young people as a basis. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. [[17:20:46]] For 232 Please, on the basis of this, please support. 1248 on the basis, please vote on the basis. Please vote on the basis. [[17:21:05]] For 238. The decision has been made. Colleagues, the law is grounded. See, we now have one law in the first reading. I suggest the next thing, I suggest we do. Don't go away, fellows, we have to vote now, right now. Come back, please. I'm proposing 2292, 2244a and 2490 to define the three laws that we're going to consider with you today. The first law is to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to replace the permanent deprivation of the will with a milder penalty, a second reading. Next: 2244a is about science and science and technology, which is important for education. And the third is the State Service Act. So define them as three basics until the end of today's plenary day, so we can look at them. Is there any understanding that this is a normal offer? Colleagues, please support this proposal. Colleagues, this suggestion that in the second reading we have to consider three more laws today, I think it is absolutely necessary to unify this hall. Ready? Are you guys ready? Three laws. Please, Your Honor. Three laws in the second reading concerning the correction of permanent deprivation of liberty, the replacement for softer, are an initiative of national MPs. Science and Science and Technology, Minister of Education, Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, Education Law. And the third is about government service. Please support us to complete our evening plenary session with these three laws, please support me, colleagues 226, please, Let's support the colleagues, please support, please vote. [[17:23:57]] For 201 Colleagues. Please, Your Honor, once again, give me a proposal under three laws, please. Vote. I'm asking you to support everyone. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:24:43]] For-198 None. All right, let's move on. 2033a: Draft Act amending the Criminal Code. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please 2033a, please vote on a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[17:25:09]] For 171 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u76	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Alexander Rafalski, Maxim Dmitrenko, Vladimir Panasenko, these names are known not only for Ukraine, but unfortunately for the world. These are names of disgrace for Ukraine and the Ukrainian system of justice. These are people who have been behind bars for many years, illegally convicted. Their judgments, their judgments against them are based on torture, humiliation of human dignity, and corruption in the rule of law, in the prosecutorial system, and in the judicial system. And unfortunately, there are thousands in Ukraine. Today, there is no greater question in society than the question of reforming the judicial and legal system. We will have before us a review of the changes to the Constitution that the President of Ukraine has brought to justice, and everyone hopes that the political impact on judges will be removed, and better access to justice will be guaranteed, and the judiciary will be upgraded. But for over a year now, people have been waiting for real steps to demonstrate that you and I are ready to bring people closer to the justice of the judicial system. This is especially true of those who have identified illegal persecution. The proposed bill proposes amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code, according to which unlawfully convicted persons will be able to obtain a real opportunity to review their final judgments on themselves, in cases where such sentences were based solely on the appearance of duty, that means that the prosecution did not collect any evidence at all, but on Thor. applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u77	Please finish, Oksana Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u78	If such judgments are based solely on testimony from witnesses who are then suspected, if such judgments are based on distorted circumstances and if such judgments are based on evidence, then again, they are based on humiliation and torture, or human rights violations. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u79	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna. Dear colleagues, please, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. I just want to say one thing. The discussion will now simply take time to consider other laws. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to ensure that individual categories of convicted persons are granted the right to justice. The project introduces a temporary mechanism to review sentences in criminal cases in which persons have been sentenced without a proper evidence base for serious and particularly serious crimes on the basis of, attention, the Criminal Procedure Code of 1960 and are still being punished, to ensure that such persons are entitled to justice and to the restoration of their rights. For this purpose, chapter XI of the Ukrainian CPC is supplemented by paragraphs 16. 1 - 16.11, according to which an appeal for an indictment may be brought directly to a court of appeal, within the jurisdiction of the defendant. Complaints of indictments are due by 31 December 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the committee has considered this bill very carefully. What's more, there's been a lot of references to the committee from public organizations, from those people who are really following up on the situation of those who are currently serving illegal sentences under the 1960 Criminal Procedure Code, the Soviet Union. And so the committee unanimously decided to support the bill in its first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u81	Colleagues, let's vote on the basis of this bill. Yeah? Take your seats, please. 2033a. Please take our seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, we come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So the bill is now in the vote. Colleagues! As I understand it, it's about the law as a basis. We have only half an hour left, and we have the State Service Act in order. Is there a need to discuss this with you, colleagues? If not harshly, let's vote. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready? The author says on the basis of his work, respected colleagues. Attention, let's move on to the vote, Your Honor. Thus, the draft Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the protection of individual categories of convicted persons with the right to a judicial verdict (2033a) is put to the vote on the basis of a signal vote. Please, 2033a signal vote, we vote. [[17:32:45.]] For 214 Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. And let's not agitate me in general, let's vote first, and then let's talk about the possibility in general. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Anyone in the towers please be invited to the Hall to discipline members of their factions to the heads of factions. And I'm re-voting 2033 a, signal vote, please take part in the vote, 2033 a on the basis of a signal vote. Please vote. [[17:33:42]] For 238. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u83	Please, come on, on the basis of the vote. 2033a, based on. The author insists on the basis. On the basis of that, please support all colleagues. [[17:34:07]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of it? In general, please. Paul Kishkar, a minute, and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, come on. The author speaks of what. They took it as a foundation. Thank you, let's move on. Colleagues, we have a draft decision that's important, very important. Project. Attention, everyone, attention, colleagues! It's a draft decision. By what? Colleagues, we have a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the examination of facts, violations during the re-voting of the election of the city of Crevice on November 15, 15. There are all party representations, signed factions, pay attention! Yuri Lucenko, Maxim Burbak. Yuri Lucenko is the "Block of Petra Poshenko", Burbak Maxim is the "National Front", Barezuk Oleg is Self-Help, and Oleg Lazko. And Sergey Sobolev is Fatherland, and Oleg Lazko is the Radical Party. We need to now, colleagues, 226 votes in order to include in this draft ad hoc order of days and immediate decision-making. And we're going to create this commission. A special, temporary special committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of facts, violations during the re-voting of a crooked city’s head. Please support this decision, to include it in the agenda of the day session, to make a decision ad hoc. Please support me. Ready to vote? Please vote, please support. Colleagues of the People's Deputies, please support the Horn of the Curve, TSK on the Curved Horn. Integrating in the daytime. Please vote, vote. Please be supportive. [[17:36:46]] For 229 Colleagues, very careful. I propose this decision to be adopted in general. But I very carefully ask you to vote. Every voice in the account. Please vote. One minute. Please, Egor Sobolev, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u84	Colleagues, I'm sorry about the ad hoc procedure. But that's the decision where parliament has to intervene. You know the story that happened in Bloody Rose, you know that people went out. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to explain, I want to explain an amendment. Dear People's Front, I'm not talking about a ruling right now. During the creation of this commission, the Opposition Block refused to give its candidate. Now that the ruling is on the vote, they've identified their candidate and Self-Help is asking for a vote on the committee of Constantine Pavlov, member of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u85	This member is being accepted by this Committee's Occupy by Constantine Pavlov, the Ukrainian National Deputy, as a whole, of the draft decision. Vote? All of it? Vote. We're voting in general. I'll be there soon. [[17:38:28]] For 225 Colleagues, one more, one more minute, one more. I see, I see, I see. I put my whole return to this decision. Please vote back to the verdict. Vote. I get it. I see you haven't made it. Please vote, colleagues. Return, 3529. Let's vote, colleagues, we have to support it. Return. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:39:00]] For 226 Colleagues, now in general, please vote. Please be supportive. Stop! One minute. And the national deputy of the non-fractional Yuri Lewchenk to join the commission. Absolutely. Let's do it. Yuri Lewchenko. Vote! Vote. Yuri Lewchenko of the non-fractional. Vote! Oleg, we have a vote. Vote. Please, in general, Yuri Lewchenko and Constantine Pavlov, we vote. [[17:39:40]] For 229 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor. Colleagues, let's move on. Actor's been approved. Act 2292. Law 2292 is fully harmonized. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u86	The honourable presiding, respected colleagues, the committee prepared for consideration in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian law, which today awaits so many people, the public and more than 500 appeals to the committee. It is the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to Replace Forever Freedness with a Softer Penalty. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to amend the Criminal Code, the Criminal Enforcement Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Oversight with Persons Released from Places of Disqualification, which provides for the humanization of the order of appointment and the execution of penalties in the form of deprivation of liberty. During the drafting of the bill for consideration in the second reading, 36 amendments were made, 27 of which were rejected. They're all in the table you have, based and listed there. I point out that in view of the amendments, it is envisaged to leave the possibility of freeing those sentenced to eternal deprivation of liberty, but only after a person has been punished no less than 20 years of deprivation of liberty, irreprehensible conduct over the past three years, and when the court finds that there is no need for further punishment. The other one. In the draft law, a new part of article 68 of the Criminal Code, which stipulates that persons for the preparation of crime and for the prosecution of crime are not subject to permanent deprivation of their will, to be supplemented by the words “except in cases of crimes against the fundamentals of national security of Ukraine provided for in articles 109 to 114 (with badge 1) against the peace and security of humanity provided for in articles 437 to 439 of the First Article 442 and article 443 of this Code”. The amendment to article 82 of the Criminal Code, which allowed for the replacement of an unspent portion of punishment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty, is excluded, and the changes proposed in connection with this to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, since it is impossible to determine such an unspent part. Amendments to article 87 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code provide that the President may, in a pardon, replace a person with a sentence of imprisonment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty only for a term of 25 years. The first reading was not more than 25 years old, so it could have been 15, and 18. Colleagues, I think this bill, which has been drafted by many Supreme Council deputies who have been waiting for their turn for a long time, I think it should be adopted as a whole today as a law, very much awaited. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. Are there any sharp adjustments that we should follow? Now we're going to put the committee to a vote. None. Please take your seats, we will proceed to the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. Signal vote 2292. 2292 in the second reading and in general in the Committee. Signal vote, colleagues. Please take your seats. Ready? The signal, please, in the second reading and in general, we vote. [[17:44:28]] For 228 We vote, colleagues, in second reading and in general, according to the committee's decision, in the committee's version. In general, second reading, in general. Vote! Second reading, in general, we vote. [[17:44:51]] For 233 The law's been passed. 2244a: Science and Science and Technology Act. As the committee assures me, almost everything is agreed upon, they are small. And then we're going to have the State Service Act, colleagues. Sergey Mironovich, I want to say hello to you again with my colleagues' birthday. It's in the morning session, and now it's in the evening. Good and Healthy, With a Jubilee! [[Applause]] And inspiration. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u88	Dear colleagues! I'm saving time right now to talk about the importance of science for Ukraine's future. And I'll say one thing, we've agreed on almost all of the positions, there are 130 amendments that have come, 138 rejected, 49 suggestions, but we hope that the insistence will be on just some of them. Now I want to read under the transcript the two amendments that came out of the comments of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council one and the other under the insistence of the Ministry of Profiles. So, the first amendment: "Transitional positions" is to establish that not all the bills registered at the National Academy of Sciences are sent to the National Academy of Sciences, but only those that have a systemic nature for specific areas of legislation, as well as the need for scientific work that a first reading committee has set up. The second amendment the Ministry insists on sounds like this. In "Transitional Positions," paragraph 1 of this Act takes effect on the day following its publication, except for the first part of the second part of article 36 of this Act, which takes effect on 1 January 2020, by increasing it by 1 January 2017. It was important to read it under the transcript. In general, your colleagues, the law is just the consensus we need for this period in order for Ukrainian science to develop, Ukrainian scientists have access to grants. We're increasing the grant funding of science. At the same time, the new system of science management, the democratization of governance at the National Academy of Sciences and Branch Academys, will provide more space for the development of an individual Ukrainian scientist. We therefore ask for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u89	Thank you. Colleagues, are there principles of reform that we are. Vote. Vote. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, I think this will be your joint position. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u90	Dear National Deputies! I urge you not to adopt hundreds of pension laws for each category of employees. It is a disgrace that Ukrainian legislation has divided Ukrainian pensioners into varieties. We have a few dozen pension laws. The Science Act cannot be the norm for a special pension scheme. Retirement is expected to pay a salary. And all categories of workers have to be given pensions depending on their employment and income. So I insist on voting on my 85, on removing this rule from the law, because there must be a single pension law for all categories of citizens. And without such a removal, I urge my colleague not to vote in favour of the law as a whole. Please put an order to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, for example, on pension insurance, so in our current legislation we have two special pensions: scientists and military: scientists -- 60 percent, military -- 70. I want to say that the Ministry of Social Policy has agreed in this law, that is, the government has agreed to it, this special pension is 60 percent. And today, taking it away when no new pension legislation has yet been introduced -- unfairly, at least in the sense that this law is now in force. We don't accept the New Pension Insurance Act, so this rule is guaranteed today, we can't reduce it in any way, it's 60 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u94	So we can talk about going to a valid norm, to a valid norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u95	Correction, what's the number? 85th Amendment, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, 85th - Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, rejected by the committee, I understand. Please be sure that 85 amendments have been rejected by the committee. [[17:50:26]] For a hundred and I didn't get the required number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we offer compromise. We offer compromise. We don't have the Science Act, all of a sudden, for scientists, to introduce a new pension. They now have the right to this special pension, and today it is regulated by law, and this is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. 60 percent, let's get back to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, Suhevich, National MP, Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u98	We insist that scientists receive pensions in general. That's what it's Remember, these are the terms of the Coalition Agreement. This was said in the Coalition Agreement. Now we're starting to go back to our old ways: to privileged pensions. And I'm sorry, there was 80 percent written in the law, not 60 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u99	The Honourable Mr. Jury, yes, was introduced into the law from another, alternative, point in the first reading, where 60, which is in the law in force, asked for a change of 80 percent, and we voted in the first reading. I'm offering a compromise. But we're not adopting a new pension legislation that then regulates pensions for all employees, but now we're going to go back to the standard that's in the current legislation: 60 percent. And it's going to be exactly the compromise decision that today, at this point in time, is 60 percent in actual legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u101	Colleagues, we cannot make this law any worse today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u102	So there is a requirement. Then there is the requirement that amendment 89 be made for confirmation, but whether it requires it. So who. Please comment, but very briefly, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u103	There's Dennis' amendment, which is just so consensual, so compromise, it's about turning that 80 percent into a valid standard, adopted by Kabmin, 60 percent. Let us all vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u105	Let's count it as the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u106	This amendment is supported by both the committee and should be supported. I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Now I'm going to ask you to confirm Amendment 89 of Dennis. The committee, or consider it a committee proposal. Then come on, Mrs. Lilia, so that we don't vote, you've announced under the transcript that this is a committee proposal, and we accept it as a committee proposal. Are there still principles of correction that need to be discussed? None. So, dear fellows, I will now put to the vote. There's more, isn't there? Lechenko, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u107	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Mr. Chairman, the chairman, I'd like to make a few amendments for confirmation. So if Mr. Suhevich now calls for one to be confirmed, let's vote first, and then we'll go after what I'm saying. Because it's gonna be a complete mess if we're gonna talk about this together right now. So, Andrew, please, let's start with Shuhevich, and then I'll make these amendments my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u108	Mr. Yuri, I'll explain in detail. I was approached by a representative of Yuri Suhevich, and we agreed with the committee that Amendment 89 of Denisov counts as a committee proposal. So this question is removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u109	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u110	Are all your questions off?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u111	Yes, there is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u112	Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u113	Yes, thank you. I have some amendments for confirmation. First amendment: You propose amendment 31 to delete the rule that the candidate for head of the state scientific institution should be a citizen of Ukraine. We don't think that's going to be possible. You've already captured the entire government service by the Georgians. Now you want to put this situation into scientific activity too. Then there will be no Ukrainians at all. Let's take the Ukrainians from any leadership in Ukraine in general, so that we have only foreigners, we are guided, we have no questions. So please place this amendment on the 31st for confirmation. And I urge the hall not to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u114	Please, Lilia Greenevich. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, for administrative positions in Ukrainian science, we must promote Ukrainian citizens. This does not prevent us from engaging foreign professors, foreign scientists. But we need to develop national science. Instead, we run the rotation of personnel in administrative positions by this law. Don't let people sit there for tens of years. We gave them cadets, we gave them a limited term of office. So the rotation will be ensured. But we must move on to these positions of young Ukrainian scholars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u116	Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? Mr. Yuri, I'm addressing you and all the other authors of the amendments. No three minutes six. The State Service Act is next. Dear colleagues, I ask you again, are you insisting on confirmation? Okay. I'll bet offer 31.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u117	You can't vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u118	Colleagues that we're talking about. So when it comes to the confirmation of the law, that is, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry, with the people's deputies, they worked on a bill that fully fits the ideology. Then we have the repairs. When it comes to putting them on the stand, there is one threat. The threat is that if these amendments do not support most of the votes, the law begins to change its essence. And there's a very important question. So that's why I'm proposing that we realize that right now. I'm going to make a motion now that we're going to vote, and we need to get 226 votes, and I'm going to put it up for confirmation. And if I see that we have a voting problem, we, I think, will go back to the rules for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u119	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, allow me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u120	Lilia Mihailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I propose a vote in favour of confirming this amendment. This is how you place this text on confirmation. Yes, this amendment. That opens up access to management positions for scientists abroad. Yeah? Yes. Your Honor, I believe that in order for us to vote on this law at all, we must vote in favour of this amendment. And that's how we get to consensus. So I urge everyone to vote for her now. But I ask Mr. Lewchenk, after the following amendments, can we believe that we are now voting for this amendment and for the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u122	Please, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u123	Dear friends. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for a moment. We're adopting a law that determines the country's priority. We have two priorities: security and science. We need to protect the country’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, and think about the future. The future is science, it's investment, it's innovation. They are followed by what is called the best country. Friends, this law opens up opportunities for the country. Let's vote it out. I'm asking you to support the Hall, support the Hall to uphold the law in the Committee's drafting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u124	Thank you. Colleagues, national MPs, we have one priority with you: people. And then everything else. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u125	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to control your emotions! I have to say that this is one of the system laws that has been drafted with the public, and huge groups have been involved in working on this law! Dear colleagues, there are a number of positions that do not take place. But as a compromise, I'm asking you very much, let's support the amendment. And that the chairman should put to the vote the amendment of Lechchenk, with which the head of the committee agreed, and the committee agrees, and put his acceptance in second reading and in general as a law. Otherwise, you have to take the law off the table. Once again, this is not a committee bill. This is not a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a bill that's been drafted by the scientific community. Wars are coming, not for the earth, not for the energy, but for the brains! And if we don't put anything in this area, then we lose the future for Ukraine! There's no politics here!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u126	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished fellow national deputies, we will not let this law fail. I understand that. It's gonna be okay. There's an offer. Yuri Lewchenko will now announce 5 amendments for confirmation, and we will immediately put them on, and in general, and in the second reading, we will vote. Okay? Please, Yuri Lewchenko, announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u127	Just two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u128	Two minutes, announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u129	Thank you. So in order not to tell anyone that something's going to go wrong, I've come up with a special approach, and I'm proposing a compromise to make about five amendments right now, and I think what are the worst that's going to break this law is actually more or less a normal law that corrupts it. I suggest you put them on confirmation right now. Well, let's see how you vote for these things. The first rule I've already announced is where you want a Ukrainian citizen to be replaced again into mates so that we don't have Ukrainians in Ukraine at all. Second rule. Amendment 32, according to this amendment, you want to delete the rule of dissemination to the heads of state scientific institutions of illustrative legislation so that all our listeners can hear. So the illustration will no longer work in scientific institutions. Each region will be governed in the same way as it was governed. Yeah? Then it's Amendment 49. Instead of approving the statute of NAN Ukraine by Kabmin, only the registration of the Ministry of Justice, that is, what will be written, then the Ministry of Justice will register. And the last amendment 53 is to delete the rule on the marginal number of academics and correspondents in the field of science. Now there's a marginal number, you want to subtract this marginal number. That is to say, to produce as many robots as possible, which just eat up the budget. So now I'm asking you to make these amendments for confirmation. I'm paying particular attention to the entire room, the entire Ukrainian people, about the question of illustration, about amendment number 32, according to which you now want to clear the requirements of illustrative legislation to the heads of scientific institutions. And yet I urge the hall to think and not confirm such, absolutely wrong things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u130	32, 53?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u131	31, 32, 49, 53 — four amendments, four.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u132	Thank you, colleagues. Please, colleague Spiowakovsky, one minute. We'll take our seats, we'll vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this law is essential. This law is a very big compromise between what we want and what we have, unfortunately. I'm also going on very big compromise stuff here. Amendment 112, but I'm taking it down. This amendment could motivate scientists to raise funds to finance open - air scientific developments. Involve young and talented professionals in scientific projects and ensure transparent use of funds. But the Ministry of Education promises that it will work with such mechanisms that old funding as it now exists will go away in the summer. And so, honourable colleagues, please support this bill, understanding that it will still be necessary to amend it to ensure that science and science continue to develop effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u134	Colleagues, we take our seats, which is very important. Wait, wait, wait. Colleagues, right now we need to vote in favour of these amendments, which means we need to get 226 votes. And we immediately dialed 226 and we immediately vote in the second reading and in general, right? Fellows, once again, please take your seats, your distinguished colleagues, your national deputies! We understand, so we support this law, now we have to vote on these amendments, confirm them, we need 226. I'm going to put you to a vote, your honor. Are you ready or not? Please support everyone. Science and Science and Technology Act. Now let's make some adjustments, don't worry. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Victor Halasyuk, 30 seconds. Please, we're taking our seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u135	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! This is not just about five amendments, it is about the future of Ukraine 20 years in advance, for such laws are adopted once a decade. This is a fundamental law that will allow you to preserve quality Ukrainian science. Not to eliminate, as some suggest, the Academy of Sciences is completely absurd, but to create the right tools to finance it in order to sustain, on a project basis, a living and quality science, but one that is inanimate, which is fair, it will die off itself. That is why this is a question of Ukraine's future. Keep this to the point of confirming the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u136	So, look, the honourable colleagues: 31,32,49 and 53rd amendments, they were counted by the committee. Now we need to put them on the stand and get 226 votes. So I urge you to confirm the revisions 31, 32, 49 and 53. We will support and then we will vote in the second reading as a whole. Is it accepted? Let's vote in favour of the amendments. Alert vote in favour of amendments. They took their seats, they got ready. They did. It's accounted for, they need to be supported. Attention, we need 226. Colleagues, please don't beat me up, please. Please! Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, give me a signal vote. Please all press "yes," to support these amendments that have been considered by the committee. If we don't accept them now, they're just going to be rejected and then the law is just being destroyed. So there's a signal vote on these amendments that I've announced. Vote. If you'll excuse me, we'll vote in favour. [[6:10:37]] For 227 Yeah, 227. Everyone stays where they are. I'll bet you that's correct. Everybody in their seats. 31, 32, 49, 53 — to confirm my vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please, everyone vote in favour, please vote in favour of these amendments. Ready? Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's science. Lilia Mikhailovna, let's vote again. Please, 2244a is a scientific, scientific and technical activity, confirmation of rights: 31, 32, 49, 53. Can I have your back, please? Vote, please. Please support, vote, colleagues, it's important. [[18:11:51]] For 234 The law has been passed. revisions supported. In the second reading and in general, we are voting, colleagues, please support in the second reading, and as a whole, with the amendments, we vote, please support, we vote 2244a in the committee's version. Lilia Mikhailvna, you voted against it. Vote in favor. [[18:12:12]] For 235 The law's been passed. That's what I'm talking about. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Attention! We're going to count Lily's voice for Michael's. Thank you all for supporting this law. I need one minute of your attention. The law's been passed. Look, colleagues, we've got you now. I need your attention, colleagues. May I have your attention? I need a minute of your attention, dear colleagues. And then there'll be a jeweler. Dear colleagues, we now have a day-to-day law: the State Service Act, the State Service Act. I think it's one of the very systemic laws that has prepared an expert environment with the committee, with the deputies -- all part of progressive humanity. We need a professional government service. But given that this law is now standing, and it's already 18 hours 15 minutes, I suggest we move it now. I've agreed with the committee, the committee head, the reporters, and I think the factions also have to support this position: move it to Tuesday. We don't have the right to take it down, we need the government's professional service. Because if we do that, we won't be able to form people with you who have to work for the country. There is no need for a vote. I'm asking for the next thing. Tuesday for 11 o'clock he'll be standing. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. A vote in the Committee without discussion, a public service. Great, everybody, come back, let's sit down. Look, colleagues, I'm going to put up this vote, but I know there are no votes. Now let's check my gut. Vote, a vote on the possibility of supporting this law in a committee's version. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Please vote in favour of this law now. [[18:15:00]] For-162 And that's all there is to it. But once again, I emphasize that we do not have the moral right to break this law. So I suggest Tuesday at 11 a.m. it is subject to consideration and approval, a new law on professional government service in Ukraine. And I'm going to count on us to get together on this day and support it. Do you have a deal? Yuri Lucenko, a minute, please, and then a jeweler. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u137	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are all here as adult national deputies, and we understand very well that there is a mass of political intrigue going on around this bill. There are people who want to continue to manage political party methods by government authorities. And today's transfer of this issue means that party intriguers have conquered the spirit of European reform that has been established in this Parliament. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to confirm one thing that many people try to play with this law. But I call on all the factions of the coalition: "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front", "The Fatherland," "The Self-Help" on Tuesday to hand over, to ensure the maximum presence of MPs in person. And give up most of the votes for that law. In addition, my fellow countrymen, I call on all outside the coalition progressive forces, groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, to support this law as a committee. Please, Your Honor, I think we'll all take our stand and vote on Tuesday. Please, Sergey Mironovich Flower.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u139	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you for supporting the Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technical Activities. This law refers to the sphere of national interests. And you showed your state position. I also want to thank all the experts, all of our colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science, from the profile committee led by Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, for their constructive work. We will continue to prepare our drafts. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask everyone to be very careful again, at 11 o'clock on Tuesday, he'll be standing in order for us to be. In the sessionary plenary Tuesday it will stand at 11 p.m., this law. And I'll count on us all to approve of him. Thanks for the job. I'm announcing it. Maxim Burbak, please. I think you're about to say something important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u141	Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for the fact that this bill will still be discussed next plenary Tuesday. I'm sorry we couldn't look into it today. Because factions where there are no more than half of them, of course they won't vote. So I'm asking my colleagues, the heads of factions in our coalition, to make the maximum presence of our deputies on Tuesday, and to immediately adopt this law as a basis and as a whole with an addition to the formation of a fund for public officials' salaries under the European Union programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-26-m1.u142	It's a basic law, last Tuesday's plenary, about government service. And, colleagues, we voted with you, and now I want to repeat under the 2706 stenogram, remember, according to the HKG law. We made a decision to prepare him for the second reading of the reduced procedure, if you remember. Alona Babak then reported it to him, I think? I want to do it again under the transcript, and I want to say again, what this decision was made. My colleagues, thank you all for your work. I wish all of us success. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., there'll be a morning meeting. And the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you for your attention.
