ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Please come into the hall, get ready for work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our meeting. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the hall. We begin the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please activate the "Council" system for the registration of national deputies, please. [[10:04:06]] 294 national deputies are registered in the hall. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Please announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u3	Before going to the applications, I would like to read out the announcements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, according to this statement, I'm reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Dubil Valeri Alexanderovich as part of the MP's Fatherland faction. Let's welcome our colleague. I report that according to the minutes of the session of the MP group "Rebirth" since 5 June 2015, the name of the MP group has been changed. The new full name of the group is the MP's rebirth party, the abbreviated name is the MP's rebirth party. According to this statement, I am reporting the membership of the political party's deputy faction "The Opposition Block" of Ukrainian Deputy Murayev Evgenija Volodymirovic. According to this statement, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zubas Lubomir Lvivić into the Samohelp faction. Welcome. I am reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary union, a parliamentary association with tax, customs and land legislation reforms in Ukraine. The co-ordinator of the interfractional MP’s association is the MP’s association with tax, customs and land legislation reform of Ukraine. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association for a sober future. The head of the inter-fractional "Towards a Bright Future" is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gołko Mikhail Josephovich. Hello. And the last message. According to this statement, I'm reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Constantinople Vejacheslav Leonidovich from the National Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, just a year ago, our colleague, Nadia Savchenko, was taken prisoner. And today, in captivity, they're fighting for our independence. In this regard, I propose that we give the floor to our colleague, John Krulko, so that he can read the information. Please, please. And then we're going to record the performances of the people's deputies in accordance with the Rules. Please, John.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u5	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished fellow national MPs, there was another court in Moscow last week over Nadia Saucenko. The ruling of the court, as always totally illegal and arbitrary, extended the arrest of Hope Savchenko until September 30. The court hears no argument, but at the same time they are programmed to commit completely illegal crimes against Ukrainian citizens. Today, just as Nadia Savchenko was abducted from Ukraine, transported to the Russian Federation, she was arrested and subjected to virtually illegal acts by the Russian investigating authorities. Just a year ago, Nadia Savchenko was in Russian prison. And cynicism is that the second charge against Savechenko's hope is that it seems to have illegally crossed the border of the Russian Federation. During the trial, Nadia Savchenko held very courageously, as she had always thanked all the Ukrainian citizens who supported her in her fight for Ukraine. At the same time, Nadia Savchenko was concerned and asked about the fate of other Ukrainian prisoners who, like her, were being held illegally by the Russian Federation. In this connection, during the trial, Nadia Savchenko submitted a parliamentary request to the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, who requested that she read from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on her behalf. "The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Klimkina Paul Anatoliyovich on the provision of information on the measures taken to protect Ukrainian citizens who are illegally imprisoned and held in the territory of the Russian Federation, a parliamentary request. Since the spring of 2014, the aggression of the Russian Federation and its supporters has been taking place against Ukraine, during which thousands of Ukrainian citizens have been occupied. During this unannounced war, citizens of Ukraine, including Oleg Sentsov, Alexander Kolchenko, Alexei Cherniy, Yuri Yatzenko, Bogdan Jarichevsky, Artem Chigoz, Mikola Karpuk, Stanislav Klich, Sergey Litvinov, Valentin Vygowski, Yuri Soloshenko, became captive in the Russian Federation. It is now known that in the course of the investigation physical and psychological pressures are being applied to Ukrainian citizens who are illegally imprisoned and held in the territory of the Russian Federation. The Russian side has made every effort to prevent consular officials from contacting Ukrainian citizens who have been detained, such as Mikola Karpuk and Stanislav Klich. On the basis of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, I ask for official information on the number of Ukrainian citizens who are currently illegally imprisoned and held in the territory of the Russian Federation on the measures taken by Ukraine, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, including diplomatic correspondence documentation concerning the protection of Ukrainian citizens who are illegally imprisoned in the territory of the Russian Federation. Regarding the measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to ensure that consular officials of Ukraine are allowed in the territory of the Russian Federation of Ukrainian Citizens, Mikoli Karpuk and Stanislav Klich, on the measures the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine plans to use as soon as possible for the release of Ukrainian citizens who are illegally imprisoned and detained in the territory of the Russian Federation. National Deputy of Ukraine Hope Savechenko." I ask you to consider this acknowledgment as an official MP's request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Our job is to free Nadia Savchenko and all the illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens in the territory of the Russian Federation. But also, colleagues, we need to get an answer on what measures have been taken in order to implement the Savechenko Sanction List, which we voted with you here, in this plenary room. Thank you for your attention! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u6	Dear friends, I'd like to ask you one minute to congratulate Sister Vera and Mother for their courage, for their Ukrainianity, for supporting our hero Nadia Savchenko together. Vera, thank you and your mother for the low oath of the entire Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the Ukrainian national deputies. Please prepare for the recording, please prepare for the recording, please report to your honorary colleagues. Let's sign up. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, allow me to inform you about the work of the subgroups of four formats of the Tripartite Minsk Group, which lasted yesterday in Minsk and where, among others, the group I represent, was discussed, first of all, the issue of the liberation of Ukrainians who are currently being held by terrorists, as well as in the Russian Federation. I would like to call on you, my dear fellows, just as we share a common position in the defense of our state and in the support of the army, to take a common position on the Minsk Accords. Because the Minsk Accords are recognized by the world as an unalterable plan for the de-escalation of the conflict in the East, this is a plan proposed by Ukraine. And the other issue that we have to point out in one voice and very harshly is not the implementation of the Minsk Treaties by the Russian Federation and its supported terrorists and separatists. Dear colleagues, I would like to assure you that the issue of the release of Ukrainian hostages is one of the key issues that is being addressed at the work of our own subgroup of humanitarian workers. And according to the Ukrainian Security Service, which is primarily concerned with this issue, there are currently more than 270 Ukrainians in captivity. Among them, 11 Ukrainian citizens are held in Russian Federation prisons, according to available information. And just yesterday, our Ukrainian side gave once again the OSCE's undeniable evidence of violations of the rights of these Ukrainians, of illegal exports to the territory of the Russian Federation, and of non-compliance with international law in defence, including our citizens, our consuls. We also want to emphasize that in the last month, only 9 Ukrainian citizens were able to be released. Is that a lot, or is that nine Ukrainians? These, dear colleagues, are nine happy families who have seen their loved ones. But of course, we insist, and we stand here very hard, that all 270 Ukrainians are to be released, who are currently being held hostage by terrorists and separatists. Also among the topics raised by the Ukrainian side and on which we insist, is the lawlessness of the so-called humanitarian convoys, and the Russian Federation is preparing the so-called 30th convoy for the crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border on uncontrolled areas without proper supervision by our customs and border services. We have stressed, OSCE, first of all, that Ukraine is demanding the world’s response to the violation of this fact. And also, dear colleagues, I want to assure you that we are taking the only possible, hard position, the Minsk Accords have to follow -- it's a complex of measures and one of the key complexes of these measures is to establish full control over the Ukrainian-Russian border, which will allow for the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u9	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u10	Avoid weapons and drug trafficking and other illegal cargo in our territory. I would very much like all of us, dear colleagues, to take a common position in the assessment of the Minsk Treaties, which are non-alternative and in the assessment of who they are and to share this position with the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u12	Oleg Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Party, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. In my speech today, I would like to address Mr. Groysman Vladimir Borisovich personally, I'm sorry he's not in the hall right now. For six months now, an important 1159 bill has been artificially delayed and proposes to transfer state land outside the population to municipal property. We're all talking a lot, and in this room, we're talking about decentralization, but the bill is real decentralization. This is a step towards the economic self-sufficiency of the territorial communities, which is a step that is effective, and most importantly, rapid. To accept it, we do not have to wait for changes to the Constitution, we do not have to wait for the communities to unite, a bill supported by a profile committee back in December last year, think about it, dear colleagues! December of last year! In April, the "Rebirth" MPs blocked the House of Parliament, then you, Vladimir Borisovich, and the leaders of all factions and groups agreed that this issue should finally move from the dead. But time goes on and the draft agenda for this week's bill is deleted again. There are some incomprehensible insinuations, a bill written by the State Agency that proposes that the land be passed off to the councils but not to property but to the authorities. Why? In order to take them back, this does not solve the problem, and local communities do not explicitly support it. I'm not saying that this is directly in conflict with your coalition agreement. What questions are before the bill? We're told about the corruption of local governments, we've passed another bill, 2279, which prohibits the transfer to the lease of public utility land for auctions. With this bill, the same situation, its consideration is deliberately prolonged. Meanwhile, bribes for renting state land without auctions continue. I am constantly approached by farmers and complained that the lease requires $250 per acre. This money should be in the budget, in the rural, circuit, or district budget, not in the official’s pocket. Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, the honorable leadership of the Supreme Council, both bills are a real step towards a system of land relations, and the Supreme Council should finally consider them. Therefore, please explain why the proposals made at the Conciliation Council are ignored as a result of the violation of the Rules? Why are these bills included in weekly agendas but then disappear? If there are questions to drafts, let's discuss them in the session room. But just ignore what 22 MPs signed out of almost all the MP factions and groups and almost unanimously supported the committee, I don't think we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u13	Thank you. Wolf Viktor Ivanovich gives the word to the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable fellow members of the national MPs, went to the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday to submit a motion from the Attorney General of Ukraine, Victor Shokin, to allow Parliament to arrest and arrest the national deputy, Sergio Kljeva. Everything would've been fine if it hadn't been for one "but" - he's been on the run. And when Parliament considered filing for the removal of parliamentary immunity from the Clovis more than two weeks ago, all of us were required by the Attorney General to immediately submit to Parliament for arrest and arrest of Clovis. At the time, they told us that there was no reason for his arrest, and they gave us the opportunity to get away. Now, after Kluv probably took away the money that the Radical Party faction refused to pay, took them to the prosecutor's office, Kluv ran away, and now they've filed for his arrest and arrest. Who do you want to surprise with this pornography? Are you laughing at Ukrainian society? I have a question for the Attorney General. Are you perhaps laughing at the national MPs of Ukraine? At first they were given the opportunity to escape; after he fled, they now imitate his investigation, search, and demand his arrest. Moreover, the Attorney General of Ukraine sent a letter yesterday in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, which, unfortunately, is not in the hands of this letter, that is, in my actions, because I do not go to the Attorney General's Office for the Clovis case, there are signs of a crime envisaged by such an article of the Criminal Code in my actions. Then I have a very simple question to the Attorney General: if he found a crime sign in my actions in three days, why didn't those who killed people in Maidan be drawn within a year and a half? Why was none of Yanukovich’s gang planted in a year and a half? Why don't you see in their actions over a year and a half, and you find hundreds of reasons not to hold them accountable, and in the actions of the national deputy Lalashka, who didn't show up twice for questioning because he was on the front and wasn't in Kiev, did you see the signs of the crime? And in the actions of the people’s deputy Moseschuk, who protected the country in the east, you saw signs of crime. And in the actions of the People's Deputy Denisenko, a patriot, you've seen signs of crime. I say this is a targeted policy aimed at destroying Ukrainian patriots. I demand that the Attorney General submit to the Supreme Council immediately to the representatives of the block of thieves who stole from Yanukovich's country. I'm again asking my fellow MPs to sign the Shokin release order, don't avoid responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich, Opposition Block. Passes the word to Kolesnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u16	Good day, honourable chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, to this day the non-professionalism of the active authority in the formation of the tariffs of the JCC in this room raises this subject every day. It is also necessary to raise the political attitude of authority toward local governments that have led not only to the poverty of our people but also to the problems of the actual survival of local governments. Regrettably, an unwarranted increase in gas prices by 56 percent will be an additional burden on local government budgets, and such decisions will not be supported by adequate financial resources at all. For example, in my hometown of Bloody Rose, for example, there is now a need for more than 56 million budget institutions, which is only six months away. I would also like to point out that in 2015 the financing of general secondary education and health care institutions, which we, dear colleagues, speak about every day, is based on the so - called education and medical subsidy from the State Budget. In doing so, subsidies are proven annually and local self - government authorities do not influence this in any way. Local authorities cannot react to this situation. For example, public order and domestic programs don't work at all because of debt. One principle on which the entire budget system of Ukraine is based is the independence of budgets. And in an annotated state, for more than a year now, the power of fiscal decentralization of the question of self-determination has become very, very important and meaningful. Decentralization for power, and respectable colleagues, as I can see, are suburbs and old age, this is the replacement of the name of the population, this is the economic, social blockade of Donbas, this is what is being pursued by any other idea that is different from the active authority. So the situation that has arisen, the Opposition Block believes that it is now necessary to put in place a standard whereby any decisions made by public authorities that result in additional costs will be strengthened by budgetary appointments from the State Budget. Me and my colleagues Wilkul, Pavlov, Galchenko, Sphenov, we introduced a package of bills. And I'm asking the people's deputies to look closely at them. And if there is your will, support them. Without adequate support for local self-government, we will not be able to move Ukraine's economy from a dead point of view as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u17	nieciporenko Valentina Mikolaiovich, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, respectable colleagues, sometimes I watch on television. And they tell us how bad they live in Crimea. It's true, there's not enough water, there's not enough food. But I have a question: in order for criminals to want to come back (no, sorry), in order for criminals to rise more powerful than returning to Ukraine, is it necessary for Crimea to live badly? No, it's not. This requires that the mainland of Ukraine live much better. So there'll be more pensions, wages, jobs. And I don't understand what Parliament is doing today. Parliament lives one life, the country lives another life. Look what we're doing. Yeah, I get it, there's a war coming. But there is an economy. Let's see how the customs office works today. Taxpayers are being charged daily. Who cares if it's on your hand. That's interesting, on the hand of smugglers. They don't pay like that, they don't pay like that. In 2005, the Contrabanda Stop program predicted a reduction in tax pressure. This led to a budget of 18 times! It removed the contraband. Today, tariffs are rising daily. How does he behave as a tax collector? The inspector is coming today, and he's fined the enterprise in general. The company goes, says, "We're going to do it in court." "Refuse, we'll have nothing for it." We don't have a tax officer, a tax inspector, who's not responsible for having him press the enterprise! We have a question of decentralization. Law 1159, which provides for the land to be administered by local communities, is that not decentralization? We are talking about the unification of the territorial communities. It says "voluntary." But we predict that those who have become united — some conditions; those who have not united — have different conditions. Is this voluntary? Dear coalition! Have political will. If you want to unite or unify without a "voluntary" and write, "United territorial communities." But if this is voluntary, then make provision for the same conditions for those who have become united and for those who do not want to be united today. Show how much better it will be for those who are united. People themselves will want to unite. So let's work on economic laws. And if it's decentralization, let's already adopt laws on decentralization, like 1159. And for the rest. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u19	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u20	legislation on the abolition of pension reform should be considered. I understand there's no money in the budget. But there are positives for that and there are negatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u21	Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u22	Members of the previous vocations who voted in favour of abolishing pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u23	Thank you. From the People's Front, Medunica Oleg Vejacheslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u24	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Honorable MPs, citizens of Ukraine! My presentation would like to focus on two topics, the subject of tariffs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. I was very sad to hear yesterday from the Supreme Council’s rostrum when one of our colleagues, speaking of tariffs, spoke of what his political power had done in such a way that the government reduced the tariffs on gas for the population. You know, the government is sequencing order in the gas field. And to his knowledge, it wasn't his political power that caused the tariffs to decrease, namely, the order in the gas field. For the first time six months ago, the government had for the first time reduced consumption standards in buildings without gas counters. Second, this spring’s government has cut tariffs for those who heat water without gas counters. And it happened completely without your pressure. And I looked at the government's transcript, and I wanted to read, and what was your minister of ecology there, and maybe he was on the government there, and he wanted to cut tariffs. No word was said by the representative of your political power about tariff cuts. And you're talking about lowering tariffs only on the TV show and on this stand. This is total populism. And I urge the government not to react at all to this populism, because the government did exactly the right thing by ordering now the audit of leading companies in the world to see if we have one. Don't interrupt me, please. Whether we have it. I'm gonna have to say something 'cause I'm getting beat up here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u25	Don't interrupt Oleg Medunic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u26	Therefore, the government will certainly examine the audit of leading world companies, and they will say whether they have high tariffs or not. And I would advise our colleagues in the government coalition not to rock the boat, because we're all sitting in this boat. Because if we don't have a government right now, our laws don't go through in Parliament. And when people look at us right now, our voters, the way we fight each other here, it just affects the voters by demoralizing them. They don't understand how in a country that's waging a war that's opposed to road rage, there could be such a mess in the Supreme Council. I looked closely at Fertash's interview with the ORT. He said on Sunday that the biggest threat to Ukraine is the government of Yatsenuk. This is said by Firtash, who does everything on Putin's demand to make Ukraine cease to exist as such. So think about such messengers. I call all to unity and to work together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Dubnevich Bogdan Vasilovich, Peter Prashenko's Block. Passes the word. Oh, from the place, right? Please. Ah, Tomenkov's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I mean. That's the biggest threat to Ukraine. The biggest threat to Ukraine is the narcissism of Ukrainian politicians, it's the selfishness of political parties, and it's the inadequacy of people who think they're the smartest of all the other 46 million. If you look at sociology today, we have catastrophic numbers. A month after the Revolution, we had about 60 percent of the people who believed us, saying that Ukraine was finally going the right way. Today, we have a similarity: Today most Ukrainian citizens say that Ukraine is back on the wrong track. This is our joint result. And I think today we need to start working on the mistakes of everyone. Because if we've announced 15 reforms and none of them are successful, obviously we need to inventory those reforms and say, if people live worse as a result of reform, it's an experiment, not a reform. So we have to stop all the experiments on humans and leave the reforms that we can do. This inventory and priorities for reform are extremely important. They were talking about pension reform yesterday. What the hell's the pension reform?Oh, my God! We understand what this has led to. We're talking, colleagues, about administrative reform. But, my friends, look at the map of the royal Russia: At that time, the royal Russia preserved more than the present government of communities in rural areas. So what are we talking about? Is it the right reform or the wrong one? Of course, it is wrong, that is, to unite these communities, but it is better for people to live in a village, not worse. If we are reforming health care, it means that people are better and better treated than they are to buy more. So today, once again, work on mistakes, in closed mode, in open mode -- we need to sit down and analyze and draw conclusions. And today I need to, here I'm told that I often remember the government, I remember everyone, I remember everyone who makes mistakes, because these are our common mistakes. And today, I want to ask the President to do the education work with both the ministers and the other officials who went to Chernigs to look for Mazepa's gold, and when I made the film about the Chernigs, and I have this thing that ministers who go to Chernigs every day are looking for that gold that I told you about. The ministers don't make it to the fire, the ATO is afraid, people don't want to meet teachers, they don't want to see doctors, they don't want to go to Chernigs every day. Guys, stop this circus, I'm talking to the President, if there's a strong bucket, he'll win, without ministers, without business, without everything else, we'll have to show another standard of living, we'll have to show that we've changed, first of all, and then the country. So once again, my friends, if we don't start correcting mistakes, then this majority of people who say today that we're going the wrong way will just say, "You're the same wrong" and ask us to get out of politics, and other people will come into politics, but there's still a chance. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u29	Marcenko Alexander gives the word to Andrew Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u30	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, today we see a very strange situation where there is a coalition of more than 300 votes in Parliament today to demonstrate unity and the struggle for the Ukrainian victory, the struggle to get out of the economic crisis. But at the same time, we see a very strange situation. You know, I'm probably not going to tell you the secret that I'm going to say that the entire force block of today has completely failed its work, and that's both the Attorney General's Office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Security Service. We see total inactivity, we see corruption, we see the inefficiency of these structures, all of them, they're all connected, and their competences are on top of each other. But at the same time, we see some strange selectivity in the actions of some coalition people. When it comes not to the entire force block, but to the individual representatives, when it comes to the Attorney General separately, to the Head Security Service separately, to the Minister of Internal Affairs. And it doesn't look like a principle position in general for reform and change in Ukraine, but for some political games for positions, for the division of shadow spheres of influence in the coalition and in the government. And this is a completely clear political game and manipulation, and in no way is the solution to these issues fundamentally. Because it's a very interesting thing. You know, it's like fighting oligarchs: when everyone's against oligarchs, but they call names only of strangers' oligarchs, and their oligarch masters don't call names when they talk about fighting oligarchs. We see the same thing now in the issues of all of these around the power structures. When some speak only of the Henprocurorate, others speak only of the Chief Security Service, and those speak only of the Minister of Internal Affairs. In fact, in order to stop these manipulations, to stop the political underground games that are aimed only at reviewing political influence, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom today is introducing to Parliament a draft Supreme Council regulation on mistrust in the management of the Ukrainian law enforcement system. And we're asking the President to file for the release of the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service. And we demand the release of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk. They must all bear responsibility, regardless of political color, regardless of the shadow spheres of influence that exist in Ukrainian politics. And we are collecting the signatures of the people's deputies under this decree, which applies to all three leaders of the power structures. And now we're going to sign them. We call upon all the national MPs who are fighting for real reform, who are really fighting corruption, how they really want to punish criminals, not just looking for pyars and serving political clans. So please, we sign, we call on everyone to join us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u31	Lensky Alexander Alexiyovich, Radical Party Noisyku gives the word, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u32	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s economy decreased by 7 percent in official statistics only last year. This year's projected drop is 9 percent. It is said that the following year there will be restorations. I have a question: what's going to make this restoration with this kind of economic policy? Today, Ukraine is really entering a stage of economic depression. Let's see what makes economic recovery possible. There's a very simple formula for economics -- a formula for GDP that has only four components. Just four things that work either in a plus or in a minus economy. The first ingredient is consumer demand, which is what people buy in stores. Does anyone need comments on this ingredient when the bracelet dipped twice, when prices rose by at least 60 percent and so forth? The people are on the verge of survival. Consumer demand forms 90 percent of the economy, 90 percent of GDP. Clearly, this is the most pressing problem. Investments. Last year, 13 billion direct investments were made out of the economy, and this year, it's only 4 billion in the 1st quarter. And it's not just Russia's military aggression, it's because of a weak economic policy run by the government and the National Bank. Clean exports are a waste of stock. That's how much more we spend abroad than we import from other countries. So in Ukraine, this is negative 4 percent, so the export economy works at negative. In European countries, that's plus 5 percent, in Germany, in the Czech Republic, in others. In Singapore and in other dynamic developing countries, that's plus 20 percent. Why? So we're exporting the cheapest raw material, so we're not going to build an economy or make economic growth next year. The fourth ingredient is government spending. Dishonorable foreign advisors will tell us that we need to cut government spending and that we have big government expenditures compared to our economy. Actually, no. We have a very small economy compared to the population of Ukraine, and we have a very large amount of corruption, so we have to deal with it. Therefore, the Radical Party insists on a new economic course in all four directions. To increase consumer demand is to index wages and pensions, it's to create jobs, not to tighten traps to the population. To attract investment, this is the introduction of a public private partnership, the development of an industrial park network, the creation of incentives, including tax, for all sectors of the manufacturing economy. On a pure export basis, this is the creation of an export credit agency, and the law will be passed to Parliament by the Radical Party factions and our coalition colleagues this week, this is the creation of a state development bank that has to provide cheap long loans to the real economy, not to the speculative sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u33	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u34	Not for speculative overseas outposts. In part of the states, it's the introduction of fair preferences for a local producer for both small and medium.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u35	Ten more seconds and please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u36	And that's an increase in national development expenditure. This is the kind of economic policy that aims at creating jobs, involving investments, filling the budget with taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u37	Thank you. On the other hand, Ostap Volodymyrovich conveys the word to Jehor Sobolev, which is the final speech, the time is running out. Please, Jehora Soboljeva, stop talking on the phone and to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u38	Yesterday, the head of the V.A.V.V.V.T.T.A. at a meeting with the Self-Help faction said he shares the idea that today's Attorney General's Office is an organized criminal group. A big question: Why did the Head of the U.S.S.S.A. come to publish this idea just now? But more than that, what are we going to do with that? Self-help requires the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the President of Ukraine to immediately discuss the accusations that have been made in the past week, to discuss immediately the situation of the Kluva escape, which has shown that all law enforcement authorities continue to roof and lead corruption, and to take immediate decisions that will allow us to have at least one real law enforcement authority. And a real leader in his leadership, who will fight corruption. It is important, however, that our words are not empty. However, it is very important that the people who voted in favour of Victor Shokin now say, and the Attorney General does not fit, and he appears to be a corrupter. It's very important that the people who call for us to really start fighting corruption don't give back the power to appoint an anti-corruption prosecutor for the same Shockin. It is very important that people who say that we are united in the coalition, for the effective work of the government, do not allow the government to block the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Where simple fraud is used to control and reproduce the same circled bond system. Let's not get carried away by a lot of words. Parliament can do everything that people require of it. And to break the cycle of corruption in law enforcement, in government, in all authorities. Last thing I wanted to say about it. That's a step from breaking the loop we can do right here tomorrow. To vote for the Local Elections Act, which will break the circle message of parties that will break the circle message of people who are used to buying and selling. Let's move from words to action. And from the responsibility of the leaders of all law enforcement agencies to the adoption of a law that will allow deserving people to create a majority in all authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Thus, the time for announcements and messages is running out. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. And now, according to the order of the day, we're moving on to ratification issues. First question: 0030, this is the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Violent Disappearance. Report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no Habakkuk, please. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u40	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, is invited to your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law on the accession of Ukraine to the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Violent Disappearances, which was developed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to implement paragraph 9 of the workplan of the Inter-Agency Commission on Implementation in Ukraine of International Humanitarian Law for 2014. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Law is to give consent to the obligation of Ukraine to the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Violent Disappearance. The bill provides for Ukraine to join the convention with the relevant statements. To articles 13 and 14 of the Convention, to identify the competent authorities from Ukraine responsible for the examination of requests. Articles 31 and 31 are about recognizing the competence of the Committee on Enforced Disappearance. Proposals by the Authorized Human Rights Council. Article 42, paragraph 2, provides for the non-recognition of the possibility of applying additional dispute resolution procedures. Again, the proposal of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u41	Sergey Anatolyevich, one second, if you please. Because I didn't put in a motion for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I have a great request to you that we vote on the issue in short notice. Is there no objection? Then I ask you to support the consideration of the draft Law 0030 by a reduced procedure. I ask you to support this proposal and vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:50:48]] For a hundred and Thank you. Sergei Anatolyevich, I'm sorry. Please continue your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u42	Ukraine's accession to the convention will be in the interests of our State and will contribute to improving the protection of human rights and freedoms, improving the legal mechanisms for overcoming the problems of violent disappearances, and fully implementing constitutional guarantees for the restoration of violations of human rights, which in turn will contribute to the creation of a positive image of our State at the international level. Implementation of the convention will not require additional costs from Ukraine’s state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u43	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered at its meeting yesterday a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's accession to the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Violent Disappearance. The purpose of the draft law is to implement the internal procedures necessary for Ukraine to join the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, which was adopted at 61 sessions of the UN General Assembly on 20 December 2006. The convention has now been signed by 94 states, and for 46 of them, the convention has become valid. In particular, for Argentina, the Federal Republic of Brazil, Chile, Japan, and the Republic of Lithuania. Ukraine's accession to this convention is in the interest of our State and will contribute to improving the protection of human rights and freedoms, to improving legal mechanisms to address the problem of violent disappearances, and to the full implementation of constitutional guarantees for the restoration of human rights violations, which in turn will contribute to the creation of a positive image of our State in the international arena. In particular, before the Council of Europe, this will be a very good moment to ratify this agreement. A big request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have five ratifications of important. And then there are a number of very important drafts on the openness of the activities of the Supreme Council, not about personal voting. So there is a request for us to be there where there is no need for broad discussion, perhaps so that we can avoid it so that we can go through the entire order of the day. Can I vote on this ratification? Then, fellow Members, I ask you to come into the hall, there will be a vote now, those who are in the towers, I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs, the faction secretariat and the Supreme Council, and I ask you to invite MPs into the hall, and I'm putting to the vote a draft law on the accession of Ukraine to the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from the Violent Disappearance No. 0030 as a whole. Please support the adoption of this law as a whole, please vote. [[10:54:30]] For 265 Decision taken. We have great potential today, regardless of skeptic predictions, and so we move on to the next bill. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Implementation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Support Organization (NAO) on the Re-storage of Radioactive Wastes formed by the military programmes of the former USSR in Ukraine. There is a request for this bill to be considered in the summary procedure, please support, we are voting in favour of a reduced procedure. [[10:55:25]] For-183 Decision taken. To the report I invite Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Kurikin Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the bill is intended to solve the problem that has been left to us since the former Soviet Union, namely to provide legal and legal conditions to prevent the disposal of radioactive wastes created by the military programmes of the Soviet Union during the 1960s and 1980s. Today, these wastes are stored on 6 objects in general. These objects are subordinated to public authorities, whose functions do not involve dealing with radioactive waste. Appropriately, it is necessary to store them before they are stored in order to ensure proper safe conditions. On the basis of this implementation agreement, the funds of the special trust fund, which was created in 2011, under the auspices of the NATO Support Organization, will be used to carry out this re-deposit. The first step is to resupply the wastes stored at the border point of Vakulenczuk, which is subordinated to the State’s Border Service. For these tasks, 508,000 euros are allocated and all other necessary jobs will be funded. The bill was supported and agreed upon without the attention of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u47	Thank you. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs of Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Implementation Agreement between the Cabinet and the NATO Organization to support the re-storage of radioactive wastes created by the military programmes of the former USSR in Ukraine. In our view, this bill needs to be considered and made in the first place, since it is primarily about the environmental security of our country, and Ukraine has been delaying this decision for so long since the agreement was signed in 2013. The purpose of this draft Ukrainian law is to create the legal basis for international technical and financial assistance from NATO member states, to implement a set of measures to re-storage the radioactive wastes created by the military programmes of the former Soviet Union. The agreement, as you have heard, refers to 6 objects. Unfortunately, three of them are now in Ukraine, which is not controlled by Ukraine at the moment, two of them are in Crimea, and one is in Donetsk. But the first stage of implementation of the agreement concerns the object of cancelling the disposal of the Tomb of the State of the border service of Vakulenczuk in the region of Žitomir and its implementation, as you have heard, is allocated 508,000 euros. As a result of its consideration of the bill on its committee, at its meeting, taking into account its importance, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill, the law, the draft law, and the ratification of the agreement. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? A deputy. There is a need for discussion, but only one person. Yeah? Two people. Then let's do 2 for, 2 for against. Please sign up, 2-for, 2-again, please. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u50	Please hand over Hani Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u51	Anna Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u52	Colleagues, please support this very important agreement that will help solve some of the environmental problems that have now arisen. But also a huge request to the government to finally submit documents for ratification in Parliament of the framework agreement between Ukraine and NATO on cooperation, which was signed on May 27th. It's a very important deal, and we're waiting for it in the summer session for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u53	Thank you. Vanat Peter Mikhailovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u54	I give the word to Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u55	Unguran, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, from the People's Front faction, we will definitely support the ratification of this Agreement implementing between the Cabinet of Ministers and the NATO organization. We understand the importance of repossessing radioactive waste. I also thank Sergio Ivanovich Kurikina for the detailed explanation. The only question is that we need to be more specific about funding sources, and this is where we need the ministry to work on this issue, because it's because UNODC is planning, as far as I can see, 100% funding. And the text of the agreement provides that the Ukrainian side agrees to take financial responsibility for the costs associated with any legal responsibility. So we support, the only thing that needs to be done by the Minecology, along with our external political authority, is to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Chubarov's handing over Fish, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u58	202 constituency, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Cherniewec district. Our faction will support this bill, but at the same time it is a very important bill in terms of our nation's environmental security. Such a bill cannot be considered by Parliament unless the bill has been considered by an appropriate committee of profile in the Supreme Council. The bill was registered only yesterday in Parliament and the Environmental Protection Committee in the Supreme Council did not even see it. But at the same time, we will support it because we understand that this bill is very important to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u60	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The Radical Party will also support the ratification of this document, but at the same time, we are drawing the attention of all parliamentarians to another improper performance of the Ministry of Ecology. Because the draft of this decree just, really, went to parliament yesterday, wasn't considered by the committee, and that indicates that the ministry officials are referring to Parliament, we're going to say, so cool. Plus, with the opportunity, I'd like to refocus my colleagues' attention on the need to consider as soon as possible the question of the resignation of the Minister of Ecology of Shevchenk, who became fully lit up in the corruption that was used by Mr. Onishchenka-Cadirov's plane when he was on vacation. At a time when my countrymen from Vasilkova did not know where the children were from the oil - based fire, he did not even show up. Therefore, the Radical Party will soon ask Parliament to consider the appropriateness of the occupied position of Shevchenk, for he spits on both the dead rescuers and the inhabitants of Basilsk. Plus, he needs an explanation for using a private jet when he was on vacation. And nothing funny that some bearded women who are in Parliament laugh at is here. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u61	Thank you. We've had a thorough discussion, let's go to the vote. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Implementation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization (number 0027) as a whole. Please, Your Honor, please support me, we vote. [[11:05:27]] For 272 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next draft law of order. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on conditions for the deployment of diplomatic representations of Ukraine in the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia in Ukraine. There is a request: a reduced procedure. Please support the proposal, for the summary procedure please vote. [[11:06:11]] For 193 Decision taken. And the report invites Deputy Foreign Minister Pristajko Vadim Volodymyrovich. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u62	Dear Chairman, distinguished national electorate! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has prepared a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on conditions for the deployment of diplomatic representations in Estonia and Ukraine, respectively. On April 11, 2013, this agreement was signed. We ask you to support this project in order to complete the necessary internal procedures. My point is that your colleagues from the Estonian Parliament completed all the procedures in April 2013. In short, what are we talking about? We're handing over to the Republic of Estonia an area of 298 square meters at Pushkinska, 43b at a symbolic price of 1 euro. In turn, we get in the center of Estonia, in the center of the capital of Estonia, an area of 2,000,479 meters -- 8 times the size of our embassy. We also rent a parking space for the Embassy of the Republic of Estonia in Ukraine for 49 years. The agreement has a technical nature. I'd like to support you. This will allow us to organize our diplomatic establishment in Estonia and the Estonian diplomatic institution in Kiev. Thank you. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Correspondent is Head of the European Integration Committee Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 8 June the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on conditions for the deployment of diplomatic representations in the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Estonia in Ukraine. And I unanimously decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. By making this decision, of course, we have come out of the fact that this will also contribute to the development of friendly relations between our countries, and will also allow the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of the agreement to be carried over to Ukraine's property, to accommodate its diplomatic representation buildings, to a land plot in the Republic of Estonia of 2 000,479 square meters for the contractual fee of 1 euro, and to the property of the Republic of Estonia of Estonia for the placement of its diplomatic representation in Ukraine, on the basis of an appropriate purchase contract, to sell a land plot of 298 square meters in the central part of Kiev, as well as at the conditional cost of 1 euro. Our committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the bill does not conflict with Ukraine's international legal obligations. And also, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that our committee's decision has been sent a letter to the Kyiv City Authority requesting that this issue be settled as quickly as possible in order not only to adopt the relevant law but also to implement it at the local level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Then I ask all the national deputies who find themselves in the towers to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia, no. 0026, as a whole. Please support me. Vote. In general. [[11:10:24]] For 288 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Reciprocal Employment of Family Workers of Foreign Diplomatic Institutions. And there is a request to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote and support. It's a short-term procedure. [[11:11:04]] For 199 Decision taken. And the report invites Deputy Foreign Minister Pristajko Vadim Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u66	Honorable Head, Honorable People’s Chosen One. On February 27, 2013, the Agreement was signed in the form of a note exchange between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual employment of members of families of foreign diplomatic representatives. On March 13, less than a month later, your Polish Parliamentary colleagues completed the procedure. I ask you to support this bill, which will allow you to work in one of the member states of our diplomats' families. We are talking about husbands, wives who have given up their careers in order to stay abroad with their families, not being able to complete their careers, to advance their ideas, their plans. They do not receive a pension in Ukraine after going with their husbands or wives. That's why I'm asking. These countries are few: so far up to a dozen countries, we have been able to sign the corresponding agreements, and the work is under way. One of the countries, I think we need to support and enable our embassy in Poland to develop more harmoniously their families, their families. And in general, I think it will contribute to strengthening our relationship between Poland and Ukraine in general. Thank you very much. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u67	Thank you. To the report. Mrs. Sotnik refuses to sing, she refuses to sing. Then there is the request for a vote. Will You Report? Then there is a request for an immediate vote in the hall. Is there no objection? Then, national deputies, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And the bill on ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland, number 0028. Please support this bill as a whole. Please vote. [[11:13:26]] For 301 Decision taken. We simply beat all the record of the presence of MPs. Thank you. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on air connections has been introduced for your consideration. There is a proposal to consider this draft regulation by a reduced procedure. Please vote. It's a bill. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[11:14:18]] For 197 Decision taken. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the head of the National Aviation Service of Ukraine, Antonyuk Denis Yuriovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Air Connection, developed by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the State Aviation Service, with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for making the agreement effective, which was signed in 2011 in the city of Kiev. Ratification of the agreement will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the United Kingdom. The implementation of the law does not require any funding from Ukraine’s state or local budgets, and all necessary arrangements have been made by all necessary ministries. Please support the government bill, taking into account that it has already been registered twice in the Supreme Council for the seventh time. Sadly, though, he was not considered in a plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Please report, member of the Mustafa Nayem European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Air Communications and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. In making such a decision, the committee’s national deputies were of the opinion that ratification would allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary to conclude the agreement. I would also like to inform our colleagues that the implementation of this agreement will provide an opportunity to improve bilateral cooperation between our countries and the contractual legal basis for regular transport between Ukraine and the United Kingdom, as well as the regulation of international flights in the operation of contractual lines. Another important tool is to move from tariff approval to tariff monitoring and to restrict the involvement of the aviation authorities in the pricing process. So thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? Will we vote now? Vote. Well, please sign two for two, two for the other. Please, Leo Podlisecki, "self-help", has a wish to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u73	I have a question for the reporter, but he's talking. Mr. Filatov, can I ask you a question? It's taking me a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u74	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u75	Antonyuk, can I ask you a question? Give me some time, please. I have a question for Mr. Antonyuk. What steps did he take to bring about an open - air treaty? First. The second question. What new directions have been opened to us from Ukraine in the last six months from Borispol Airport, the Julians, other airports? And what's the situation with the open sky at the lion's airport right now? Whether a given agreement that can improve or simply be, something that really does or does not. Because our main goal is to establish an open-air agreement with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, let me report then. The first question is the second in terms of a common aviation space agreement. Today, Ukraine has done its utmost to sign it. Moreover, taking into account what is essentially a common aviation space agreement is Ukraine's decision to implement hundreds of documents that regulate all the aviation activities that are currently being used in Europe. And of these hundreds of documents, more than a third of them are now being implemented without even waiting for this document to be adopted. Moreover, recent negotiations have taken place with Moldovans and Georgians, who now have a signed Agreement on Common Aviation Space. And in Ukraine, Ukraine is a few years ahead of Georgia and Moldova, which have already signed this treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Logwinsky, do you insist on the performance? Are you insisting? Please, People's Republic of Logwinsky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u78	Good afternoon! The People's Front faction of the People's Front supports the bill. At the same time, I have a question for the Head of Aviation of the following nature. Of course, we are putting very important issues on the agenda for our State, but it is still unclear why Russian aircraft are crossing the border of our territory and why there are no sanctions against the aggressor country's airline, why ships are not arrested, and why. What I would like to know is exactly what the public service is doing on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u79	I think it might be possible to give a written answer to the national MP. That would be a lot, I think, fundamental. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u80	On our part, from the State Aviation Service and the Ministry of Infrastructure, everything has been done to bring it into the legal field, to make a decision and to make it as legally as possible. These lawsuits have long been referred to the Ministry of Justice, and they are now in the Ministry of Justice, so that the State’s executive service can do so and do so. As of now, everything the State Aviation Service and the Ministry of Infrastructure could do, they've done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Igor Moseschuk does not insist on the faction. Don't insist. From the Opoblok faction, a minute, Igor Šurm, and we move on to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u82	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to colleagues who are trying to work for the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, there are many observations regarding compliance with the Law on the Rules of Procedure with the presiding officer. But I do have proposals for deputies who are now taking part in the discussion. You vote first, until the green button becomes red, for the shorter procedure, and then you break the same procedure. There are no questions about the reduced procedure, but you are the Rules, the Rules of Procedure Act, read it, or vote properly and make a decision! What discrimination we now discriminate against each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u83	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the draft Law (registration number 0029) has been introduced to your vote. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Air Connection. As a result of the discussion, it is suggested that the draft Law on Ratification should be adopted as a whole. It's this proposal I'm putting to the vote for a profile committee. Please prepare yourself, colleagues, and we vote 0029 as a whole. Please vote 0029 in general. [[11:23:22]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go over the draft laws in the first reading. You have before you the draft Law (Registration No. 1829) amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental on improving the legal regulation of leases, prepared by National Deputy Alexei. There is a proposal by the author of the bill to review the draft law by a reduced procedure. This is a proposal I am putting to the vote for consideration of this draft law under reduced procedure, please identify yourself. [[11:24:13]] For-187 Decision taken. Igor Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u84	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental for the Improvement of Rent Relations (registration No. 1829). This bill is another step towards improving the law of profile and strengthening the interests of the State and municipal owners in the process of renting state and municipal property. This bill proposes a series of provisions. First of all, it is established that it is impossible for the renter to apply for leased property and for the renter to perform actions that may result in a change in the form of ownership of the property. Second, the bill proposes to establish, at the legislative level, the renter’s obligation to compensate for the loss of leased property. In addition, the bill proposes to establish, at the level of government, a mechanism for the return of the sole assets of state-owned enterprises and individual-defined property in the event of a break-up or termination of a lease agreement. Such a mechanism will enhance the coordination of the Fund’s activities with relevant sectoral ministries. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Secretary of the Economic Policy Committee Bogdan Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 19 March considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property to improve the legal regulation of leases made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexeiev. The purpose of this bill is to improve the efficiency of the rental of state and municipal property, to increase the income from rent to government local budgets, and to strengthen the protection of the property interests of the State and the territorial communities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the first reading of the draft law could be based on the following considerations, observations and proposals. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property to improve the legal regulation of leases to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign two for two, two against. Please. Please, People's Deputy Krivenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u88	This bill is very much needed today. I will name only two innovations, and his need will immediately become clear. First. The leased property cannot be transferred to the leaser’s loan. So it can't be alienated if the loan isn't returned. That's the first one. The other one. If the leased property is insured, in the event of an insurance, the cost will be paid by the bookkeeper or the owner of the property, not by the renter. I mean, if the tenant messes up this place, then the owner gets the money back. So the People's Front faction supports this bill and urges everyone to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u89	Please, National Deputy Vlasenko Sergei, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! I was surprised to hear the previous speaker speak, and I have a simple question, and what kind of law can a tenant today get on loan? What kind of innovation do we have? That's the first one. Secondly, I have great advice to read the law that is proposed to be done by this law, and I quote: "an authority authorized to manage property within 35 working days of the granting of an agreement on the rental of an entire property complex of an enterprise, ensures that attention is given to the registration by this enterprise of ownership rights for the property of an enterprise if, at the time of granting such consent, ownership rights have not been registered." What does that mean? This is a very simple situation, which means that the lease agreement is now the legal basis for registering property rights. You know, it's some kind of legal abracadabra. Please note that if you want to rent utility property, pick up all documents, register ownership of the company, obtain the consent of the authorized authority, and rent. And there's no problem, and no tenant will be able to take credit for that property, because that's impossible under the law. You don't have to come up with some abstract stuff, so we're proposing that this bill be returned very correctly to the authors for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u92	Please pass the word "Bird Victoria."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u93	People's deputy Birddog.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I want to point out to you that the conceptual things that improve the treaty itself and the essential terms of the contract, we agree with them. And we can only vote on the basis. But we agree with our colleagues from Fatherland and, in particular, we would like to draw attention to another flaw in the bill, which, if adopted, must necessarily be further developed in the second reading. These include exclusions from the List of held objects that cannot be rented, property owned by enterprises operating in the field of metrology, certification, and standardization. That's not possible. So we have to work on the second reading here as well. And I would like to draw your attention separately to the question, by the way, of the Economic Policy Committee, whose meeting today is due to take place. And it is possible that there will be no quorum in this session. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when a matter of privatization is brought to our meeting, the Committee of Economic Policy is asked of us, we have almost complete quorum, we have a full membership of the committee. And when there are fine bills on our committee that really aim to stop corruption, particularly in public procurement, the quorum of the Economic Policy Committee is facing a huge issue. Today we have to look at a bill in the field of public procurement aimed at overcoming corruption. That's why I'm calling on the members of the Economic Policy Committee: not to interrupt a committee meeting and come to a meeting today, I think, at three o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues. Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Rebirth Group. Dear colleagues, this bill needs further work, because, first of all, the lease needs to be given the property that is already properly valued. Secondly, it is only up to the renter to transfer the property, so the term "balancemaker" proposed in the bill is unacceptable. Thirdly, the State Register of Real Estate Rights should have all the enterprises and there can be no other. It is therefore appropriate to prohibit the rental of state or municipal immovable property that is not registered in such a register. So I agree that this bill should be sent for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. We have the Law on Associations of Local Self - Government. The law regulates the rental of state and municipal property. Well, with the state, I get it, and about the rent of utility property, did they consult with local government, with associations, discuss this issue? They're going to use that property. Obviously, such a discussion has not been conducted, and this means that there is a narrowing of the rights of local self - government to manage the property of the territorial community, not taking their opinion into account. So I think it should always be taken into account. Dear colleagues, the draft Act (registration No. 1829) has been introduced for your consideration of the voting: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental on improving the legal regulation of leases, which has just been discussed, and you have heard the factions' position on this issue. Please make a suggestion: based on the draft law. Based on the base. [[11:34:55]] For-137 137 votes. Obviously, the law is unacceptable and considered to be rejected. Let's move on. 1586: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Combating poaching and Protecting the Environment. Prepared by national deputy Oleg Kuprienka. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[11:35:45.]] For 184 As long as the National MP goes to the report, I have requests, honourable committee leaders, honourable national MPs, if we're taking initiatives concerning local self-government, let's at least have a preliminary consultation with the local self-government authorities in order to reconcile positions on how to settle some issues. Please, I would like to take this into account in my work because we accept it and then do it. Please, Oleg Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, a bill is being proposed for your consideration, which regulates the situations that you are currently seeing on the screen. Not so long ago we had May Day, and many of us went out into the countryside, and it was not our own place that we could see our forests sneezing, our forests burning, killing wild poachers. Why is this happening? Because finding an official who can at least record this violation and file an administrative protocol is practically nonexistent in the legislation. The forest and hunting officials cannot do everything physically because, for example, there are as many as five decades in the Chernigiv area, half of which are the heads of forests, who do not go out to fix such administrative violations that cannot be in the forest every day. Literally two days ago, at an open meeting of the Prime Minister's Cabinet, he asked our chief forestman: "What do you have to do for how you plan to fight fires, including fires?"and he says, "And we're going to get 3,000 extra people to protect the woods." Yes, dear seniors, we have in our country today 1,057 hunting farms, which employs 10,000 officials. Let's give the eger service the right to determine the administrative violation and what we see may be less. A very simple bill, a half sentence in 245 articles to the list of officials is added to the egeri, the Yegerian Service, the hunting industry, which, according to the classification of the profession, operates 5169 and we regulate everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u100	The committee concluded that it should be accepted in the first reading. I don't know what to add to another. There's a lot of it: egers and dignitaries. Let's vote it both on the ground and on the whole. And we give the authorities the right to protect our nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u102	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Supreme Council's Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement considered at its meeting draft Law No. 1586 amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in the fight against poaching and the protection of the environment. The bill is proposed by means of additions to part two of article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences, which provides for administrative offences (there are the articles referred to by Mr. Kuprienko), officials and egers of hunting grounds. As evidenced by the practice, the removal of officials from the hunting grounds of private hunting farms in 2012 has led to a significant increase in poaching. You know what that was during the period. And why so much of that power that went into oblivion, I think, has always been a lot of love to go hunting. And of course, the eger and all the others who controlled the situation were not needed. And it was a decision that was made, and they were deprived of the right to draw up administrative protocols to create, I'm sorry, a mess. That's why the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that this bill, and I thank this office, can be accepted as a basis. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. And in principle, I support Mr. Cooperian. Chairman Vladimir Borisovich may be taken under the responsibility of the committee as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Please sign in, two for, two against, honorary colleagues. Or we vote if we don't. Vote? Vote. All right, stop the recording. I understand we're voting. Yes, all right, all right, we're voting. Colleagues, 1586 as a foundation and as a whole. On the basis and in general. But there are two words literally in the law. But it's important. On the basis, colleagues, and in general, 1586, at the suggestion of the People's Deputies of Kuprienka. Colleagues, based and in general. On the basis and in general. [[11:41:57]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the creation of favourable conditions for the provision of educational services to pre-school and general educational institutions of non-state ownership) (Registration No. 2276). The author is national deputy galasjuk. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:42:40]] For-191 Decision taken. Please report, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I present to you the bill 2276 on the creation of favourable conditions for the provision of educational services to preschool and general educational institutions of non-state ownership. The authors of the bill are Lasko, Galasjuk, Greenevich, Prodan, Kirsz, Krivenko, Parasuk, Dombrovski, Zabolotny, Chicken. The bill proposes to exempt preschool and general educational institutions from several types of taxes: income tax, real estate tax and land tax, regardless of the form of their property. That's the idea. You and I understand that the state does not have the resources to develop a state network of educational institutions. So how can private equity be involved to invest in education? Only one way is to create attractive conditions for him, the same conditions as for state ownership. So we're proposing to equalize the non-state and state form of property in this part of the educational system and to do so. With which, honourable colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill in writing and to accept it today as a whole. Why is this so important? Because the Ministry of Finance has offered to rule out tax exemptions, but that's impossible to do. The Treasury says there's a potential loss of 17 million dollars. But, dear fellow national MPs, let's see if the Ministry of Finance has counted that in Ukraine only 52 percent of children in general are enrolled in kindergartens? Did they count that nearly 10,000 kindergartens and more than 4,000 schools had disappeared during independence? So we don't have the opportunity, we don't just have the moral right to continue this trend. So, honourable fellow MPs, I ask you to support the bill in the author's writing today as a whole and give a signal to the educational sector. Because investment in education, investment in science is the most valuable thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u105	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u106	Because, in fact, investment in education, in preschool, in school is today the most valuable thing the state can do to make us a successful global nation, which is respected in Europe, which lives by European standards not only politically but economically, scientifically, technologically. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill as a whole in the authors' paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u108	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on May 20, 2015, reviewed the bill. The rapporteur has already submitted the bill in substance. So I would like to report that during the session, members of the committee generally supported the proposals, but they made a number of comments on the proposed text of the bill. In view of what it was decided to exclude from the text a provision for the exemption of preschool and general educational institutions from paying corporate income tax, since such educational institutions should meet the criteria for nonprofit. So in order not to pay income taxes, you have to register with a nonprofit organization. And then this problem will solve itself. If there is a profit to be paid to dividends to the founders of such enterprises and such establishments, well, such an organization should pay income tax on general grounds. With regard to the exemption from land tax due to the fact that similar positions are already contained by the committee for consideration in the second reading of Bill 1850-1, which is in the order of the day’s session this week, we also propose to exclude. It was also noted that some of the provisions of the bill needed clarification. This is the list of buildings for which it is proposed to be exempt from the property tax. Because in accordance with article 38 of the Education Act, the material technical base of the educational institution includes not only buildings in which education is conducted directly, but also buildings, communications, inventory and service housing. In general, taking into account the relevance of the bill, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft should be adopted on the basis of exclusions
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u109	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u110	With the exception of sub-paragraphs one and three, which I have just explained, chapter I of the bill. And three, it's about exempting the land tax provided for in Law 1850, which is on that Sunday on Thursday. If we don't specify the list of buildings that we're exempting from the real estate tax for which the committee's comments were made, then only then, but 1 and 3 should be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u111	Based on what? Yeah, okay. Dear colleagues, please report and report back to us. 2 is in favour, 2 is against, and we're going to go to the vote. Please sign up, 2 for, 2 for against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u112	Razwadovski Viktor Josephovich, "Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u114	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u115	Dear Head, dear colleagues! It is quite clear that this bill must be adopted and acceptable for us to adopt it definitively as a law. But I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, the MPs, first of all, the Mayors. We can adopt this law, but soon there will be no schools, schools, especially in rural areas. There is now an arbitrary process of closing schools. Local authorities often act as occupying authorities in this matter, however, on other matters. No one asks the opinion of the community on this matter. I would like to point out that people often find out from district newspapers that schools in their village are closed and there will be no school for the next school year. There's a draft decree for the Supreme Council to decide on the moratorium on school closings, at least until it's clear what the territorial administration of Ukraine will be, which we'll have communities, which will be the number of districts, and then make the optimal decision. Obviously that's the right thing to do, to understand the offer. I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for tomorrow, on Thursday to bring this matter up for consideration so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can determine itself and, first of all, that senior MPs have the opportunity to give motivated answers to people while they are in the districts. I understand that the parties have little interest in this, so first of all, I appeal to the MPs who are elected to major districts. On Thursday, please ask this question, although I understand that no one is interested in this problem right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana, the Radical Party, passes the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The radical party is primarily interested in the health of the Ukrainian nation and education, because without education and health, you know how people say, as sick and stupid, no one needs you — either to themselves or to people. We are absolutely convinced that the guarantee of our country's development is a quality education for our children and it's medicine. Medicine! To prevent people from going to the hospital when the cancer is in its final stage, it is a diagnostic to save people at the earliest stages of the disease. What about the subject matter of this bill? We offer to exempt preschool schools, educational institutions, such as kindergartens and schools from land payments, from real estate taxes, and to pay income taxes. And the profits that they may receive, let them invest, not on dividends, but in the development of a school: computer equipment, new schools, facilities, sports courses, and so forth. In this regard, we call on Parliament to support, including the Bill of Denis Silantiev and fellow members of the people’s deputies of 2068 on the exemption from taxation of institutions of physical culture and sport. We don't tax them! Taxes should be applied to oligarchs, not schools, kindergartens, or stadiums! Because the kids go to the gym instead of going to the physical health complex, running in the stadiums, and being healthy, beautiful, smart, and building a future Ukrainian state. Only quality education, only quality medicine, is the guarantee of a future state. Because if we don't let the kids know, if they're not healthy, we don't have a future in our country. Therefore, they need to be supported, including by exempting them from taxation. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u118	Thank you. Victoria Bird, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u119	Please tell Aunty Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the issue of education is certainly a key issue today. And as a mother of two, I know how difficult it is to have a child in a state school today. So we have to think, without a doubt, on a national level, what are the weights that will enable us to support private preschool and public education institutions. However, the bill proposes to exempt taxation from income tax. But to this day our state does not regulate the value of education services in private educational institutions. And so the question of providing tax benefits in part of the exemption from income tax cannot be regarded as a necessary condition for State support. Because we can't guarantee that this money that we're going to release from the income tax will be reinvested in what Oleg Valeriyovich was talking about, the acquisition of computers and the material and technical base. So we're unreservedly proposing, the Self-Help faction is proposing to support this initiative as proposed by the committee on the basis of tax exemption from immovable property taxes, while clarifying the list of buildings between the first and the second readings. And with regard to the exemption from land tax, we have this week a daily bill of 1850-1, and it provides for exemption from land taxes and public and non-state educational institutions. We have to vote this question already this week and decide once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! What do we do together as a coalition by adopting this bill? And we're doing the Constitution. Because the Constitution says, regardless of which property, there should be a normal level of taxation. Tell me, please, that you didn't know before that even electricity and all the other utilities for non-state public education and preschoolers were sold as commercial enterprises. They were never equal to that State. And tell me, please, what should we do, as Tetjana Ostrikova said, to the mothers who want to earn the internship that you took for 30 years, how should she not have children? Because you have given birth, you have reduced the child's money, and now there are no gardens, please tell me, are you men, you are most of this Supreme Council, you must do something to ensure that the woman has equal rights that you have guaranteed to the Constitution? And that's why the adoption of this bill is 100 percent supported by "Paternity" adoption as a whole. Why don't I agree with Mrs. Auntie on the part of taxation? Mrs. Tetjana, there is no question today for tax authorities to control the purpose of using the funds that we exempt from taxation. But today, in the course of Mr. Lithuania’s speech, the authorities eliminated the school, there was an entrepreneur in an existing school who had discovered both kindergartens and schools. And we're going to help them -- it's an opportunity to protect ourselves today from losing the birth of children and the future of our children. The "Fatherland" party is calling for this bill to be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u124	Please, People's Deputy Shipko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! The idea is very good and interesting, but I'm a little bit doubtful that by lowering taxes to such private schools, the cost of learning will be reduced there, and the money will no longer go into the budget. So I am very much asking the authors of this bill, and I think that the law should prescribe such a rule that we are releasing private educational institutions where at least 20 percent of children from low-income families and orphans will be free of charge. If it's accepted, we'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Dobrenkov, Opoblok, People's Deputy of Doubenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u127	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! The Opposition Block faction will of course not stand outside the issue of taxation of both preschool and educational institutions. We are also concerned about the fate of both education and education. Of course, in conditions where the current authority is doing a reduction in the network, which was previously branched out, but unfortunately now it's not as branched, preschool, school institutions, as noted by the previous representatives, who have been chosen by the majority system. We note that we support the committee's position in that part to support the bill as a basis, because the tax exemption is really a regime that belongs to non-profit institutions. If we're suggesting that we actually exempt the tax from tax, we might write on second reading to apply the rate zero percent. As for the impossibility of applying the specified benefit to privately owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u128	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u129	We believe that there should be equal tax conditions for both state utilities and non-state ownership. Because in terms of total reduction of the branch network we need to create the maximum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the principle of this bill is to expand access to education. We today have huge problems with access to preschool education and we have problems with access to quality education in general educational institutions. The private education sector is shrinking dramatically. Because of the decline in population and living standards, it cannot afford opportunities in the private education sector. I want to point out that if the committee and the deputies have doubts about the fact that these preschool institutions don't invest their profits in an investment facility, but are distributed among investors, then we can make such a precondition in the second reading regime. But not now in the first reading do we insist on removing certain points. So I urge everyone to follow procedure, to approve as a basis, though I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u132	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u133	On the basis and in general. If the committee insists on individual factions, allow for amendments to the second reading and adoption of the bill with these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important. I'm here to support Lilia Greenevich that we don't give much time to the education system in the session hall, so that it's a principled question of first and second reading. You might agree with the committee's warnings, but you might want to adopt it in the first and in general, because a few of the rules of this law, which Mrs. Yuzanin's committee chief spoke about, will be in our 1851 bill. And I, Mr. Head, ask you to come to this bill tomorrow, 1851, because a similar situation is now, especially when, if we reach mid-term, imagine, half-yearly, the reserves, schools, museums, preschool facilities will be forced to pay the land tax on money that is not there. So my suggestion is to find a compromise and today's bill to accept as a whole, perhaps as a committee, and tomorrow as a matter of fact, to support 1851.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u136	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we've just all said that the three tasks that the bill puts in place are going to be implemented. But the first and third points are already, at the first point, the tool does not pay the income tax and reinvest all of the revenue received in such institutions is there. You have to register and gain the status of a non-profit organization, you don't have to install any income tax benefits, it's wrong. Now we're completely changing the ideology: non-profit – register and work, please, and direct all profits to your very goal. The third issue will be resolved tomorrow in Bill 1850-1, so it is necessary to adopt in the first reading the deletion of paragraphs 1 and 3 of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u138	Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues. There is a proposal to proceed as follows. What's there to look at, 1850? Today we're looking at a bill, let's do this: we're going to accept it today as a whole, and we're going to add a rule that the revenue that comes out of this special rule is directed exclusively at the development of all educational institutions, we're going to record it and we're going to vote in general. Dear colleagues, let's give normal conditions for the development of education in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, here's the deal. There's a lot of different points on this point, but I think all the thoughts need to be systematized in preparing for the second reading, and in one week we can work qualitatively and not make any problems with it. So I'm proposing that we adopt this bill on the basis of the committee's proposals, and I'm going to continue with the short proposal to make a short-term proposal to prepare for the second reading. 2276 Please prepare a committee proposal based on accounting, based on the committee’s proposal. 2276 based on the committee's proposal. Vote. Based on the base. And then I'm going to set up a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading. Based on the base. [[12:05:23]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Again? Let's go back. Lilia Greenevich, Lilia Greenevich, please. One minute, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, why can't we just vote on the basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u142	And because, Lilia Mikhailovna is great, there are many suggestions for deputies that you have just heard from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u143	We have time for a second reading, an amendment to a second reading. Why do we now have to delete part of the draft text in the first reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u144	Lilia Mikhailovna, we're adopting a draft law as a whole if there's no objection here. If there's a objection, you'll be working on a reduced procedure on the committees. On the basis of that, that's right. In return, let's vote back. To return to the consideration of this matter. [[12:06:29]] For 281 Then the proposal is based. Based, based on. Let's get the signal on a base, signal. I see there's another position, my friends. You're about to break the law. Based, based on. Signal on a base, I understand? Please, Eugene, head of the committee. Wait a minute. Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, two options: to accept as an exception to paragraphs 1 and 3. Wait! And the second option is, except for the 1st and the 3rd, and in general, that the second rule works now. And the 1st and the 3rd are off.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u146	Dear friends, we accept, we work together on the committee. There'll be no understanding. There won't be any law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u147	You just can't use the base because we can't rule out 1 and 3 points then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u148	Please prepare for the vote. 2276, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the provision of educational services to preschool and general educational institutions of non-state ownership. I would ask the national deputies to work more carefully on the committees and not to create a double approach to these issues. Please, based on 2276, on a base. On the basis of that, look at the second reading. Based on the base. [[12:08:45]] For 274 Friends, 274. Next. Next, then, we keep working on the second reading. If no understanding and compromise is found, there will be no law. That's it. Please have a brief preparation proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. As far as the law is concerned, there is a reduced procedure. [[12:09:15]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I would ask you very carefully to work on the committee for second reading. There's an offer, colleagues, look, there's an offer to work all the time. Then let's vote on this proposal? Well, look, it's just this morning's meeting. You start working on committees at lunchtime. Is it 30 minutes, an hour and a half to stop at work? Colleagues, the invitation of the Chief of the Supreme Council to work uninterruptedly until the second hour of the day! Please support this proposal. Let's vote. Without further ado, please support this proposal. No breaks. [[12:10:12]] For 185 There's a 30-minute break. Thank you. At 12.40, everyone please arrive at the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the hall to continue our work. Break time is over. We now have extremely important bills on opening up the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on personal voting. It is essential that a quorum is needed and that we be able to vote on laws against buttoning. And so I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and get ready for work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members to the session room. Dear colleagues, I strongly invite all the deputies to the hall. The heads of factions are requested through the secretariat to invite deputies. A separate appeal to Self-Help to communicate with colleagues so that they can come to the hall, extremely important bills. I'd like a colleague of the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we're not enough to continue our work. Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall and get ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u150	We continue our work, our distinguished fellow national MPs. Important Law Registration No. 1591, prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, who will report to Svetlana Zalitschuk. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its committees and Ukrainian National Deputies. I believe that the key position of our work is openness at all stages of legislation, both the work of the Ukrainian National Deputy within the powers and the work of the committees, and directly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I would ask that we consider this bill carefully enough, because it is important for the transparency of our relationship with you, fellow believers, and activities. We have a proposal to look at this draft law in a simplified way, because there is a full-blown agenda. I'm not going to limit my colleagues to admissions if that's necessary, but that's what we're going to have to do with a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please, let's get to the bottom of this, there's a proposal for a reduced procedure to start consideration of this issue, please prepare yourself and support Svetlana Zalitschuk's proposal. Are you ready to vote, colleagues, on the consideration of this draft law by a reduced procedure? Importantly, since we have just over an hour to complete the morning session, I ask you to support this offer. Please, colleagues, we have an hour's work left, so I'd like to support the short-term procedure, please vote on this issue under reduced procedure, please support. [[12:52:42]] For 165 Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Svetlana Zlatczyk. But I would like to concentrate and listen carefully to the substance of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media, I propose your opinion to Bill 1591 and may I have your attention, please? So this bill is going to change four basic things. The first is free media access to the work of committees as former journalists, we have often fought, almost not physically, for our right to be present, for example, on the budget committee, to see and pass on to society, how people vote for decisions. Among other things, this law proposes online broadcasting of committee work to make it possible, as public as possible for society. The other one. All the assistants, the names of the assistant consultants should be on the site. Enough to hire a relative, enough to use the ID card of the National Deputies to resolve their business interests. Third. We propose in this bill that the full text of the parliamentary requests be published on the Supreme Council website, not just the names. Enough to use tools as important as parliamentary appeals, parliamentary queries to resolve their business conflicts. And finally, fourth. We suggest that all the transcripts and protocols of committee work be public, too. It is fair to note that the speaker of the Supreme Council has made many of these things public. Yet the speaker’s good will, along with the speaker, can change. We at the legislative level have to ensure this transparency. I want to point out that the regulatory committee has the right points and we promise to take them into account before the second reading. And lastly, I want to address all the journalists who are in each of our factions, Victoria Sumar, as a former journalist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u152	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u153	I want to contact the self-help journalists, Egor Sobolev, please support me, I want to go to Fatherland, Igor Lucenka for support. And I'll be grateful to the faction if you support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, Regulatory Committee, First Deputy Head. The account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u155	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting on 8 April had previously reviewed the draft Law (1591), proposed to amend the bill to a number of articles of the Ukrainian Laws on the Status of the People's Deputies, on the Committee of the Supreme Council and on the Supreme Council Regulations. It is suggested, in particular, to post information about the meetings of the Supreme Council, to provide a necessarily audio, the video broadcast is no longer relevant, the issue is solved. To publish the Supreme Council's fundraiser project on the Supreme Council site, it's no longer an issue, issues solved. The news of the committee meeting is no longer relevant, the question is solved. To publish on the Supreme Council’s website a monthly list of naphthas that have received funds to compensate for the cost of travel is no longer relevant, issues have been resolved. To publish every month, to update on the website of the People's Deputy and the site of the Supreme Council a list of consulting assistants, the issue has already been resolved. Thus, the only bill, which is a relative novelty, is the establishment of an obligation to manage the affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out online transmissions of committee meetings. The essential point of the Legislative Committee to this bill is that it is uncalculated, and the Supreme Council is of the opinion that it needs to apply additional technical decisions and appropriate additional funding, the source of which is not defined by the draft legislative act. Accordingly, the committee decided to amend the draft law to the authors of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I appreciate the position of the Parliamentary Authority, but as Head of the Supreme Council, I fully support this initiative on the transparent work of Parliament's committees and the entire Parliament. And I think that when we do this norm with you, and as Svetlana Zalitschuk said, a lot of things have been put in place with you by order and decision of the Head of the Supreme Council. But when it puts it in the rules of law, I think we can also find non-budgetary funds for the technical provision of committee work. And I would like every committee to work on an appropriate standard, openness, transparency, public work and maximum involvement in the process of public law. These are basic things that will allow us to do quality work. And we can do that with you, there's no problem. And what's important is that openness is the very best tool, the very best cure for corruption, from abuse, from inefficiency, and that's the most powerful guarantee that our work is Parliamentary work, that parliamentarians will be highly promoted. And most importantly, it will increase people's trust. We're the only organ with you, colleagues, the only one in the country that works fully online and everyone sees how we work with you, the whole production process. But it's incomplete, people only see what's going on in the Parliament Hall, and a huge amount of work is going on in the Committees by the National Deputies. And when people see this part of the work, then you can understand this complete picture of lawmaking. So I'm going to ask all my colleagues to support this bill. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Oleg Kuprienka. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The Radical Party faction will unanimously support the bill because without free access, without free press, a free state is impossible. Let us support the first reading. I think we can work on it and we need to work on it. I didn't understand the position of the committee on this issue, this is the second ununderstood position after the Clovis decision was made within a week, and now they don't want to make free access to committee work and to the activities of the National Deputies. At the same time, we consider it necessary to note that it is necessary to highlight the work of the MPs and not only what the author of the bill says, but also on the issue of cooperation of the national deputies with various foreign funds, receiving different foreign grants, visiting foreign embassies, it is unknown for what purpose. And then they co-operate with the funds, then they set up provocations like gay parades, and then a bunch of detainees -- and on the international scene, a scandal about Ukraine. So we think that the work of the MPs should be explained, including by working with funds that grant grants, where some national MPs lobby for bills and engage in media cleavage. We support it in the first reading. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u158	Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block. Alexi Mushak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u159	Request to give the word to our colleague, Victoria Sumar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u160	Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u161	Thank you. It's the Peter Dusty Block. Colleagues, you and I have one very serious problem: it's a crisis of trust, a crisis of trust. And probably with every week of our work, it's not always an effective job, we confess ourselves, this crisis is only getting worse. We are constantly seeing a decline in confidence in political parties, political factions, and Parliament as a whole. The only way to strengthen that trust is to be as transparent as possible, to show people what we really do, not just here in the hall, when we walk around, when we laugh not at the subject, when we interrupt each other, but when we actually work on committees, when we operate on arguments when we make laws. In today's world, not to provide an online broadcast of the committee's work is a shame, it's a confession that we're not just a third world state, but much worse, it's a confession that we're just a banana republic. So let's think properly about what we're gathering here, not to solve our problems or our ambitions, but to let people understand what the Ukrainian Parliament is doing for the state of Ukraine. You can't just, you can't vote for this bill. You can't say that the Chief of the Supreme Council has done everything, because the other Head of the Supreme Council can just change that. This has to be the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u162	Thank you. National MP Paul Kishkar, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u163	We're really nothing to talk about, we're totally outspoken. I would like to point out that once we have made open committee meetings, it is worth considering and complementing the procedures of openness regarding the work of local governments. Because we've encountered a real problem in places where we can find out what kind of decision the board has taken or whether the sites are usually either incomplete or not working, and so on-line broadcasts of local council meetings, that's also important. In addition to being open, Self-Help offers open tenders, open online accounts of government authorities, state-owned enterprises and local self-government bodies, this is the way to overcome corruption, real steps towards overcoming corruption, when you can't manipulate one or the other decisions when your expenses are seen online. You paid for the light as an organ of local self-government, you can see that you paid for the clinic or any other service, you can see that immediately. And we consider such steps to be effective and helpful in overcoming corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sažko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u165	Please pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u166	Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u167	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that transparency of activity, both for individual deputies and for the actions of the Supreme Council, should be transparent. First of all, it should be said that this rule would not be the right will of the Head or Chairman, which would be a legislative norm. Then it will be clear to everyone what the cost is and how much it takes to maintain the Supreme Council. To make it clear that if there is no money, everyone, including the chairman, has to fly, let's say, on a flight abroad rather than charter flights. To make it clear that the members of the Supreme Council who received or received compensation did not live in hotels at the expense of the state after six months. All of this needs to be done with certainty. As for online transmissions, let's be aware. Do you have any idea what you're going to turn television into if 27 committees go online? To publish the work, let's say the committees are definitely necessary. As far as ratings are concerned. Transparency is not a rating. The good people who will save the political parties, if there was a historic moment yesterday, Honduras went around the GDP per capita of Ukraine. We are at the very end of the day. Today, ratings are government activity and its social component to protect people. It's people who will rate the ratings. And no direct broadcasts will help. I refer to the author of the bill. Superinitive, only if you only refer to the leaders of the coalition, will you accept this law in your coalition. I think you're a Democrat and I think you're working for all of Ukraine. Therefore, when seeking support, contact the entire session room. And the next is about order of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u168	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u169	I am addressing all the deputies: let us not leave the Presidency of the Supreme Council. Why is the door to the hall, which serves both for the head and for the deputies, a door for the deputies? You're walking around.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u170	Democracy. But I agree that this is a fair offer not to distract the presidency. Dear colleagues, please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute. Next, Eutusek Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, in fact, this is what we're doing right now, it's such a "mouse ascension," a "handicraft" and a "martial." This should be done quietly. Dear colleagues, we don't have law enforcement. Dear colleagues, we don't have powers. What are we talking about? What do we show? I suggest we stop this discussion. There's only one expression missing here: "Who doesn't vote for it, who does it for the Moscows." You know, there's only one expression missing. We vote and we stop talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u172	Please, Sergey Eutusek of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u173	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Honorable National Deputies! The Fatherland faction will also unanimously support this bill, because in our personal positions we have already established that we personally vote that we are open and, frankly speaking, not only here in Parliament, but we are talking about what we are supposed to do with the low-level management chains from the village and up to, including the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. I would also like to support a speaking representative of the Euro-optimists, who is also part of the unification of which I also join. To support that from our first meeting we also talk about personal voting, about openness. And this is the concept of the work of the European Parliament and of the European institutions. And I also want to support Speaker Groysman, who's also doing his work, and that impresses us, openness, transparency. But we want to put it in the legal order. That's why we're voting. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u174	Thank you for the warm word. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, one minute, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u175	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the fact that this bill has support in the hall is obvious. But I'd like to take this moment and call on the Cabinet of Ministers we've hired to do the same. For in recent times it has been fashionable to make members of the nation’s enemies, who appear to be the main cause of all the troubles in Ukraine. Soon it will come to the point that any bogeyman will give a foothold to a national MP who is being translated into all the problems of the country. The salary in Kabmin is allowed to be twice as high, and the national deputy is allowed to sit on a minimum. Every Kabmin has a car, and a vagrant deputy and a parasite who turns out to be able to walk and, at the same time, to thank every parasite he meets. Gentlemen, I do not speak for the fact that a deputy should be above the law, but a deputy should not be under the feet. Yes, transparency is the absolute condition of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u176	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u177	Yes, transparency is the absolute condition of Parliament's work here and on the committees. But transparency is required in the work of the government and its working groups, the President and his administration. All branches of authority have to be accountable to the people, and no one has to throw one under their feet for the purpose of populism in order to quietly divide the budget in a closed regime. I urge you to vote in favour of this law. And I urge the government to voluntarily introduce the same regime in its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u178	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. I think everyone can agree with what Yuri Vitaliovich said. Because today we are trying to do everything we can with Parliament to carry out our decision-making, decision-making tasks. And the important thing is that the transparency of our work is completely equal to trust in our work. Therefore, I would like to stress the particular importance of adopting this law and other laws that will allow certain steps to be taken. And I believe that it is the responsibility of every authority to be transparent and effective, thus ensuring the trust of people. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Draft Act 1591 on openness and access to information on the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committees and Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm voting on the basis of 1591, and I'm asking you to vote on the basis, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. Please support as a base [[13:13:23]] For 273 I thank you for the bill, and we're moving on. 1895 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the imposition on the Ukrainian National Deputy for violating the requirements for personal voting) (1895). National MP Lechchenko Sergey Anatoliyovich prepared the draft Law and will report. There's an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure, this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote on the reduced procedure of 1895. I'm announcing a proposal for a reporter, colleagues. [[13:14:18]] For a hundred and Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u179	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! Today we also have a historic bill on the punishment of buttons. Everyone knows that in the Ukrainian Parliament for decades it has been a disgraceful phenomenon, everyone speaking out indignantly, but in any case, many deputies are violating this rule of the Constitution, which obliges them to vote in person. And today, you are looking at a law that imposes sanctions for buttoning. The first penalty is the suspension of 10 plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. Every next one is 20 meetings. I understand that this may even be exciting in some deputies, they may be able to walk legally, but when there's a critical moment, it's going to have a negative impact on the faction's vote. The second penalty is the removal of the head of the committee, the deputy head of the committee, the secretary of the committee. Those buttonheads who lead the committees will be deprived of these positions so as not to disgrace the higher representative body of our nation. The third penalty is an exemption from parliamentary assemblies. When we were all elected to the Supreme Council, I saw these lines standing in order to become members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. Because it's an opportunity for taxpayers to travel abroad. Similarly, a buttoned MP cannot represent Ukraine in an international arena and disgrace Ukraine in inter-parliamentary assemblies. Therefore, it is suggested that these positions be abolished. And the fourth penalty is to take away the wages of those days when the buttoned-out MP was removed from the plenary sessions. I suggest we all vote in favour. The time has come to put a dot in this shameful phenomenon and to become the most exemplary, most progressive body of legislative authority in Post - Soviet space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor. The report is the first deputy head of the Pinzenik Committee. Procedure, colleagues, regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u181	Dear Head, dear colleagues! There's a big request. Take this bill very seriously, make a responsible decision. What are you talking about? Unlike the previous bill, which is relatively, let's say, harmless in terms of its implementation, it's now actually a pretty radical change in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What are you talking about? It is proposed to amend articles 47, 82, 84, 204 of the Rules of the Supreme Council and articles 6 and 40 of the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, it is proposed that the chairman be appointed, not the Head of the Supreme Council, not the Supreme Council, not the Committee of the Supreme Council, but the chairman of the meeting with certain rights. It is proposed that the chairman of the meeting be given the right to order the imposition of an order on national deputies who have violated the requirements for personal voting. In particular, the presiding officer has the right to his personal orders to deprive the national deputies of their participation in 10 or 20 plenary sessions. Next. He has the right to prohibit them from taking office on the committees of the Supreme Council. It's not the Supreme Council that does it, it's the chairman of the meeting. It prohibits shipping payments and prohibits the inclusion of such deputies in parliamentary delegations. Next: The call is carried on to the next call, what does that mean? This means that in the election, voters will choose the national deputies of two classes: the first class with full powers, the second class national deputies who cannot join the committees or lead the committees. All of these strings will follow the MP if he is re-elected. According to the case, it's some kind of criminal punishment analogous to a ban on certain positions, or a certain activity only with regard to the Ukrainian national MPs. So given the social significance of this issue, I am asking the national MPs very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u182	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u183	The committee believes that there is a reason for the draft law to be drafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u184	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Vladimir Ariev, "Peter Prashenko's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the fight against button abuse has been going on for several years, and in principle, we have achieved slowly and slowly, at least what is not being done candidly, and at least social and public condemnation already exists. It's been a long time since we've introduced the "Council" system, which allows only one MP to vote for himself and mechanically, physically avoids opportunities, eliminates the possibility of buttoning, another thing that's been stalling all the time. But there are really good things in this bill, but there are moments that don't fit in with legislation, and you can basically take it as a basis, and you can refine it in the second reading. But I want to focus on another one, and I said, you know, the buttons have been a little beat. But I'm sorry, our Parliament is still a long way from European, even if you look at it right now, I'm asking even broadcasters to show you the Supreme Council Hall, and I haven't seen any European Parliament in the morning and the evening, from the opening of the session and to the closing of it, where everyone goes. He listens to those who speak, those who present the bills, only to an extreme extent a quarter of them. But I'm sorry, it's a tradition of Europe, it's a tradition that must finally be established. Unfortunately, we can't do this legislatively, unfortunately. Because we have MPs who are untouchable, we behave as we please and do as we please. For God's sake, let's vote off the intrusiveness and win 300 votes for it. But at last, be conscious, and act like people as representatives of the people of the European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u186	Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u187	The Self-Help faction suggests that we stop talking and vote. "self-help" for "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u188	That's a nice offer. Stop talking and vote. Please, Labazuk National MP, "The will of the people." I ask you to be concise in your speeches, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u189	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, accuses us of being buttoned-up every day, and indeed this shameful practice continues to be the eighth call of the Supreme Council. Each of us, going to elections, whether it's in major districts or on lists, claimed that there would be no more such practice in this session hall. But unfortunately, it goes on and we see exactly, including those people's deputies who claimed yesterday that they would do anything to stop it. I am the author of the 1744 Bill, which was registered on January 14th, which clearly regulates the operation of the sensory button. The bill that we are currently considering was registered on January 30, 2014. So please tell me why there are alternative bills today and there's a bill that was previously passed by a regulatory committee, supported by, by the way, I want to point out that the regulatory committee has not so far taken up the agenda so that we can look at it in the session room. My bill clearly creates a mechanism that will not be able to vote personally. I'm willing to support my colleagues today, the bill, but I want to stress this bill creates an opportunity to punish those who push the button, but it doesn't create a mechanism just once and for all to put a dot in this session room so that it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, opposition block, Mikhail Papiev. Please be brief, Your Honorable Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u191	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The opposition bloc supports this bill, but I would ask all Ukrainian national deputies to vote on it. That's why, because it's the right idea at all – it's the standard of the Constitution of Ukraine for personal voting. Today, we are not personally voting on Ukrainian national MPs, and it is sad, especially when we see in this outrage that people who bring to society the high ideals of the field and other things that need to be put into practice are caught. That's why, honourable Ukrainian national MPs, this bill needs to be voted on as a basis, but I would very much ask that we be the kind of things that are written in it, where the chairman has the right, you know how this ends. The chairman will have the right to do one thing in another way, in another way, in another way. There should be an imperative norm that the presiding officer, when making a declaration of nonpersonal voting, is automatically obliged to make such a decision and to make such a decision. With regard to the second reading, we should also adjust this with regard to appointment, for each of us is written in a workbook, not the national deputies of Ukraine, just the national deputies. We're committee members, or committee heads, or something else, and we're giving the chairman the right to be removed from this position one by one, when the appointment goes through the Supreme Council vote, we also have to write it down very correctly. And in order for this bill, I'm confident that the Supreme Council will vote for it to be not just a slogan, but today I'm doing an experiment and I'm handing over an application to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a non-personal vote in the adoption of Law 1831, and I'm asking you not to sign this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u192	Thirty seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u193	And I demand a re-voting. The whole video fixation, we have everything. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you, this is the national deputy of Shinkovsky voted yesterday in favour of Bill 1831 and voted in favour of the national deputy of Jurchishin. We have a video fixation. Thank you. I'll pass it on to the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u194	Colleagues, per minute, please. Come on, listen, let's do it, I'll give you literally a few more people in a minute, but let's vote, because we're all good at talking. Please, Olena Shkrum, Alana Shkrum. Then Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u195	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u196	Please. Please be very brief, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u197	It's very concise. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Fellows, let's really speak frankly, despite the fact that we've had almost half of our parliament, despite trying to introduce new rules to the game, we haven't been able to deal with such a shameful phenomenon as buttoning. I can't believe it's still there, unfortunately, in our Parliament. And I, myself, with many colleagues, have, by the way, blocked this high court against such a phenomenon as buttoning, and unfortunately not only from the Opposition Block, but also from my coalition colleagues. So, yes, these sanctions that our colleague is offering are hard. Yes, these sanctions are not only present in Ukraine, they are also present in other parts of the world. Because if sanctions aren't hard enough, we won't be able to just execute and follow this rule. So I don't agree with the regulatory committee's conclusion that sanctions somehow undermine the rights of MPs, because only severe sanctions can work with that. So let's vote for this, let's change the rules of the game, let's show the normal European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u198	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar, then Alexy Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u199	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, it's obvious that buttoning is our common shame. Obviously, this is the rule of the Constitution: one MP -- one mandate, one vote -- that's the way it's supposed to be. But, you know, when we're based on this, Mr Papiev, we're asking you to vote on the laws, because Law 1831 provides for transparency of media property and very displeasing to your patron Levocchin, then, if you'll excuse me, you can sit down, press two buttons -- and then tell us that the law needs to be declared. There are a lot of problems in buttons, colleagues. And one of them is not just the one who pushes, but the one who doesn't go to work. Because we came here to work. But they are buttoned down because the decisions are very right very often cannot be made because we are inconsiderate of our responsibilities. This too must be punished, evidently. There's not supposed to be half of this room. And you just keep your mouth shut, because you know how we vote, and you vote your laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u201	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u202	Remember how you voted "January 16" laws: with your hands and feet. And for that, no one has ever been punished. And that, by the way, is ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, Alexei Hotcharenko. Take your seats and don't shout!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I would like to support this law with two hands from the face of the buttondog society. And even more serious punishment must be made so that no one has even the slightest desire to commit a crime, all the way to criminal punishment. Because the law is the law, and the less buttoned-up people in our society, the better. Therefore, all colleagues, please support and comply with this law as much as possible. This law is fully supported! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u205	From the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u206	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, the faction of the Radical Party will vote in favour of a bill that provides responsibility for a disgraceful phenomenon – the buttoning. At the same time, we believe that sanctions should be extended not only to buttoned-up MPs, but to those MPs who do not come to the Supreme Council Hall during plenary work, to those MPs who do not participate in the Committees of the Supreme Council during committee work. It has to be the same responsibility. For if a person is not at work, whether in school or in hospital or in a business, there is a provision for work laws to be set free. That must be the exact responsibility. He didn't come to the 3 plenary sessions -- to take away the MP's mandate, and then there'll be order, then there'll be discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u207	Yuri Lewchenko I'm asking everyone to take their seats for a minute. Take your seats, dear fellows. Take your seats, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u208	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's a very positive bill, and the last draft is a very positive one, but it's a positive one. Because nothing really changes these things, because I've been listening to all of this, it's total hypocrisy. Every faction of the coalition has the right buttons, there are people who, well, almost every single one of them, I apologize. There are people who don't go to committees, there are people who live, people who don't live up to their capabilities, they go to Mercedes, they say 1,000 dollars. I didn't see anything to get these people expelled from the faction. Why don't you exclude them from the faction of these people, why are you having lunch with them, why are they okay? There must be criminal responsibility for buttoning. For six months now, my bill has been in the Supreme Council. It's a Freedom Project. The Professional Committee on Law Enforcement voted against the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Ten seconds, complete, please. Prepare to vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u210	So let me finish, so if, if you're not hypocritical, if you really want to deal with these shameful phenomena, then you need to take criminal responsibility for buttoning. Five to eight years old, former National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u211	Look, that's what the outsider said. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Now the factions of the coalition, including. Now the factions of the coalition, including their full resolve to fight against buttoning. Please take your seats for the bill, registration number 1895. Please calm down. Very careful, colleagues. It's against buttoning, personal voting. This information will be fully available on the Web site of the Supreme Council. And so, 1895, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to impose a national MP for violating the requirements for personal voting), which was reported by Sergey Lechchenko, and which I put to the vote on the basis. Please, colleagues, vote on the basis. Please support this bill. You can see the words coming together. They all did. [[13:34:28]] For 258. The first - reading draft of the Law was adopted as a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of the law. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On General Compulsory State Pension Insurance" (for the Reduction of the Pension Age and Improvement of Other Conditions of Retirement). 1031-1, 1031-2, 1031-3. There is a proposal to consider these draft laws by a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. [[13:35:15]] For 175 Decision taken. Please, 1031. National MP Sergei Mishchenko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u212	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Finally, eight months after this Parliament is in operation, we have come up with bills that cancel the pension reform. Someone called it shameful in the past, someone called it dragonnic, someone called it the genocide of our pensioners. But the promises that each of those present have made to their constituents, especially those who have approached every single person in their district, have been said that when we go to this Parliament, we will cancel this pension reform. First of all, I want to remind you of what's going on, and this is the pension reform of the Party of Regions and Tihypak. The main thing is to return to our women of retirement age 55, other novels that were then introduced and passed. Unfortunately, there were two votes in favour of my law in the past, 224 votes in favour. Now eight months from now, we're putting these bills together. It doesn't matter who wrote it, it doesn't matter who wrote it. What's important now is that everyone consciously thinks about when they go to their district, when they meet with voters, how they promised two things in the past, is to sign an association with the European Union and cancel the pension reform. There's something I don't see these votes of authority for today. So pension reform, I see, nobody wants to cancel. The tariffs, the dragon tariffs, lead to poverty. Pensions, wages don't index. And the question is, did you plant them in the dust?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u213	Please, Vladimir Bandurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u214	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, a respected colleague, today has three prerequisites for the 2011 pension reform. First, to date, life expectancy in Ukraine is one of the shortest in Europe. Unfortunately, Ukraine has 156 places to live. The second preconceived. Today, there is a critical situation with jobs in Ukraine. This is especially felt by pre - retirement women today, especially in rural areas. And MEPs are familiar with this problem. And the third. To date, the pension reform that took place in 2011 did not have the positive financial effect that everyone was counting on. We have today the pension deficit: in 2012 it was 27 billion dollars, in 2013 it was 22 billion dollars, in 2014-17. And this year's estimate is 19 billion dollars. Dear colleagues, there are nearly 200 members of the majors who have passed through the districts. My colleague, Sergei Mishchenko, spoke about the fact that each of us made promises, each of us looked into the eyes of those women who had continued their work. All over the world, the rise in retirement age, that's the victory of a working woman, that's the gain. Unfortunately, we did the opposite. Unfortunately, the politicians defeated Ukrainian women in 2011. So it's about restoring justice, it's about giving women a decent job until they're 55 years old, and then letting them rest. There's already been one attempt. We were consolidated around the law of our colleague Shuhevich, and 256 votes were raised. I also suggest that all colleagues vote now and adopt this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u215	Please, National Deputy Valentin Nichiporenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that in this room today, the abolition of pension reform, which is the main thing, a return to 55-year-old women may say that these are populist laws. Some may say so. On the committee, I said, I don't have this law, I voted in favour of it in the previous summons, although I was in the majority, but I had a position, so now I've passed it. Once again, it's not a very large number of people: women 55 or 60, but it's, well, a million women, no more. Where can I get the money? You know, we don't live like this because we spend a lot of money, but because we don't make enough money, and because we're still being stolen. Therefore, the government must find money, and we must exercise political will, not to fulfill our promises, but to fulfill our obligations to the electorate. I'm not going to convince you right now, you know the numbers, you know, I just want to go to the MPs of the previous call who voted in favour of abolishing the pension reform. I voted with you then, please show political will to the leaders of the political forces – show political will! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u217	Please, head of the Committee on Social Policy, Druuk Sergey Evseyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! On December 24, 2014 and February 4, 2015, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment, and Pensions reviewed bills in numbers: 1031-1, 1031-2 and 1031-3. The bills are proposed to amend article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, with the provision of pensions at the age of 60 and 55 for women, provided there are at least 15 years of age. The Pension Fund of Ukraine noted that the adoption of a legislative decision to improve the pension of persons should ensure a balance between the financial capacity of the Pension Fund, implement appropriate standards and at the same time ensure social justice in pension insurance. Contrary to the requirements of part one of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code and part of part three of article 91 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, no financial and economic justification has been given for the costs of pension insurance as a result of its adoption, as well as proposals to cover these expenses. According to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the additional costs to be reimbursed from the State budget will be: Law 30. Law 3031 - 30 billion dollars, Law 1031 - 12 billion dollars, Law 1031 - 18 billion dollars. The main scientific and expert office does not support the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Budgetary Questions does not support it either. The Social Policy Committee at its meeting decided to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u219	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u220	31-1 and 1031-1. As for Bill 1031-3, the committee was not defined. Therefore, we suggest that we set up a meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u221	Two for, two for against, please. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u222	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The Radical Party faction, even when I was one of our party in the past Parliament and today in its entirety, we always support all social initiatives aimed at raising the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. Reforms should not be carried out by tightening traps on the necks, by crowding people, but by detining the economy, by creating jobs. And today, unfortunately, Ukrainian women and men in their 55 ’ s are unable to find a job, and a paradox is emerging when they have not earned a pension, retired, and received a penny. That's why we insist that the disgraceful pension of Janukovitch's gang be abolished, the pension reform under Tihypak's authority, and that our women be allowed to retire at 55 years of age for their respective employment. We demand that the government immediately submit a bill on wage-indexing to the budget and pensioners. Today, people are living in extreme poverty, and today, savings are undervalued as a result of the disgraceful policies of the National Bank! That's why the faction of the Radical Party, the only woman in Ukraine that we don't support, is the Head of the National Bank of Honduras! And we demand her retirement, and at the age of 70, let her retire, and spend 900 dollars of her pension to understand how normal, simple people live, women! That's why we're demanding the resignation of the Potters; we're demanding the resignation of those government officials who are pursuing the wrong economic policy; we think that the only policy that should be is the policy of creating jobs; it's the policy of providing people with jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u223	Abdullin. Sergey Sobolev. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, this is the most difficult law we will consider. Because in this part, there are people from the Opposition Block who have created this problem for millions of Ukrainian women and for the country as a whole. Tihypko, Azarov, Yanukovic are the very people and each of the deputies who then joined the Party of Regions, who are now in separate groups, who voted without having any economic justification for the law that sent a woman to retirement at 60 years of age without even being allowed to work. It's a law that requires extra retirement for women when they can't earn it. This is a law that actually destroys the pension system itself and the best confirmation of that is that the Pension Fund has not at all gotten any way out of the situation where the actual deficit of the Pension Fund, after the adoption of this decision, has collapsed definitively. That is why our session hall has already voted in favour of such a bill. These are four bills, you know, on the one hand, I understand Mr. Mishchenk, who did not vote in favour of this law in his previous summons. But, excuse me, what can you do to other authors who beat themselves in the chest here who have driven the situation into a dead end? I think that we must now support the idea itself, but further, in order not to overthrow this law, we need to create, under one law, a single working group that would make a financial statement together with the government, and continue on the second reading, along with financial justification, so that once again we don't have to blow your head off, put it into the hall. Because the same story with 15 percent of the pensioners sitting there, there's not enough people here who voted for it, and now they've counted and understood, 98 million will get the budget from this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u225	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u226	That's the cost of a law that now casts in the shadow of a salary that forces people to quit their jobs and look for shadowy incomes. That's why our faction will no doubt support this, but immediately create a working group and produce a single, agreed-on project with financial grounds for voting in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u227	Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! I think in this principled question we have to talk about a systemic approach and I'm a proponent of not just talking about retirement age, we talked first of all about the principles of counting the most important pension people get. We keep thinking about the Soviet approach, as you know, we don't have enough to pay at work, but you're going to retire early. This Soviet approach needs to be completed, we need to talk about what we need to do to ensure that people have a fair pension, and this pension is necessary, enough for a normal life. So my approach is that the issue of pension reform is a matter of government and coalition. Without a government, we can't solve this issue because we have to understand, and what will be the number of pensions? How will it be calculated not only the indexation, which, of course, should not be from December 1st, but already the indexation of pensions, but how many people will receive this pension? So my proposal and I support the idea and colleague Sergei Soboljeva, who says that we have preserved the idea, but the joint working group has made a common, correct, fair approach to pension reform that would take into account both age and accounting principles, and the sum, most important, for pensioners. And in the end, our previous euphoric discussion about how we will open the work of the Supreme Council. I'm glad, of course, that we have a bill that's being passed on because I've been with my colleague Heratchenko and Olena Kondratjuk for almost a year now, and we've passed a bill on the online transmissions of committees and on-line transmissions to the government. I wish all the bills were out. And the most important thing I want to ask, Vladimir Borisovich, is that I know a lot of people who have already become millionaires by taking the grant money for the openness of the Supreme Council. Set up a normal Wi-Fi, because the Internet is working badly, so much money has been made so that we can at least work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u229	That's exactly what we're working on, Mikola Volodymyrovich, with no money to make a normal Wi-Fi. Dear colleagues! Andrew Shipko, rebirth party, rebirth party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u230	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk Region Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Well, it seems strange that the elderly don't need our government at all. As many drafts as were adopted in this call, Ukraine has never seen one. The government is constantly saving on the underprivileged and our pensioners. Now you have to ask the wrong question. Where to take money, how to protect people, how to protect women. Because there is no pressure on a woman like ours in the world. Not only should a woman be taken care of on March 8th, because she and her mother, she also raises the family, raises the children, works on production, but not on her anymore – let's add 5 years to her pension. Dear colleagues, you don't have to look at it. Vladimir Borisovich, if you vote, we will support these bills with two hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, these series of bills that have been drafted, according to the committees, are the conclusions of each of these bills. So now you're going to be defined by voting. But obviously what you have to find is a consistent version of this. Please, who didn't participate in the discussion is a minute. "The Opposition Block," please, Queen. From factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u232	Give me your word. Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! I want to say that we have a chance with you today, and there is an opportunity to correct not only the previous authority that has adopted the pension reform, but also to correct the mistakes of the existing Government and the current authority. Because today we are obliged not only to give women 55 years of age back, but we are obliged to index pensions and salaries, we are obliged to abolish the pension tax and we are obliged to restore the rights of working retirees. Therefore, the Opposition Unit, of course, will support these legislative initiatives. And we propose to the second reading to expand the articles and to make a single comprehensive bill that will restore a just pension in our country today. We believe this and ask you today to support these bills and abolish the pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u233	Thank you, Your Honor. Sergey Capplin, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u234	Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to ask you to have the technical services check out my workplace, because I can't sign up for a month for a statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that this is a crime against Sergey Kaplin, a representative of the common people, a representative of the trade unions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. I'd like to go to the Opposition Block. You have to write a statement to answer to the police for the crimes committed by the founding members of the bloc during the last 10, 5 years. Third. Everyone asks where to get the money for our pensioners. Tomorrow, when we vote on the key social laws and the simple citizens get the indexation, we vote on the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, we create commissions -- and I bring you criminals here, I'll pay you back tens of billions of dollars, robbed by the criminal government of today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u235	My colleagues, as I understand it, we have, look, we have 1031-1, 1031-2 -- these are two laws that are rejected by the committees, there are decisions. Under the third law, there is a decision to determine the bill by voting. There are a number of positions that need to be made in individual working groups, with the government to count everything, and to do a good-looking bill. So it would probably be appropriate not to make a final decision right now, but to deal with it properly in factions. groups, together with trade unions, together with the government, to make technical and economic justifications -- and then to do so. What's more, it completely coincides with yesterday's meeting I had with the faction leaders and groups of parliament with the trade unions. So I think it needs more discussion than it does right now. Colleagues, but, nevertheless, I have to put this question to a vote. 1031-1 to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:58:17]] For-162 The decision is not taken. 1031-2. 1031-2. [[13:58:46]] For-157. The decision is not taken. 1031-3 [[13:59:09]] For 171 Dear colleagues, it is obvious that there is a very wise offer to sit down and devise this decision in a balanced manner. Come on, fellows, let's move. Dear colleagues, we have, see, a draft of Law 1266, developed by the National Deputy Shipko. Draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Employment Act. Please, 1266, there is an offer by the author of a reduced procedure. There are still several regulations and several important social issues that need to be included in the agenda. I'm going to keep working for 15 minutes. Please. With regard to the consideration of Law Shippe 1266 by a reduced procedure, please support. As far as the procedure is concerned, please support me, colleagues. [[14:00:07]] For-151 Decision taken. Report. Listen carefully, a short law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u236	Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Group, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district. Dear colleagues, this bill is very simple and understandable, it only changes one word, we change the word "children" in plural to the word "children." And that would be fair, because the people who have children under six years of age could not use this bill that we passed with you two years ago. This bill is written by the people in general because my electorate, particularly in Nicaragua, was the elector Yuri Vinec, who became a hostage of only one word. I'm asking you to support this bill, because if there's one child in the family, he couldn't use this law, his legal right to work. Dear colleagues, this law does not require additional funding from the state budget. This law has been given a positive assessment by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy recommends that it be accepted at all. One word changes. One word changes. And the committee supports the adoption as a basis and as a whole. And I'm asking you all to take this as a foundation and as a whole. One word, and thousands of our parents, thousands of families will be satisfied with national justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-17-m0.u237	Colleagues, prepare for the vote. Registration number 1266. The bill that the author just announced. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'll bet you a vote. a committee to adopt this bill. You've seen, absolutely simple, just a word. On the basis and in general. Colleagues, please prepare. It's a question of children. Ready to vote, my friends? Please, on the basis and in general, vote. It's a very simple law. Please vote on the basis as a whole. 1266. [[14:02:26]] For 244 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Dear colleagues, we have two decrees. The first Order that we included in the agenda is the 95th anniversary of John Mikitovich Kožeduba's birth. And the second decision is a draft decree on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Igor Svěšnikov, also submitted for consideration by the People's Dechtirczuk. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that we now consider this determination. The 100 years of October 19 have been fulfilled since the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian archaeologist, Dr. So there's the next offer, dear friends. So that we can have 2693 of the Order on the 95th anniversary of John Mikitovich Kožeduba voted now as a basis and as a whole. Is there a need to report? Andrey the Reaper has prepared. Please prepare, please. Please prepare, please. 2693, 95. Please vote for the 95th anniversary of John Mikitovich Kožeduba. Let's support, in general, June 8th, the celebration of this year, colleagues. [[14:04:08]] For 229 Decision taken. And the Order (registration number 2645), the bill "On the 100th anniversary of the birth of Igor Svečnikov", I read it to you. There is an offer to include it now in the consideration of making a decision, this decision. We will continue to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Okay? Please, Your Honor, 2645 on the celebration of the 100th birthday for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making accordingly. Please vote. As far as inclusion is concerned, the Berestic battle, yes. [[14:04:52]] For 231 And in general, I'm putting 2645 to the vote, according to our decision to include it in the agenda. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please vote 2645 in general, please support. [[14:05:15]] For 231 Thank you. Dear colleagues! I got it. 231, decision taken. I received a call from the leaders of the coalition factions, according to a meeting of the leaders of factions and groups, as well as representatives of the trade unions, to consider the following bills, i.e. the inclusion of them in the agenda of the daily session: 2835 - the reduction of the wage for gas, 2832 - the ordering of tariffs, 2682 - the abolition of the VAT on pension, and 2676 - the automatic charging of subsidies. The signatures of the five faction leaders Timoshenko, Lucenko, Berezuk and Oleg Lazko, four factions. And the next. Integrating more draft laws into the agenda: Registration No. 2698 – Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (renewal of the full amount of pension insurance for working pensioners), 2883 on the indexation of citizens’ monetary income and 2245 on the provision of social services. And here are the signatures of the representative of the People's Front, Burbak; the Radical Party of Laška Chižmar, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, Father's Day; Kurilo, the Block of Petra Prashenko and Vojcicka, the Self-Help Union. Therefore, it is in harmony with that reference. In line with the appeal that came, I will now put to the vote to the agenda of the day session: 2835, 2832, 2682 and 2676, signed by Timoshenko, Lucenko. Berezuk and Lazko. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please include the four signatures of the faction and coalition in the agenda. Please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[14:08:15]] For a hundred and The decision did not come to a vote. Next thing you know, Burbak "The People's Front", Chižmar Radical Party, Kirilenko "The Fathers", Kurilo "Block of Petra Poshenka" and Vojcitski union "The Self-Help", the bill itself (registration number 2698, 2883 and 2245) are all factions of the coalition. 2698 turned me on. 2883 turned me on. 2245. 2245, signed by five factions. 2245 questions concern children’s recreation. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleague, session 2245. These are the five signatures of coalition factions. Please identify yourself. Please vote. [[14:09:16]] For 214 I didn't get the votes either. Colleagues, the Decision (Registration No. 2680) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preservation in Ukraine of the identity and cultural heritage of Crimean Karaites (karays) and Crimeans, prepared by the national deputy of Logwinsky. There is a proposal to consider the reduced procedure of the decision. Please vote on the summary procedure. Is there an immediate proposal to vote for the basis as a whole? Is there no objection? Please concentrate on 2680 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application to preserve Ukraine's identity and cultural heritage of Crimean Karaites (karays) and Crimean. The profile committee proposes to take as a basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general. [[14:10:19]] For 219 Colleagues, concentrate, please, on your return to this decision. Mobilize, please, colleagues. Mobilize, please. Let's get back to 2680. Three minutes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Prepare to vote, my friends. 2680 is the last Order of the Day today. Come on, colleagues, 2680. Ready to vote? Back to 2680. Please support the return to 2680, please. For the return to consideration of 2680. [[14:11:12]] For 221 Colleagues, well, no votes. I think we'll move on tomorrow. And one more thing. Tomorrow we will include in the agenda those bills that were not included, more specifically, not voted yesterday, where I think eight bills remain, they will be included on the fourth. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session is closed. Tomorrow morning's meeting, we start at 10 a.m. Thank you.
