ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come into the hall and take your seats. And before we start the registration and get to the agenda, I want to inform you that there was a statement yesterday. I think it's the right thing to do, leader of Zacharychenk's fighters, to be able to conduct a fair-to-fake assault on occupied territory. Yesterday was the President's response to such statements. And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should also respond in an appropriate way to this argument about the inadmissibility of any election under a machine gun. There is a need for Russia to comply with all requirements related to the implementation of the Minsk Protocol. Since Ukraine and the world’s partners emphasize that they have fulfilled all the necessary points of the Minsk Accords, there must be a clear position. Clearly, such a position can deepen military opposition, which is unacceptable. Thus, the proper response should be strong enough and principled enough. I had the European Integration Committee prepare yesterday a joint statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such a statement has already been prepared and is now being considered by the committee. And I think we might be able to look at it first today, of course, because it needs to be discussed, and then we'd move on to the agenda. About the order of the day. It is extremely important today. And I would like to stress that it is very important for Ukraine to adhere to all the commitments made, to be a reliable partner in the world, and to carry out a social contract with Ukrainian citizens without letup. And today, there's a package of financial and economic laws that will allow decisions to be made and social standards raised by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think, and I'm counting on us to be completely apolitical, and our policy is to support every Ukrainian, and we're going to put aside political ambitions, and we're going to unite around the development of our country, and we're not going to stick to wheels and so hard to ride. And brief information, colleagues, after yesterday. We ratified five international agreements with you yesterday, the key of which is the International Labour Organization Convention on Fundamental Objectives and Norms of Social Policy. Denunciation of an international agreement with Russia, a queued one, accepted a call to the UN on the occasion of the '70s, you remember that. Now, about the daytime issues that I just talked about. We have a question of restructuring. You know that the cooperation program with the International Monetary Fund provides $17.5 billion in support to Ukraine, and even that amount does not allow government debt to be serviced. So it's very important that we look at the whole package of laws today. There are no exceptions, they work either together, or we realize that it's very difficult to make these responsible decisions separately because we don't have the resources to raise social standards. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Take your seats, we'll register now. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system and register. [[10:08:28]] 302 national deputies registered for the moment in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, on September 16, 2015, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputies. Colleagues, attention, please! The Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the election of Ukrainian National Deputies on October 26, 2014, Sverka Grigorija Aronović and Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymirovic, who were included in the election list of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Sverke Grigori Aronovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Gregory Aronovich, I invite you to the rostrum to make an oath. Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u3	We welcome our colleague officially to the post of National Deputy of Ukraine. We wish you success in your work. Please invite me to take an oath to the rostrum of the Ukrainian national deputy Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladislav Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u5	Welcome, dear fellow, with your office and your wish for success. And also, Your Honor, I would like to inform you that the national deputies who have just taken an oath have written an application for membership in the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenko", "Solidarity" and have also personally joined the coalition in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I have received a call from two factions, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the faction of the Radical Party. Who's second signature? Self-help. And the Self-Help factions are asking to announce a 15-minute recess. At the same time, however, they are asked not to announce the break but to be given the opportunity to make a three - minute speech. Did I get it right? Please, Julia Timoshenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the Head of the Supreme Council and all the national deputies with such a question. Today, three draft documents will be considered: two bills and one draft Supreme Council regulation, which will essentially approve and give the way to restructuring Ukraine's debts to external creditors. I would like to point out that this issue does not concern just this Parliament and not just this period of history. The documents that we are invited to accept today relate to future generations, at least for 40 years, as provided for in the documents that we are offered. This means that we are going to make a decision today, which is the debt burden that we're going to take, not just now, but what we're going to leave to our children, but partly to some of our grandchildren. That's why I'm offering it. In no case will these bills be allowed to be reviewed by a reduced procedure, as well as by a draft decree. Such decisions for the country must not only be discussed on letters and comas, they must certainly be understandable to the community and the decisions that are made, they are so responsible that they are on the verge of being taken by just no one in this room. And that's why I would ask, on behalf of our faction, and I think, on behalf of Self-Help, the head of the faction will also act so that we can apply the full procedure to Bills 3058/O, 3057/O, 3059/O and draft Decree 3056/O. Here we consider the history of Ukraine, the chance of its life, and the responsibility of everyone for the decisions made. Please, as a matter of fact. And I give the word to the leader of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, you and I have been having a hard time discussing every question, every letter, sometimes after that discussion, with water and a child, it happens a lot. For three days, the Self-Help faction, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Prime Minister, with our colleagues, and before the first night with the President of Ukraine, the whole faction discussed the most important issues of our country. We do. By half one. So today we support this proposal so that there will be a public discussion in this room, and then we will decide what to do. Why this public discussion? The people in this country who are our owners, the customers of our work, should simply know and have information. And you don't have to be afraid of people. That is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u8	As I said, my fellow nationals, we have the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Member States and institutions of the European Union, the United States of America, Australia, Canada, Japan and other states of the world and international organizations for the purpose of holding illegal elections in individual areas of Donbas. I've prepared this statement, this is a request from the European Integration Committee. Irina Heratschenko was concerned about this. And there's a need now to put it in the agenda as a statement, to consider, so that we can react quickly as the Ukrainian Parliament. If you have no objection, the committee has considered this application, I will now put it to the vote, the inclusion in the agenda and the acceptance of the application. We will continue to consider this issue first in the daytime. No objections, colleagues? None. Thank you. I would like you all to prepare, please, your respectable colleagues. There is a proposal for a profile committee to include a request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of holding illegal elections in individual areas of Donbas. Please support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session and the decision-making process. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please support this proposal: include this in the agenda of the day session and now consider this application. Please, we're voting, colleagues. Attention! Prepare for the vote, please, Your Honor! Let's vote, colleagues, on the application. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of this application and the decision-making process. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Colleagues, I beg you to be more careful! [[10:19:00]] For the 220. Well, almost. Colleagues, take your seats, please, dear friends. Prepared? This is about the inclusion in the agenda of the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer the Member States and institutions of the European Union and the world to the intentions of holding illegal elections in Donbas. Please vote. Please support inclusion and consideration. Let's vote, colleagues. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful, please. [[10:19:43]] For 221 Friends, 221. Not all deputies have taken their seats yet. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. You're ready, aren't you? Now we're going to put Irina Heratchenko in the agenda. One minute, Irina Heratschenko. Please, MPs, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I would like to address you and say that the statements of the Supreme Council that we make to our international colleagues are, as always, important. The last such statement was also voted on and supported by the Ukrainian Parliament to the European Parliament on the strengthening of sanctions against the Russian Federation and on the appeal for the release of prisoners, such as the Savachenko Hope, which was adopted by the European Parliament in September of this year, and the statement of the Supreme Council was equally significant. Now the Committee on European Integration, and this has been supported by many of our colleagues from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have taken the initiative to appeal to the world accordingly to pressure the Russian Federation to implement the Minsk Agreements so that they can be implemented by the end of 2015. And to condemn the fact that today the Russian Federation is essentially the initiator of these illegal elections, which are trying to run in separate areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk Republic and tear down the mine process that could lead to an escalation of the conflict. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u10	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Colleagues, well, I think everyone understands that this is an important statement. People's deputies, please take your seats. 3123 Draft Decree on the purpose of holding illegal elections in individual areas of Donbas. Please vote and please support, colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda and due consideration and decision-making. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Be careful, colleagues, please. [[10:21:59]] For 236 By factions, please: "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 112, "National Front" – 65, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 17, Party of Laška – 0, "Fathership" – 14, "Party of Rebirth" – 8, "Will of the People" – 0, non-fractional – 20. Please, Your Honor, there is an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, this provision. Please vote, support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. This is a review of the reduced procedure. [[10:22:42]] For-189 Thank you. Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please report to Irina Heratchenko for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to address those who criticize the Minsk Accords here. Both the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government are very clear about the fact that the Minsk Accords are not actually being implemented by one side is the Russian Federation and its supporters. But the Minsk Accords are working on this, because today we have a very serious anti-putinian coalition in the world, and we have to make every effort to increase the pressure against the aggressor country. And that is what our appeal, supported, is for which I am very grateful, quickly, to colleagues from the Committee on European Integration and part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the partner states, the democratic states of the world and the international organizations for the purpose of holding illegal elections in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of legislative authority, advocates the holding of free democratic and transparent elections of local authorities in selected areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which are to take place only in accordance with the applicable Ukrainian legislation and in accordance with the standards of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. This is one of the key conditions for a peaceful settlement in the Minsk Accords package. In order to implement the agreements reached by the representatives of Ukraine, the Russian Federation and the OSCE, a number of measures have been taken by the Parliament of Ukraine, including the Ukrainian Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region, supported by the draft Ukrainian Law on Change to the Constitution (on Decentralisation) in the first reading. In this connection, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is outraged by reports of the provocative intentions of the Kremlin puppets to hold pseudobials in separate areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine on October 18 and November 1, 2015. Such an electoral farce does not correspond to any Ukrainian legislation or to the OSCE's universal democratic standards and is a conscious step towards breaking the peace process. We are reminded that the similar decision and the continuation of the pseudo-bores in individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk on November 2, 2014 had a significant impact on the Minsk Accords and led to an escalation of the conflict on Donbassa. Honest and democratic elections to local self - government, self - government in Donetsk and Lugansk are impossible under machine guns. The free will of Ukrainian citizens, who are now in a temporarily occupied territory, is possible only if elections are held in safe conditions, without any external pressure, in clear compliance with Ukrainian legislation, and in accordance with standards and under appropriate monitoring by the OSCE. Neither does Russia nor the militants show any progress in the context of the implementation of other paragraphs of the Minsk Accords package. Especially when it comes to taking heavy weapons away from the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u13	In particular, these are very important fixations, respected colleagues. With regard to the withdrawal of heavy weapons from the collision line, the provision by the special monitoring mission of the OSCE of both verification of the process and monitoring of the territory of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the uncontrolled government of Ukraine of the state border area, the exchange of hostages and the restoration of Ukraine of control over the area of the joint border with the Russian Federation. Taking into account the unconditional and unlimited influence the Russian Federation has on its controlling fighters, Moscow’s lack of constructive action demonstrates a conscious disregard for the Kremlin’s commitments. It seems to me that by inciting the holding of pseudo-borders, Moscow is deliberately marginalizing certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine, turning them into a black hole of irresponsibility and chaos. Ukraine has fulfilled its obligations under the Minsk Accords. A successful peace settlement depends solely on the ability, desire and willingness of official Moscow to effectively implement its part of the commitment. The Supreme Council of Ukraine strongly supports international efforts, mainly by the European Union, the OSCE, the United States of America, Australia, Canada, Japan and other democratic states of the world, aimed at settling the situation in the east of Ukraine. But in light of the opening of the work of the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, special attention is being paid to Russia's presumptuous actions and its supported fighters. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the Security Council of the United Nations and the Council of the European Union to expedite its consideration of the appeal by the Ukrainian Parliament on behalf of Ukraine on March 17, 2015 regarding the deployment of an international peace and security operation in Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers possible pseudo-bombs in individual areas of Donbas to be the limit Russia has no right to cross. In this connection, the Ukrainian Parliament calls on the international community to intensify all pressure on the Russian Federation in order to avoid the collapse of the Minsk Accords. Please support, Your Honor, the day before the session of the UN General Assembly, which will take place in New York by the end of September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u14	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, another important observation. Indeed, we have prepared this text literally this night and in the morning, and you have another text. But you can see that what I just did is he has more stringent nominations with regard to the Russian Federation. And this is what I read in exchange for the text that we prepared with our additions made by our colleagues from the Committees of European Integration and Foreign Affairs. And just technically, our department couldn't get this text out to you. I've read the text that we're proposing to reconcile, and it's tougher. Here, first of all, there are positions that are clear about turning to the international community and a more rigorous assessment of Moscow's actions and its puppets, which today are trying to stage pseudo-bombs and tear it apart. I'm sorry that technically we haven't been able to distribute this option. Thank you. Let's do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u16	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please sign up: two for, two against. In fact, there was the basic text, then there was the work on the committee, and now you've heard the question in the version of the committee, where all the factions come out, they've looked at it perfectly. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Robert Horvath, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u17	The faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u18	Thank you. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u19	Thank you. In principle, there is no doubt that the actions of terrorist groups in Donbassa, their intent to hold elections, the so - called elections, must be condemned. So in this part, you can support the initiative. Since I am not referring to the part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that was agreed to by this decision, I consider it necessary to make a proposal to delete the first sentence of paragraph three, which states that the Minsk Accords remain an internationally recognized diplomatic settlement plan. Please put it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u20	Thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable national MPs, a year has passed since President Poroshenko, under pressure from Russia and the leaders of Germany and France, came to Minsk on a disgraceful course of action by the Russian aggressor. It is now clear to everyone that despite all the expectations of our European partners, President Prashenko and parts of Ukrainian citizens, the Minsk Accords have not brought peace or return to the occupied part of Donbas. Instead, the path led to anti - Ukrainian betrayal in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the previous adoption of the changes in road to the Constitution, the collapse of the pro-European coalition in parliament, the rift in Ukrainian society and the new bloodshed of Ukrainians in Kiev. The Radical Party faction demands a firm rejection of the Minsk Accords as illegal, unconstitutional, and legally worthless in view of international law. This stillborn child of the infamous peace -making policy of the aggressor offers no prospect of achieving lasting peace. Instead, Minsk is a symbol of the geopolitical collapse of the West and the fiasco of the entire European security policy of the early 21st century. As Munich marked the collapse of European security policies during the interwar period of the last century. We claim that the international alternative to the Minsk Treaty is, and it is obvious to all honest and sober people -- this is the Budapest Memorandum of Security Safeguards given to Ukraine by all the nuclear-weapon States, the permanent members of the UN Security Council, in exchange for our refusal of the third nuclear arsenal in the world. We demand a radical increase in Ukraine's international negotiating positions by involving all the guarantor countries in the Budapest Memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u22	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u23	The faction of the Opposition Block categorically insists on the implementation of the Minsk Accords, unlike the previous speaker, since we see no other alternative to the peace settlement of the Donbassa process. At the same time, we are outraged by the double standards that exist in this room. Why is it not, for example, that you have actually deprived one and a half million internally displaced persons of participating in local elections? Why there is no evidence in this appeal that the Central Electoral Commission, on the basis of the subjective opinion of the military-civil administrations, adopted Decrees 207 and 208 of 29 August this year concerning the non-election of certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. In fact, you have deprived 350,000 citizens of the Donetsk Region of participating in local elections, 150,000 citizens in the Lugansk region and participating in local elections. Why is that not the case? Or are they no longer citizens of Ukraine, or do we need to ensure the realization of the constitutional right to participate in local elections and vote for any political power that pleases them? Why is it not, for example, that power allows itself subjectively not to register some opposition forces in order to participate in local councils? Regrettably, there are no answers to these questions. The authorities only address matters of interest to them. You see, they're holding elections there. So you can't even hold elections in the control territories of Donetsk and Lugansk. Consciously, the situation is that the elections will not be held there, but that the authority will be exercised by the local officials appointed by Kiev by the military-civil administrations, which will be both the judge and the prosecutor and the local council. Look out! You have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u24	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Please, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hanna Hopko. Let us be united in this statement, and we do not start shouting empty slogans. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This is a very important international statement that the Ukrainian Parliament has to make. But please add the following phrase in the fourth paragraph: "The issue of the release of political prisoners of Hope Savechenko, Oleg Sentsov, Ahtem Chigoza, Ali Asanova, Mustafa Degermengji, Ruslan Zeitulayev, Nuri Prymov, Rustem Vaitov and Ferat Saifuljeva has not been resolved." And add the Santa Claus and the others. Please add these prisoners to the list so that they can be released. Yeah, Carpuk and Cliche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Please, on the basis of two committees, let's now make those proposals that have been announced, generalize, make new texts, print, distribute to MPs. And today we're going to endorse this question so that everyone understands this statement in essence. Is there no objection? Please, just a minute, Rephat Chubarov, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, those who will work on the final drafting of the statement, I ask you very much that the text should say that we demand the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, including Crimea, in accordance with the General Assembly resolution. The question of restoring territorial integrity must be present in any statement that is dedicated to Russian. Or Ukrainian-Russian relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I ask you to offer Irina Heratchenko and Hanni Hopko. Generalize the Device of Assignment, please, if you are willing to print, distribute to the MPs. After we get to know him, we'll just vote for him today. Thank you for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Important issues of the day’s order. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome Arsenius Petrovich. Very important questions. And members of the government. Very important questions. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and take their seats. And we're going to look at this question. Please enter your seats, distinguished national MPs. I'd like to invite you, Mr. President of Ukraine, Mr. Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u29	I would like to thank you, Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs of Ukraine, for your opportunity to address you, as today we have a very important day for our country. It's a big day because the Ukrainian Parliament is going to be looking at debt restructuring, debt cancellation, which is not this government, and not this parliament, but it is our destiny that has been responsible for stabilizing the country's financial situation, raising social standards, bringing Ukraine back to the path of growth and saving debts that have been borne by previous governments. But this government, with an entrepreneur of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I hope will write down these debts and allow the Ukrainian economy to grow further and the Ukrainians to receive a decent salary and have the opportunity to continue to create economic foundations for the country's growth. First of all, I would like to brief you on the terms of the restructuring and cancellation of the debts that have been achieved and that you will approve today. The point is that, after long negotiations over almost six months, we were able to get the creditors' consent to a 20 percent write-off of Ukraine's debts to private creditors. It's about writing down $3.6 billion today, and it's about an additional economy and actual write-off of interest that we're supposed to pay by 2040, about $5.3 billion. A separate decision has been made to defer payment of the body’s debt, with a total of $11 billion for a further 4 years. So in the next four years, Ukraine will not pay off the body of credit. We are asking that this package, which the Ukrainian government has discussed with our creditors, is brought to every member of Parliament in the very open procedure. We call on Parliament to ensure that the procedure for dealing with this issue is not disguised as the previous different types of agreements signed by previous governments, and that the people of Ukraine specifically know the answers to all the questions about the Restructuring Agreement, I stress, to all. This covenant is approved by all the world’s societies. This agreement is directly supported by our main creditor and investor, the International Monetary Fund. This covenant is supported by all the governments of the Great Seven Countries. This agreement is not only supported by one country, it is the Russian Federation. That is why the Russian Federation, as the sole creditor, refused to participate in the Credit Committee and did not accept the terms accepted by other creditors. Russia demands payment of all its debts. From this rostrum, I'm going to say the best conditions for Russia are not going to be: either you accept these terms, or the other terms of the Russian Federation will not get. We invite members of Parliament to have an open, public discussion, and on any question that is in the deputies of any factions, we will give clear answers. This is about the future of the country. This is one of the most important and serious financial agreements in the country’s history. Voting for this package means voting for the country's economic growth, for the influx of foreign investments, for the creation of new jobs and for the increase in salaries, pensions and social standards, as after the vote on restructuring and cancellation of debts in the daily parliament today, the decision on the average of 13 per cent and the increase in salaries, for example for highly qualified workers, as teachers and doctors, is 19 per cent. Voting for restructuring and debt cancellation gives the country additional financial resources, allowing the country to continue its economic reforms. Not voting for this package means actually declaring a default or not voting for this package means that Ukrainian citizens will not be able to raise social benefits, standards, pensions and wages. Convinced that we will make the right decision today. And in order for this state decision to be taken, I ask the Head of Parliament and Members of Parliament to proceed to the consideration of the question of full procedure to answer any questions you have. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. 3058. I think there's a common position about that. Although the committees have decided on a reduced procedure, each law will be viewed on the move. 3058, 3057, 3059, 3056 and 3660 and 3660-1. 3058, Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (restructuring the state and State-guaranteed debt and its partial write-off). Ukraine’s Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko will report. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u31	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I'll tell you a little bit about it, and then I'll go to the first law. Today, you have very important laws for the lives of every Ukrainian, financial and banking system, national currency, and the future of our country. Early this year, the situation in the country deteriorated significantly as a result of external aggression, leading to a deepening economic crisis. Ukraine has agreed on a stability plan with all international partners, which includes strong financial support from the International Monetary Fund, the Great Seven, international financial organisations and the EU, totalling about $40 billion for four years. A contract and one part of such assistance is to carry out a debt operation in accordance with the International Monetary Fund’s criteria. In March of this year, the Ukrainian side launched a negotiation process with commercial creditors. The object of the negotiation process is the debt of our state, the state banks, the city of Kiev and the U.S. Congressional Railways totalling $22.7 billion. At present, we have successfully conducted government bank debt operations totalling $2.8 billion. However, the last part of the debt is owed to the state’s commercial creditors amounting to $18 billion. The complexity was due to the availability of a blockage package of our debts to the four owners of the Eurobond. Negotiations with this group of creditors were difficult and lasting. The Ukrainian side has engaged all possible elements, including those that have been given to you in the form of a moratorium, as well as the strong support of our international partners and allies. This led to agreements that met the IMF criteria that the Prime Minister had talked about. US$ 3.6 billion, which is 20 percent of the 18 billion debt, is clearly written off by creditors. The balance of the debt is settled from 2019 to 2027. Interest rate 7.75 percent. Creditors agreed to such a significant concession to Ukraine under the conditions of obtaining an additional instrument, the so - called national derivative. We pay for this tool only in such cases if the real GDP growth is more than $125.4 billion compared to today's GDP, which is about $85 billion; only if the real GDP growth is more than 3 percent. Compared to the last 24 years, we have had this growth of nine out of 24 years. We don't pay anything until 2021. We pay for this tool in such cases. First. If real GDP increases from 3 to 4 percent, we pay 15 percent of the increase over 3 percent. If real GDP increases more than 4 percent, we pay 40 percent of the increase over 4 percent. The term of operation of this tool is 20 years, from 21 to 40 years. In addition, from 21 to 25 years, the first 5 years of these 20 years will be limited, a ceiling of not more than 1 percent of GDP. So our economy is going to be 10 years old for a new quality level of GDP for continued growth. It's a very important detail: debt cancellation, it's unconditional, and it's happening now, at the same time. Obtaining compensatory payments by creditors is conditional, and they may be equal to zero in some situations. So our country will pay for these instruments only if it is able to make such payments, and it will not be burdensome for the economy of the state. For the purpose of carrying out the debt operation, your view is proposed by three draft laws and one Supreme Council decree, which must be adopted in the first reading and in general today. We are confident that the Supreme Council will support this proposal today to ensure the financial security of our state. Regarding the draft Law on amending the Budget Code (Registration No. 3058). First, it is envisaged that the issue of release, service, and payment of a new type of securities of government derivatives will be settled. The other one. Applying to government derivatives the rules that are now in force for government borrowing. Third. Determining the priority of restructured debt for creditors who will not participate in the proposed debt transaction. Fourth, the resolution of technical issues related to the restructuring of the guaranteed debt. Dear National Deputies! The bill is supported by the Supreme Council's profile committee and I ask to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u32	Thank you. A full discussion procedure involves three minutes of questions. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Please, colleagues, ask questions. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u33	Mrs. Natalko! Peter Dustenk's Block, Solidarity. Please tell me we really had a good discussion and we thank you for being on our faction about the whole package of laws. There's doubt that we can actually get to a growth rate much higher than 4 percent. If we go to a growth rate of more than 4 percent, then we're going to return, or we're going to have to return very large amounts, I don't want to call them now. Do we have the possibility, over the course of these 10 years, to come back and maybe even make some warnings so that we don't get more than 3.6 and we're going to pay tens of billions that aren't practical write-offs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u34	First. I want to answer whether it's really cheating or not. It's real because all the other payments are conditional, and the write-off goes, and it's real to us now. The derivative turns out to be more like that, which has a risk and could be zero, it could be greater. I also want to emphasize that it is not incomprehensible. I'm just a real GDP growth of over 4 percent, more than 6 percent, more than 10 percent every year. There's just cyclicality that we're talking about. We can take any models, we can take four, we can take five. If the real GDP growth of Ukraine is 6 percent every year, from the next year, for example, to the 40th year, we're going to have 6 percent of GDP at a trillion dollars, one trillion dollars, a little bit more. The amount we have to pay in such a case, and this is simply not realistically cyclical in normal economic situations, in order to have a constant 6 percent, is impossible. Perhaps the swing may be higher, perhaps lower, but it is constantly as unrealistic. If this was the sum, it's absolutely possible for a country that has a trillion dollars of GDP, it's about 50 billion. In addition to that, I want to say that if a country is in a difficult situation, God forbid that aggression in the East, for example, gets worse. Ukraine always has the opportunity as any debtor to restructure debt again. You can see that it has been with Greece recently, not once, not twice, the restructuring is done. In addition to that, I want to emphasize that this derivative is traded separately from debt. They can be redeemed, and businessmen can be redeemed, and the state can be redeemed. In general, they can be redeemed. So if we have a great situation, we can buy them out, if business wants to participate, Ukrainian business can. But once again, I want to emphasize one thing, we have turned our creditors into our allies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u36	They are now as interested in the real growth of our economy as we are with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Barney Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u38	Good afternoon! We understand that the economy of the state is not in a very simple situation, that we have to save our country from the default. We see that this is a necessary step that needs to be taken to ensure and preserve the financial banking systems of the state. But by the way, we're looking for rational grain in this as well. If we pay back less, accordingly, we have the opportunity to outstrip our entrepreneurs and reduce tax pressure on them. Please modify the Tax Code, make tax reform so that small and medium-sized businesses, not oligarchy, can develop. And then people will understand us even more and thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u39	Thank you. We are preparing the Tax Code, a new tax reform. We are ready to support the simplified system as a whole and in general small and microbusiness. I started working alone in 1995, and that's all. But at the same time, I would like to emphasize whether you will accept the changes to the Tax Code or not? This gives us both a little bit of a break for small and medium-sized businesses and big business, which gives us a little bit of rest for everyone with tax reform or no tax reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u40	Thank you, Minister. Please invite the head of the budget subcommittee, Andry Gordjeev, to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u41	Good afternoon, Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! On 16 September, the Budget Committee considered a bill amending the Budget Code on the restructuring of State and State-guaranteed debt and its partial write-off, number 3058. The Committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, had a constructive discussion on the need for and the purpose of adopting the bill. Minfin believes that the adoption of appropriate legislative initiatives will ensure the economic and financial stability of the state and allow the State to properly service its sovereign and state-guaranteed debt. At the same time, with regard to the committee's bill, the bill is systematically linked to other government bills – 3057 on amendments to the Securities Act, 3059 on amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and the Financial Stability Order in Ukraine in the framework of the IMF 3056 programme. And then you have to look at these projects that are mutually agreed upon. Second, there are professional discussions on the treatment of payments for government derivatives as budget expenses or as debt liabilities. The government notes that the implementation of the bill does not require additional budgetary expenditure in 2015-2020. At the same time, according to previous conditions, payments for government derivatives may be made from the State budget for 2021 and 2040 years. At present, it is not possible to predict the amount of such payments. In summary, and taking into account the agreements reached with external creditors and international financial institutions, and the need to reduce the debt burden on the budget in the short term in order to create preconditions for the restoration of Ukraine's economic development, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved recommending a bill of 3058 for the Supreme Council to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions from a coconspirator, as well as three minutes for questions and answers. Please. Alexander Grigorovich Dombrowski, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u43	Good afternoon! Please tell us, what could be the effect on the State, on the financial and banking system of our State in the event that these bills are not voted on today?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u44	If from a financial point of view, this is a default, a default for our country. We all realize that the 18 billion that are now accounted for as our loan debt and the payment deadline that is already due must be paid, and we don't even have the budget, and they don't have their income, it's just a default. We have already taken the appropriate decision in Parliament to allow the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct a moratorium on such payments. And this tool just made us have these results with our creditors today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Ariev, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u46	Thank you. I'd like to go on with the last question. It is clear to all that, indeed, the consequence of the nonadmission of these bills is the refusal to serve debt obligations, called default. Defult has led many nations, including the Russian Federation, Argentina. These states, in principle, had no war at that time, and they were more or less standing on their feet. They had some resources to get out of this. Please tell me, can you describe at least a few paragraphs the effects of the defolt on Ukraine at present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u47	"The bloodlessness of Ukraine," in other words, I cannot personally call it. Because the cases you're talking about, the defult that countries went through, they didn't have any sides, they didn't have any neighbors of aggression like that in Ukraine. Accordingly, today, if we don't accept it, we invite our "good neighbor" here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, there are so many points of view about this right now. But I have a question: does the government, which has led the country to default, now tells and speculates on even those things that will not increase social standards, remain in the government's responsibilities? Is it still a political decision that we need to resolve this issue in this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u50	I don't want to be a lawyer for our government. But, Your Honor, I invite you to a meeting of the Committee of Budgets, which is held on a regular basis. And you'll know the financial situation. The situation is that these debts were not collected today, not by this government, but by the previous government. And you know that very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u51	Thank you, colleague. The final question, George Derevyanko, is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u52	Dear reporter, dear colleagues, Madam Minister, how do we know that if we have GDP growing to 3 percent, we don't pay anything extra, if WFP increases from 3 percent to 4 percent, we will pay 15 percent of the increase, and if that's more than 4 percent, 40 percent more than 4 percent. Please tell me, in relation to the actual amount of GDP now, given that the decline last year was 6.8 percent, this year about 9 percent, what will be the amount of this 15 percent if this increase is, for example, 1 percent of 3 to 4, what will be the total amount: 15 percent of this difference in relation to the current GDP for this year? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u53	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u54	Minfin gave us the calculations. So the situation of the first amendment to your question, if our GDP is more than $125 billion, then this rule enters, if it doesn't, then it won't. So let's say that it comes in, then it turns out that the increase of 4 percent in the country's GDP is going to be overpayment of 3.6 billion, which is now conditionally written down, we're going to get over payment of $5 billion, that's 8.3 we're going to get out. If we're actually accounting for these today. This debt, and we're counting the interest on it, we're getting 9.3 billion dollars at the same time. So in this case, at 4 percent of economic growth, we're going to get one billion economies, even, this is the calculation that Minfin gave us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. I think it's a good question. Please take your place. Colleagues, we have three minutes of factions and groups. Please prepare to write. Showcases from factions and groups, signing up, colleagues. Please log in. It's from Alexander Granowski's "Peter Prashenko" faction. Ah, Juliana Nina Petrovna, please. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, performance by the faction. Next up, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. There'll be a speaker from Peter Dustock's Block. Colleagues. Ruslan Demchak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, indeed, the adoption of these laws is especially important for our country today. And there's a lot of talk going on right now about the cost compensation tool. Because figures like tens of billions of dollars are being cast. Of course, they are. I just want to take this as an element and let you know that there's value for today, and we're all worried that the economy will grow, and some even say that it's bad, that it's going to grow, because we're going to pay a lot of debt. In fact, if we were to calculate and calculate the sum of the cost, for example, 4 percent, then the cost of the calculation is like 9 billion, and in fact today this value is equal to one and a half billion dollars. With 5 percent growth and some 33 billion, as if to pay in the future, the cost is now 6 billion, and so on. That's why I want to encourage everyone to settle down. Our main task for today is to save the country. So let's vote and support. Peter Dustenka's Block supports this block. This block of bills for restructuring Ukraine's external debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for real attention because I'm not going to talk about the trivial things that have been heard from the rostrum today, including the government's report. This is about the first and the main position. We're told that this is a 20 percent debt write-off. I want to make a responsible statement right now because we're being heard by experts, analysts, financiers, bankers all over the country right now. There's no cheating! There is a restructuring of the debt and its postponement. And now the question is, why are we being misled and told that this is cheating? Because no one tells you the truth about the conditions under which this restructuring took place. First and foremost. 20 percent of debt, part of debt, not total debt of 18 billion. But at the same time, for the remainder of the debt, which is 80 percent, the interest on this debt increases significantly from 7.25 to 7.75. Debt service will continue continuously, and that means plus 15 billion dollars that we don't have to pay today. Secondly, we're talking about repayments, and we're told that 20 percent, which are written off, will still come back and, they say, 20 years later. That's absolutely not true. Because there is an additional condition that this 20 percent return will take place as soon as our GDP rises more than 3 percent. My dears! Today our economy is lying on the ground, reaching the bottom. And if there's a normal intellectual and professional government that's not a corrupt government, we're not going to grow by 3 percent, we're going to grow by 6 to 7 percent without any doubt. And it's assuming that if we start to increase more than 3 percent, we're giving up 15 percent of GDP. And second, if we have more than 4 percent, we're giving 40 percent of GDP growth. What are we talking about? It's just going to be a disaster in the near future. We were driven into a path, we were told, on the one hand, by such a restructuring, and on the other hand, we have a default. That is why we today need to think seriously and put in certain safeguards. I think we'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u59	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u60	and make decisions consciously. Now it's just the first draft, it can be voted on. But then comes the Supreme Council ruling, over which.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u61	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Please, Alona Babak, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u62	Dear Ukrainian Parliament! Dear government! Dear people of Ukraine! Today we must make a very serious and responsible decision. And we want to say what that decision is. The solution is, and what we all fear and consider to be completely unfair is that in exchange for $3.6 billion at a certain point in our economic growth, we could actually give our creditors from 13 billion, maybe up to $40 billion, or maybe even more, than we said today, on a certain growth basis. And really, we're also exchanging this, we're doing this exchange, and we're doing this to cancel out the payments that we're literally supposed to have by 2020 today. Say, we think it's unfair -- 3.6 billion in exchange for 13 or maybe 40 or more? But do we today have the right to forget about the start of the hot season? Ukraine cannot live without warmth. Can we forget that we still have a huge amount of debt that we took with you and have a responsibility to pay them? Can we forget that we have an army? Can we forget that all of this is kept on the shoulders of entrepreneurs with an average wage today of 4,000,390 dollars or $200.? If you and I don't make a serious, responsible decision right now, then the information for the financial markets from our decision is going to fall. It's going to be extremely dramatic. And then this $200 to finance everything in winter and war, peace, hopefully, will not even be enough to buy a pack of aspirin. Do we today have the right to forget about the Ukrainian who is to carry this yoke on his shoulders today? We decided that we would not be afraid of Ukraine’s growth. We will. We will be happy if the growth rate is high, but we want Ukraine not to fall today. And that's why we're taking on this responsibility as the self-help faction and together with Parliament, and with the government, we're going to support the extremely difficult decision the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u63	When there is. When there's a state position, it sounds from this rostrum and calls for both respect and trust from colleagues, respectively. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs. What surprises me in general is the situation in Parliament when a key issue is being considered for the future country. I think if your pockets, your personal pockets, were to extract money, if you were to take your own property, you'd be much more careful. Today, we are talking about the future of the country for at least 30 years, 40 years in advance, about debt: will we take it out of our neck, or will we push it further?Oh, my God! And we see that a lot of people, they don't care. This is an answer to you, men of honor, for which we live. Because for 24 years, most people have come to Parliament to solve their own issues, not to decide the fate of the country, not to raise the country! That is why we live this way and therefore conclude! Now, to the essence of the bill. I want to speak to the Prime Minister. Do you remember, Mr. Prime Minister, as the coalition agreement was written last November? I, Victor Halasyuk, Victor Wolf and representatives of the Radical Party, have asked you to enter into a coalition agreement a requirement for debt write-off and restructuring. You almost jumped to the ceiling, along with the minister of finance, denying it. You said it was impossible that it was populism, that it would lead to a defolt country, and that "I'd never do it." Well, in politics, they say, "Never, never say "never." Six months after we told you about it, you finally started doing it! But how did you do that?Oh, my God! Does this work, along with the minister of finance, satisfy the Ukrainians? Is that what the Ukrainians were supposed to expect? I'm sure we could make a much better deal. Why is Greece cheating on Europe 100 billion? Why, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia, as a successor, agreed and for 30 years suspended payments with the Paris Club of Creditors. And you've only auctioned four years in advance. It seems to me that the deal you made could be much better, much better for Ukraine than it is. That's why we're asking you to continue negotiations with creditors, and we're asking you to review the conditions that we got for them to be in the interests of, first of all, the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian economy. And most of all. If you say you're going to save $4 billion in write-offs, lower the tariffs on GKG, lower taxes, raise people's wages and pensions, because these are budgeted. And if you write them down for payments abroad, give them to people inside the country, it'll be a real economic policy that you don't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u65	People's Front, Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u66	I will begin with history by the esteemed Head of the People's Deputies, the Government, the respected Ukrainian people. In 1940, Britain from a large empire became an island surrounded by German submarines. It was bombed, destroyed from all sides, and the United Kingdom entered into a large loan agreement in the United States. After the war, she paid all her debts and became a modern, world leader of the UN Security Council. When Winston Churchill became Prime Minister of Great Britain, London bombed German aircraft in May 1940, he stood before Parliament and invited all the opposition deputies and the ruling parties to unite during the war and vote together, counseling all together for one decision. And for five years in the British Parliament, they all voted together, both the opposition and the power, and won the Second World War. I mean, dear friends, we're having the same covert hybrid war with Russia. And I very much ask all the deputies here from all the factions, the MPs and the MPs who don't belong to any factions of the groups to realize this and to realize that today is kind of a sign day. Today, our decisions are viewed by the parliaments of other countries, international financial organizations, and very carefully observed from the Kremlin with the Red Square, and they are coming to understand our actions. I can also say that this deal may not be perfect. But remember, always the subject of a contract with a creditor is the subject of an agreement between the two parties. And the Government, in the face of the Minister of Finance of Natalia Jaresko, whom I believe should be grateful for her dedication to fighting, leaving her work in commercial structures to the State of Ukraine. Thank you for the conditions that have been chosen. I believe these conditions are effective now. Yes, once Ukraine's economic growth is several years from now, we will continue to pay the creditors for our debts. But these creditors will now be interested in the development of Ukraine. All these American, English and other funds will come here and invite us to invest in Ukraine so that we have economic growth in the country. And that's important too. Dear friends, I've been used to doing things the way I like Russia. And if Putin says he doesn't like this deal, it's different. Let us do differently, support the restructuring project, and our Ukraine will move towards economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u67	Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u68	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, any politician, any political party, before the threat of the country's default, must reject political ambition, must reject its position in politics: in opposition or in power, but should think about how to help the state get out of the crisis and how the state gets on its feet, and ensure economic growth. We realize that today the country needs to find $40 billion in the next four years to cover only the payment gap in external borrowing and internal balance. We understand that at this difficult moment, we need to put the shoulders of the state and take responsibility for the economics to come to a sound mind, so that we can go through this period of turbulence and get into new economic policies. Today the state needs a completely new economic policy, the Rebirth Party our faction will support today's vote of state and allow us to get out of this cabal, reduce external borrowing. Getting out of the economic crisis, but we demand that politics continue to be designed, at least for at least a year. We demand that a new Tax Code be introduced, that there be a real decentralization of the budget, that the economy be restored, that industry be restored, that powerful infrastructure projects be launched, that will give new jobs and increase the economy. Because what we're talking about today is that we have to increase GDP and from GDP to debt. Where will the gross product and the growth of the economy come from if there is no investment policy, if there is no new economic policy. So we need to prepare a clear budget for next year. Prepare a budget strategy for the next three years to produce powerful infrastructure projects. We demand the immediate introduction of a new Tax Code that reduces taxes, simplifies tax administration, reduces tax burdens on wages and makes it possible to create jobs. We demand that the Budget Code be revised. To keep a large portion of taxes in place. And this will allow local budgets to create jobs, and to make real economic sense of areas, villages, cities and areas of Ukraine. That's why the Rebirth Party supports today's vote. But we're saying once again that Ukraine's revival will take place through a new investment policy, through a new economic policy and powerful infrastructure projects, industrial projects and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please record three performances by the national deputies. Be prepared by the national deputies, three performances by three minutes from the national deputies. Please log in, procedure. And then the closing word. We've finished speaking from factions and groups. Please, National Deputy Igor Pober. Please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really discussing a matter that affects the fate of the country and not for one year. And an extremely important question. I understand the problems that the country is facing, and I understand the current problems that need to be solved. But we have no right to make decisions without thinking about its consequences for the future. I'm not going to touch that part of the deal that concerns restructuring. You could talk about some details, but there's nothing to talk about. But there's a second part of the deal about what's called "debt write-offs." But if they cheat, they don't require payments, they don't make commitments, which we now call "derivatives." In other words, unfortunately, there is no debt cancellation. Ukraine has made new commitments to Ukraine for 20 years, starting on January 15, 2021. I'm not going to repeat the details here. I hope they've been heard, and everyone understands them. When it comes to debts, we cannot separate the amount that we are supposed to pay, with commitments that Ukraine can repay. The government gives different options and estimates. I've done evaluations, I've seen other calculations made by other organizations of authority. Depending on the rate of growth, the amount increases at a very critical rate. I don't want to hear the numbers. The only thing I can tell you is that in some cases, the annual amount of payments goes beyond the total amount of write-offs. We are assured that the Ukrainian economy will not grow at this high rate. Does he have the right to exist? Yes, of course. But does he have a different opinion? Who will take responsibility today in the country to anticipate Ukraine’s development for the next 25 years? But we can't go 2-5 years ahead. I'd like to draw your attention to this: the Ukrainian economy has evolved from 2000 to 2008 including. The average growth rate this year. This period was 6.9 percent. During this period, the rate was 9.1, 9.6, and even 12 percent. Please tell me, who's going to take the fall and say we're not going to have a 12 percent increase during this period? And let's figure out what 12 percent of the increase is. That's 3.5 percent of GDP. I've calculated that at the rate of GDP growth, 3.8 percent, we're up to $450 billion in 2035. Imagine the amount that we have to pay, which is several times the amount that we have to pay. I'm not calling anyone to anything. I understand the responsibility of this decision, but I felt it was my professional and civil duty to inform you of the agreements made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Andrew Gordjeev. Paul Kishkar, please. Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u72	Dear friends, dear enemies! Today, this is a difficult decision to make in support of these bills. The Kabin misjudges us by drawing attention to the negative assessment of these laws by the Russian Federation, which is a very weak position. Our strong position in the normal economic strategy of the state of Ukraine, the conquest of new markets in Asia, Africa, the Arab world. We expect such creative decisions from the government. My controversial position on GDP, we have more GDP, because today most of GDP is hidden in a corrupt component. So, Minister, count real GDP and give it to our investors. It's going to be almost twice as much GDP as we've calculated today. And then it will be easier for us to measure up to our obligations. Because when we overcome the corruption component, we will have to pay less for it. Kabin’s poor explanation of the increase in pensions and salaries seems to be related to these loans. There's no relationship, the relationship between salary pensions in the economy and economic activity, economic development -- both wages and pensions, to the knowledge of our Kabmin. In fact, these bills are the responsibility for the past. Today, we must make a difficult decision and bear this responsibility. We're talking about the government acting differently. The government can take creative decisions and ideas, such as those of the Commission for the Future. Let's think about the future. In economic development, we have a future. And if we live to 2021, we will definitely defeat Russia, and our children and mine in the future, in two or three days, the born son will be a happy person. Only to victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Paul Rizanenko, the Peter Dust Block. And let's move on to the final word of Natalia's reporter, Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear fellows. You know, I have a professional distortion, I'm a former investment bank, and my job was to count the cost of derivatives, evaluate them, and so on. And today, I'm an MP, and I need to make a conscious decision in the interests of the country. The situation looks like this financially. We're in a difficult situation. On the one hand, they plan to kill us, on the other hand, there are our partners on the other, but who are not willing to forgive our sins, they are willing to help us temporarily, give us a five - year span. You know, all financial instruments have value. And even today, bankers in London and New York are talking about the cost of those derivatives that everybody's talking about, that's going to be tens of billions, or whatever it is. Yeah, in an approximate simulation, Monte Carlo shows that it's going to be tens of billions, but tens of billions in the future is more money than it is today. Today, bankers estimate the cost of these derivatives from about 6 to 20 centers per dollar of restructured debt. You can multiply and you can see that this is equal to or even a little bit larger than the debt that is forgiven. But we don't have to pay it now, we're going to pay it in the future. So it's a difficult choice, but he has to be aware. We need to understand that no one is giving us anything, we are paying for our mistakes, our irresponsibility in the past, and it is, you know, better to take away less evil than the ignorance and destruction of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u75	Thank you, colleagues. Welcome to the closing statement. One minute, Rosenblatt, please. I left my colleague behind after the faction. One minute, National Deputy Rosenblatt, please. And then Natalia Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! There were many things today about our sovereign debt. But this is not a sovereign debt. It's a debt to private investors. Today, all countries of the world are waiting for our decision. And I just want to assure you, after today's vote, the private investor we are so looking for in Ukraine today will turn to us. And they'll look at it differently. If we support it today, it's really the way to Ukraine and the European, and the American, and all the other world leaders of the investment climate around the world. So I want to assure you that by upholding this law, we are supporting the future of our country. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u77	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor of Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! I just want to let you all know, I'm just trying to make the country grow at a fast, high rate. And everything we do in government, everything I do and this restructuring is just done to make that growth possible. There was talk of nominal amounts that we would have to pay if there was such a high increase. For example, we have to pay $8.3 billion in the future for 4 percent of a year on a regular basis for 25 years. Yes, this is more than the deceiving that we will receive today. But including GDP at $600 million, today's Swiss level. These 8.3 billion need to be compared not only with the written-off debt of 3.6, but 3.6 and the interest that we have to pay if we don't cheat. You can take any amount, we took the sum, we predict it's about an extra 5 billion. So the sum is nominally smaller, not to mention. or the modern value of this money in the future. But what does this mean for the people? To pay for this level, they're actually 8.3 sounds more than 3.6, it is. At the same time, GDP per capita would have been increased by 7.5 times, the average wage would have increased by 11 times, the country's gold reserves would have increased by 6 times. From today's 12 to the 6 times. The amount of government budget that you and I share so hard would have increased by six times. The annual budget funding of one student, for whom we are fighting so hard today, would increase by 11 times. Annual public health budgeting would increase by 14 times. And the average pension amount is 10 times. So we don't make any payments this size if the whole country doesn't participate if we don't all have a plus for this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. In the package of laws, the five laws that we are considering today, they are all interconnected in all the conclusions and decisions of the committee, and of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, they are all linked. So I suggest that we discuss 3058, go on and discuss all the bills, and then determine how to vote on each of them. For your consideration of the application (registration No. 3057) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets on State Derivatives (restructuring the State and the State-guaranteed debt and its partial write-off). Should we discuss it in full procedure or in summary? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues. Let's do that. Identify yourself, there's a proposal for a committee cut, there's a proposal for a hall. Be sure to vote. We still have four laws, we're still there. We can talk for a long time. Please, colleagues. The proposal is to consider 3057 as a reduced procedure. Identify yourself. This is the right of national deputies. This proposal is supported by a committee. tabled by the committee. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:38:46]] For 190 This proposal received 190 votes. That's enough. It's a procedural decision. Please invite Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko to report on the reduced procedure. Please. Please note that the report is two minutes, the report is two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! This bill foresees, first, the introduction of a new kind of securities that we just talked about with you, a government derivative. The other one. State derivatives will be placed on international stock markets. Third. Payments for government derivatives are made in the event that certain GDP figures are reached that we have just talked to you about. And the fourth. The State-derivatives mission will form part of the budgetary process, in accordance with the Budget Code. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's profile committee and I ask that you vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please report, Paul Rizanenko, head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Please, Paul Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u82	Congratulations, dear fellows. Your point is to consider a bill (register No. 3057) by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill amends the Law on Securities and Stock Markets. In fact, there are three key points. The term "state derivatives" is introduced, and it is assumed that the issue of government derivatives does not require compliance with the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. So for these securities there's going to be an exclusion. But they are being released according to the provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code. These are the three main points you need to know. The changes are needed precisely to allow the state to release those instruments that we talked about during the debates called the Quarantine. Thank you. The committee supported the bill and suggested that it be supported on the basis, as a whole. Consider that he will have a one - time action, doing so only under the release of these guarantees in connection with the restructuring of the debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you. Please speak with honorary colleagues, the report, and the report. Please sign up: two for, two for against, please. Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party. Victor Halasyuk. To prepare is the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Government! People of Ukraine! Does the restructuring of Ukraine’s sovereign debt need to be done? It's needed as air, because without it, we're not going to take off that colossal sum of finance from the neck of the Ukrainian budget: 17 percent are government budget expenditure just for the payment of interest on our sovereign debt, and in these circumstances, economic growth is simply impossible. That's why, with the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, we initiated this issue in 2014. In early 2015, a corresponding Supreme Council decree was issued. Today, such talks have taken place. Are the proposed conditions ideal? Of course, they are far from ideal. Are they just in their dealings with Ukraine? We don't think so! Because, in fact, if the international community were to support Ukraine as a European country deserves to be, which is a safeguard of Western civilization, against which the second-largest military aggression in the world is being committed, these conditions would be very different. If our foreign creditors thought, not about their short-term profits, but thinking about geopolitics, thinking about strategies, then the terms of the debt restructuring would be like they were for Greece, like they were for Poland and so on. For example. Greece has written down 52 percent, not 20 percent. Of these, 40 percent of economic growth was not accepted; they had an iron limit of 1 percent. It's not there, Poland wrote down 50 percent. The sums are much larger. Can we stop at this if we adopt these laws? We have no right. We need to continue the negotiations and make sure that a more extensive restructuring of government debt with real massive write-offs is made and that these costs are aimed at raising social standard wages, wages, pensions, re-establishing the Ukrainian industry in order to make jobs work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u86	For jobs to be created in Ukraine, not just to go abroad. We have to win the competition, the government has to come back face to face.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u88	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to the German Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u89	Leonid Yemen, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Leonid Yemen, the People's Front, the Mayor's District of Kiev. We have discussed this matter seriously enough today in the Supreme Council, and we have heard the conclusions of the Minister of Finance and the speeches of the national deputies. In fact, we're going to be transforming further discussion into apopulism, because we actually understand one very simple thing. We have no right to avoid accepting this question. By doing so, we will destroy our country, we will create a situation of default, and so voting is essential today, and we have to provide it. So I propose now all the following speakers, to shorten their speeches, to vote in favour of this, which is necessary for the Ukrainian State, to decide and to come to the consideration of other issues of order, which we also have a lot and which are also extremely important to the Ukrainian State today, and to the Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland. Prepare Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u92	I have the opportunity to continue. It is unfortunate that such an extremely important issue for the country is being considered by a reduced procedure and that it is practically covered up by an open discussion. So I want to continue that actually the derivatives that we're talking about are exactly the kind of document that forms as if it's a written-off debt, you understand that. And what's more, these laws, including the loan agreement, don't even have a percentage of how much the State will pay for these securities. And it's not excluded that she's also going to pay 7.75 for it. But the worst part is that the increase in Ukraine's GDP will be very rapid as soon as military action stops and as soon as the professional government comes. And we're going to pay this creditor ten times as much as we do today, as if we're being cheated! And that means that our children and grandchildren will be responsible. And that's the key! And I want to tell you one more thing, that the ruling that is now being made is absolutely unforeseeable by legislation, and this is a shared responsibility that Parliament is being involved in to cover the free negotiations that the government has conducted! But on the other hand, we have a very big problem. If we don't confirm that today, we're going to have a default tomorrow and a complete destruction of the country's financial system. And so, the only way out of this is by cooperating fully with Victor Pinzenic, who's the only one who's got the courage to tell the truth from this rostrum, I want to say that we're going to have to vote in favour of this disgrace, but we have to free the government. And the new government must immediately review all these agreements – immediately!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u93	Please, Ruslan Demczak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I want to spread the myths and say that when Ukraine's economy is growing, it's not bad! That's very good. And we can now compare Ukraine with a Ukrainian family that has to repay the loan and cannot. She can pay a small percentage, but she can't pay 30-40 percent of her income. Do you understand? That's why we're going to make money, and we're going to have to pay the part that we can pay off our debts systematically in the future. So these are interconnected things. And let's not really turn our discussion into populism right now. The topic is, Law 3057 is one of those laws that goes comprehensively after restructuring. I propose that he be supported and put to the vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion was completed in 3057. Draft Law 3059, draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code on Tax Features during the restructuring of State and State-guaranteed debt and its partial write-off. 3059, the same proposal by the committee to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please, I understand that this is a technical decision in relation to the previous decision. 3059, short-circuit offer. Please identify 3059 as a reduced procedure. [[11:49:49]] For 169 Decision taken. Please report, Natalia Jaresko, two minutes, to the committee head's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! This law, with registration number 3059, provides that, first of all, the income of state - owned enterprises will not be taxed. guaranteed by the State. This is Fininpro, Food and South, which will occur if they cancel their debt as part of a debt operation. Second, payments for government derivatives will not be subject to taxation, as already provided for by legislation for government loans. And thirdly, the new instrument will be technically brought to the existing norm of our legislation on government borrowing. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is supported by the Supreme Council's own committee of attorneys with rights agreed upon by the Ministry of Finance. And I would like to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Please report, the head of the committee, Nina Petrovn Jujanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Yesterday we discussed the bill on the committee. Debt obligations of companies subject to restructuring take the form of debt. Indeed, the write-off of accounts payable is in line with. According to accounting rules, it's reflected in the company's incomes. in the event of their write-off, which will have a positive impact on the financial performance of these enterprises. Therefore, the bill itself proposes to reduce the financial result before taxing the amount of such income that has been reflected in financial reporting. However, the bill did not take into account the fact that the companies in question were doing their jobs, and thus they accounted for outstanding debt for the work done, which is financed by the budget, and this debt is considered receivable. As a result of this and for the purpose of a comprehensive solution, the committee proposes to bring the project into line with the Ministry of Finance. I quote the text of the amendment under the transcript: "Chapter I of the bill, after paragraph two, add a new paragraph to the following sentence: "The financial result of taxation increases by the amount of the expenses incurred by the taxpayers referred to in paragraph 1 of this paragraph under accounting rules when writing off hopeless receivables for goods delivered, jobs, services payable at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. This increase in the financial result to taxation is taking place on a scale that does not exceed the amount of income referred to in paragraph 1 of this paragraph." In view of the relevance, I propose to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u99	Thank you. That's 3059 with the committee's amendments. Please write down: two for, two for against, if necessary, procedure foresees it. "Block of Petra Prashenka", Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u100	Please give the floor to the expert in the financial and credit matters of Doubenko Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u101	Mikhailo Volodymyrovich Dovbenko, please, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, and this bill that we're considering, and the one that we're considering, it gives us the opportunity to formulate in a professional way the conduct of a debt operation. So I think from the point of view of professionals, what's proposed, we need to support it. But in the discussion that we are having today, I think there are almost no people in this room who understand that we need to go to this restructuring. The biggest discussion that's going on today is this, and if we don't have 4 percent, but 5 or 8 or 10? I'm optimistic and I want to say that I believe we're going to have more than 4 percent, I'm sure even that. But as an expert, I want to tell you, we have a situation today and we say, some say, there's no alternative. There's an alternative: either today we accept this package, or we don't accept it, and we also understand how we're going to move, what it's going to do for the economy and for our society in general. So if we go to 5 percent growth or 8 percent growth, we can go back to this problem, and we can actually look for tools to figure out how we can get out of this situation. And experts, I also see how we can move on. I just want to say, when today's situation is extremely difficult, you've heard the price of trading securities, called Paul Rizanenko, and when the situation is better, we'll also know what the price will be. We are uncomfortable to say in advance today even what we will do if we have a GDP growth of 5, or 7, or 8. Then we'll talk. So I think today we need to adopt these bills and move, and 10 years from now, we need to get back to the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Then Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! What is the cost of such restructuring? The price is absolutely colossal. Because if Ukraine grows over 15-20 years, as Poland has grown, as Turkey has grown by 5 percent a year, we will pay more than two tens of billions of dollars a year under these agreements. What does that mean? This means, again, that we don't have the right to breed, we have to use it for radical economic, institutional reforms, because such unfavourable conditions that we have been able to, let's say, make it happen, are dictated, including that our international partners see that in Ukraine, unfortunately, power is not capable and does not carry out genuine radical economic reforms. We have to fix this, we have to use this gap to really create the conditions for creating new jobs, in order to return to not only our international creditors, but, above all, our main people in the country. Who are the main people? They're employers, they're investors, they're taxpayers, they're those who can give Ukraine 10 times more than all the international currency funds that we have together. These are tens of billions of dollars that are in the shadow economy that are running across offshore because the authorities have not created normal, attractive investment conditions and have not overcome corruption. And with regard to specific observations, we also have them. See Law 3057. It provides that the payment of income, the repayment of government bonds are made with money or attention! - in another form by consent. So the question is, what is this "other form"? What else can the state account for under those bonds?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u105	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u106	And in addition to the rule contained in Bill 3058 on the waiver of sovereign immunity in court disputes, it creates a very dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Colleagues! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u108	There is no doubt that the agreement that goes into effect by 2040 will be such a fundamental financial stalemate, because we will definitely have GDP growth and we will definitely pay interest, up to 40 percent of GDP growth by these debts. And we're going to go beyond what's now written over and over again. This is practically a gain in Ukraine. And it's huge. And the Ukrainian government allows that. We're only offered an alternative to default tomorrow. But there's a bill that we're discussing, 3059. It's a bill on very specific things -- that someone who makes so much money in Ukraine will be exempt from taxation. And imagine, today, when pensions are taxed, when they're taxed all of them today, at this time, people who make profits will be tax-free. But more than just exempting non-residents from tax, non-residents, is a more humbling thing. Well, that's the order for today, but what's scary is that this law, paragraph 36, exempts earnings from taxes on Ukrainian residents' debts. Call me by name who is making money from Ukrainian businesses today in the debt crisis of Ukraine! I want these people in my face. And I want to understand who is not enough to take this extra money from Ukraine at a difficult time, and they won't pay taxes. And so paragraph 36, where residents are exempt from taxation, has to be excluded. It's ridiculous, actually, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u109	Colleagues, discussion over. Please invite to the glory of the head of the profile committee, clarification. One minute, please, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! I still want to explain that this bill does not apply to the issues that have now been raised from the rostrum. They only apply to the creditors' debt to state-owned enterprises, such as the South Angel Design Office, which has such a loan debt, Food supply, a state-owned enterprise financing infrastructure projects. They account for this creditor's debt, and so when it's written off, there's going to be technical moments that she just talked about that don't apply to the income of the written-off creditor debt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, the draft Financial Stability Regulation under the International Monetary Fund Expansion Facility programme is a draft regulation. Is there a need to discuss it? None. Let's move on. 3060, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act. Uh, committee, please. Draft Regulation on Financial Stability in the implementation of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) programme. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this provision. 3056, there's an offer to make. An uncontroversial report. Please, colleagues, consider the reduced procedure, 3056. Please. Short-term procedure, colleagues. Review of this provision by summary procedure. [[12:02:44]] For-154 Decision taken. Please, Andrew Gordjeev from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! On 16 September, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on financial stability in the country in the implementation of the International Monetary Fund programme, the extended funding mechanism of 3056. Regarding this project, the committee noted that due to the exercise of the relevant rights, the debt burden on the State budget would be reduced in the current and the next few years. However, from 2021 to 2040 there may be an increase in the budget burden due to the need to pay for government derivatives. There is no need in addition to the Supreme Council to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the provision of debt-debted actions, since legislation gives appropriate powers to the government and directly to Minfin. Third. Details are needed on the deadline for the government to submit a plan of action to bring the total amount of government and state-guaranteed debt to the set requirements. In addition, the Committee on Budgetary Questions believes that detailed information on the results of such an operation and its audit should be provided in the framework of parliamentary monitoring following the commission of the relevant acts. In the light of what has been said, the Committee on Budget Affairs has adopted such a decision. And, Julia Volodymyrically, it is, by the way, responding to your thesis on responsibility. Recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Decree 3056 to be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals made in the statement. In particular, in paragraph 1, not to entrust the government with the exercise of rights, but to take note of them. In paragraph 3, limit the date of submission of the action plan not later than March 1, 2016. Complement with new paragraphs 4 and 5, according to which to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers by 1 March 2016 to the Supreme Council and the Court of Auditors with information on the results of State and guaranteed debt in 2015. Third. Recommend that the Court of Auditors carry out financial audits and audits of the effectiveness of transactions related to the commission of the relevant acts. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard a report on the draft ruling from the committee. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (to increase living minimum and minimum wage). Registration number 3060. And there's also an alternative, 3060-1. There is a proposal to review these draft laws by a reduced procedure, according to the submission of a profile committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself for consideration of the reduced procedure of draft laws. [[12:05:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please report to Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. I'm continuing the meetings of the Supreme Council and I want to inform you that we're probably not going to announce a recess because we need to discuss such important laws in the complex. Please, Natalia Jarezko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u114	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, your opinion is proposed for a draft amendment to the 2015 State Budget, which has been prepared for the purpose of approaching the legislation that has been adopted to increase living minimum and minimum wage, with corresponding increases in labour costs, pensions, assistance to families with children and one-time assistance, scholarships for graduate and doctoral students, and indexation from the scholarship fund from December 1st to September 1, 2015, and the resolution of other priority issues. We were able to bring it to you, and we were able to speed it up. Because the adoption that we're expecting from you today, the draft restructuring bill, gives us the opportunity to expect stability further in our coming into the budget and that we're going to be able to use these funds in this form. It is estimated that on 8 months 2015 there is a steady trend in overcoming the income portion of the general government budget fund. In view of the above, the bill proposes that the planned revenue of the state budget be increased by 14.3 billion dollars in 2015, including the general fund, by 16.4 billion dollars. First, the value added tax is 9.2 billion dollars, including the reimbursement of the VAT in the amount of 7 billion dollars, the import duty is 3.8 billion dollars, the company income tax is 1.6 billion dollars, the tax and the revenue collection of individuals is 0.3 billion dollars, and the other revenue is 1.5 billion dollars. The specified resource is offered to follow the following directions. Nearly 10 billion dollars for speeding up and raising social standards from December 1st to September 1, 2015. The minimum wage is going to go up to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u115	Please continue, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u116	The minimum wage will increase to 1 thousand 378 dollars from 1 thousand 218 dollars, minimum per person, to 1 thousand 330 dollars. So both of these are increasing by 13 percent. The minimum pension will increase to more than 1 thousand 74 bracelets. Assistance and scholarships are also increasing. 2.7 billion extra dollars to pay off the difference in tariffs for heat, heating, hot water produced for the population, 0.9 billion dollars for defence and law enforcement, 0.3 billion dollars for the replenishment of the reserve fund, 0.2 billion dollars for the purchase of digital mammography and ultrasonic diagnostic devices for domestic production, I emphasize, domestic production, and 0.25 billion dollars for other front-line costs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is primarily aimed at improving people's social security. And please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u117	Thank you, Minister. Please report to Vasil Amelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u118	Dear Ukrainians, Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Budget Committee on September 16th considered a government bill amending the State Budget for 2015 Act at number 3060. The committee supports the government's initiative to move the minimum and minimum wage periods from December 1st to September 1st, with a corresponding increase in the social expenditure of the budget. At the same time, it has been pointed out that such an initiative does not foresee an increase in social guarantees taking into account the current socio-economic situation in the country. But according to the government’s explanation, this now corresponds to the state’s real financial capabilities. In addition, the committee gave special attention to the issue of the availability of educational and medical subsidies. It was the initiative of the members of the budget committee that the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health took part in our meeting yesterday. And they assured us that the proposed bill would ensure that the amount of such subsidies would be maintained by the end of the year. All of you are in the districts and these questions arise periodically and permanently today in the budgetary sphere. So the ministers assured yesterday, and I hope that the government will follow these guarantees, and these budget holders: the educators, the teachers -- I'm more of a Ukrainian person today, will ensure full pay by the end of this year. According to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. In particular, the bill has not been given the necessary detailed calculations and explanations on the corresponding changes in the income and expenditure of the state budget. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision recommending a bill of 3060 to be adopted on a basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u119	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u120	To recommend a bill of 3060 to be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the conclusions contained in the letter of the Committee of Proposals, which regulates the issue of financial security until the end of this year of the current trends in socio-economic development of the regions. In the event that such a bill is adopted, the Budget Committee, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary changes to the text of the bill and its addenda, taking into account the supported proposals, as well as the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u121	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please sign up: two for, two against. Sign up, colleagues, two to go, two to go. Please, National Deputy Romanov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u122	I give the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u123	Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u124	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! We can't believe that people don't understand what's going on in the country. But on the other hand, we need to use every moment today to show that government is responsible and not populist. These 200 or 300 bracelets that we add today don't actually save anyone. But 200 or 300 dollars must be followed by a responsible policy on reforms in the field. Mr. Prime Minister, we have to leave money in people's pockets for correct tariffs. And the Self-Help faction will not back down in order to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers, Naftogaz, which does not exist, corrupt by the irresponsibility of the NCRE against tariff recalculation. This is a social standard that leaves real money in people's pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Gus Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u126	Please pass the word to Oleg Medunic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, yesterday on the Committee of Budgets, we have long considered a number of these laws and, in particular, this, the most important law. And we think that the time has come when the Supreme Council can really demonstrate its attitude towards the problems that ordinary Ukrainians have. Today we can say with confidence that we have been able to stabilize the economy, that we have increased the revenue of the State budget, and that we have an additional resource that we can use to increase social standards for Ukrainian citizens. The People's Front faction unanimously supports this government law, urges a colleague not only by coalition but also by other factions to vote in favour of this law, which awaits millions of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u129	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to address, first of all, Ukrainian citizens and explain what is meant when the government proposes to raise social standards by 13 percent. We need to understand that this is done for a number of reasons. The first reason is that such a rise in government wants to at least cover in some way these unfavourable conditions that have been achieved with creditors. Because people need to understand, and we are all well aware that by 2040 Ukraine is becoming even more indebted than it was before. The second reason why this is done is because elections are coming. And not in May, not in April, not in March, nor in March, when Fatherland was trying to index wages and pensions, as provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation, it's now in order to say on October 25, look at how much social standards we've raised for you. But in fact, if you follow a methodology approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, these social standards should be raised not by 13 percent, but by 72 percent. In July, a unique situation arose when only 40 percent made up the minimum cost of living in the country. Of course, Fatherland will vote for it, even for it, but at the same time, we demand a real wage and pension index, the first. Second, make tariffs so that people can pay for them in October, November, and December. We should not turn people into those who do not live but simply survive. That's why we're going to vote, but we're not going to stop the tariffs from being real, and the wages and pensions are worthy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u130	Please, Vitaly Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today we have discussed many questions with you. Besides, today we have to make a very responsible decision about raising social standards. I believe it will be supported by the deputies of all factions. We blamed the citizens of Ukraine, they have to pay back their debts. This is just the beginning, and there are pensioners, teachers, health workers, children of war, and other types of population. I believe that we need to systematically address this problem and to make decisions that we have approved. At the same time, let's take a consolidated political position and implement the possibility of lowering tariffs for citizens no less than a quarter. What is proposed for this? Measures to demonopolize markets, reduce tax pressure, minimize non-productive costs in this area. In addition, untransparent tariff schemes need to be untangled. In the new budget for 2016, these are the approaches that must be put in place. Secondly, I propose raising social standards to be considered by the government and the Supreme Council once a quarter, not twice a year. Thirdly, the great source of cost savings and the reduction of tariff pressure on the citizens' family budget is the unfortunate eradication of corruption at the local level. Just one example: in Dnipropetrovsk, just one housing administration in 10 months, nearly 18 million dollars out of 46 million came from the population to pay the utility bill to the Jacks -- almost 40 percent. There are many such examples, not just in the Dnipropetrovsk region. The community sphere is today a matter of national security. Stopping theft and corruption in the communal sphere is the shortest way to bring order into the field and to restore social tranquillity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Factions per minute that did not participate in the discussion. Please, Oleg Lazko. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u133	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The bill that is proposed to raise social standards: pensions, wages, and so on -- we certainly thank the government for finally bringing it into the hall a few months after we requested the government to introduce the bill. But is that bill that we demanded, or is it the increase that we demanded? No, no, not again. Those coins are the bone from the bar table, and they don't solve any problems at all. When we have 320 percent of inflation in 14 months. By the way, where is the head of the National Bank when the key issues of the financial system and the country's debt are addressed? Why is there no National Bank representative in Parliament? But about wages and pensions. Let the person who assigns it live on that salary and pension – for 1200 or 1,300 dollars when it comes to paying for everything and nothing to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u134	Jaroslav Moskalenko, please. And then the report on Natalia Royal, the alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u135	Jaroslav Moskalenko, group "The Will of the People". The noble Ukrainian people! Dear colleagues! Law 3060 will support the will of the people, because it refers to people's lives and here, of course, in this one-stop shop. With regard to the four previous drafts, my dear colleagues, I would like you and I to think very carefully before we take a decision on the principle of Ukraine. I'm not going to speak the language of finance, I'm going to say, imagine that Ukraine is a family. And today, with debts, parents decided to transfer their debt to their children 20 years in advance to make a beautiful life and look good in front of a neighbor. And that's not one problem. After 20 years, if children live in poverty, they will owe each other as parents; and if they can learn and live well. They will not be able to live well, for they will give more than their parents. Let's think, dear fellows, before we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u136	Please, Natalia Royal. Report 3060-1 as an alternative law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Today, our country's fateful decisions are being taken in this Hall. And one of the most important issues on the agenda is how people will live. The opposition bloc is offering to raise social standards, and we propose to increase them by 74 per cent: raise minimum pensions, minimum wages, benefits. Because today the rise of a few dozen bracelets of social standards, what the Government is proposing today, will not change the situation in the country. Now it's time to pay people off. I want to remind you what's going on today. Over the past year and a half, people have experienced a rise in tariffs, and especially now, this is very and very relevant. The biggest increase in tariffs since the independence of our country. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that all the gravity of inflation, the inflation tax today, is entirely on the shoulders of our citizens. Official inflation rate 2014 and 8 months 2015: 74 per cent. That Government's pledge to increase tariffs by 13 per cent would not solve the problem today. You're even 1/6 of the price that people pay for everything today, so you won't cover it. Well, you know, people have been patient and understanding for a year and a half. And we realize that it's hard, it's bad, it's complicated, it's war, it's problems in the country, and that today we had to go through this difficult time. But finally, we finally heard the government's statement, the finance minister says there's money in the country, the budget has been overrun by 24 billion grevens, 46 billion grevens lying on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u138	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u139	46 billion grevens lie in a treasury account. So if there is money, the Minister of the Economy assures us that the economy is beginning to grow, so let's give it to people honestly, give what people are actually making today. Therefore, we insist on the indexation of 74 per cent, the minimum wage of up to 2119 bracelets and a minimum pension, up to 1,651 bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, give me a minute. It's the Rebirth Party. Victor Bondar, one minute. And I ask all the faction leaders to invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, and we will move on to the voting of the issues under discussion. Please, everyone to the hall. Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Deputies! Of course, "The Rebirth Party" was one of the first in the autumn of this year to register bills to raise minimum wage, social protection. But at the time, few people listened, because everyone thought there was some kind of euphoria, that the authorities knew what to do, that there would be big money in the country tomorrow, we'd get credit, we'd get through it nicely, and so on. It didn't work out. Today we see that raising social standards is taking place, but it's going to be a mess. Literally tens, a hundred bracelets. This does not solve the situation completely for the people. This will not give people a chance to solve anything. We're talking again about, of course, supporting this bill. Even there's an extra 100 dollars today for most people, that's a lot of money. But we're talking about something else. That without economic policy change, without industrial recovery, there will never be a real increase in wages and social benefits. The only way is to restore industry and the economy. Only.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Social issues, please. Minister Pavel Rosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! Let me say a few words about the social changes that are being proposed today in the State Budget of Ukraine. And I'd like to start with a history tour when you and I were here approving the 2015 budget. Then, I want to say, all the experts, all the experts, knowing the state of the country, nine months ago, said one thing that the rise in social standards that you've been planning since December 1, 2015 is a very ambitious and almost unrealistic task for a country in a state of war whose economy is falling, whose economy is destroyed, which is actually working today, one of the largest states in the world. This was said nine months ago. But despite these words, despite that understanding of this situation, we have always talked about it, the government has been talking about it, the coalition has demanded of us: if there is a possibility, even for a month, for two, though for three, to do everything to raise social standards before, we have to do it. And that's why today's decision is the result of the joint work of the entire coalition, the entire government, to approve the necessary changes. I mean, it's not like tens of dollars is going to go up. As a result of an increase in the minimum wage and, above all, the first tariff level of a single tariff network, which increases by almost 19 per cent, the salaries of budget workers are about 3 million Ukrainians: teachers, doctors, cultural workers, social workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u144	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u145	For them, the terms of pay and salary in general will increase from 200 to 600 dollars. It's very important. When we're talking about not just raising wages, we're going to raise highly skilled labour, we're going to bet on our employees. And the last. I mean, really, this promotion doesn't solve all the problems. But we say one thing clearly: this is not the end of social growth and budget initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u146	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u147	The state budget, the 2016 budget, will be even more socially oriented: social policy expenditure, social growth in 2016 will increase. We will move on and gradually move on to a gradual rise in social standards, and in 2016 it will be happening twice a year. So this is the first step, but not the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u148	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. And I'm asking everyone to come into the People's House and take their seats. And I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u149	Dear Mr. Head, the great members of the coalition! The People's Front faction, the Self-Help faction and other factions, the great opposition, I would ask for your understanding and support, and for us to make a responsible decision today, a responsible decision for the country, a responsible decision for millions of Ukrainians. Unlike previous practices, we today have had a full discussion of this covenant. Once again, I want to stop at the basic parameters of this agreement, for what will Parliament vote? Because it is a conscious and responsible decision, and it is the responsibility of the people of Ukraine to take on what they choose to do. So, first, what do we get today? We're getting a write-off, a concrete write-off of $3.6 billion. These are the debts that this government didn't take, and not this Parliament, these are the debts that have accumulated for 20 years, but these are the debts that we have to pay off. We're writing 3.6 billion dollars out of our debt portfolio. The other one. We're also saving about $5 billion for interest payments that we should have paid for servicing this debt. Four. We're transferring the body's loan for four years. We don't have the money to pay off the body credit now. So for the next four years, we will not pay off our debts. Fifth. We've already restructured the debts of state banks and state companies. I'm talking about the restructuring of Ukreximbank's debts, where our citizens keep their money and where our companies get their loans, so we stabilized Ukreximbank. We have restructured the debts of the State Savings – this is one of the largest banks in the country, where our citizens also keep money and this bank is the basis of the country's financial stability. After this decision, we continue to receive financial support from the International Monetary Fund. This means that if the Ukrainian Parliament, along with the government and the President, will continue to run a loose, complex, not popular today, but right for future reform, then the entire civilized world is standing with us. We will receive funding for financial support and stability of the country. Dear friends! The more we do, the more we get help, and the more we get help. I also want to talk to you, just as openly about that tool, it's very beautifully called. – this is the tool that creditors get in return for today's debt write-off, that they've lost today, that they won't get any extra money today, but in the future they can get something. I don't want there to be a discussion about what someone is hiding. I remember very well when a few years ago, contracts were signed under the khicks that brought 16 billion damages to the country today. And these 16 billion countries didn't pay off the profits. These 16 billion countries have paid off the losses on the loans we've collected, and now they have to pay them back. And so, in that case, if Ukraine goes up, that's true, then our creditors get extra money. Now we have to figure out which parameters will allow creditors to get, let me stress, part of the profit of the national economy, not the loss. Under that condition, if the country’s gross domestic product is $125 billion. Today, the gross domestic product is only $85 billion. Second condition. In that case, if the Ukrainian economy grows more than 3 percent. In particular, if the economy grows from 3 to 4 percent, only this one percent of the growth will allow creditors to get as a bonus 15 percent, part of our income, to which they will share. Because this restructuring allows the country to be successful and rich. Third. If the Ukrainian economy grows more than 4 percent, creditors can get up to 40, clearly defined, 40 percent of the share of the Ukrainian economy. There could be a lot of calculations. We've calculated the basic calculation with our foreign partners. Imagine, there's been a miracle that I really hope for, and the Ukrainian economy will grow by 4 percent over the next 25 years. Do you know what this means to the country? This means that the gross domestic product of Ukraine will be equal to Switzerland and a little less than Saudi Arabia, that is, the United Emirates. The other one. This means that the wages in Ukraine, attention, average earnings in Ukraine are going to be $1 thousand 960 per citizen of the country. I want to pay the creditors part of the country's income if our Ukraine is the very successful economy in the world. The distinguished national MPs in whom I call upon you, we are not simply in a difficult situation but in a very difficult situation. There is no country in the world that has fought against the Russian Federation for the past two decades; there is no country after World War II, if Russia broke the world order, and stole part of our Crimea, our Donetsk and part of our Luhansk; there is no country that would lose 20 percent of the economy. This historic responsibility rested on our shoulders. I'm asking everyone to make a conscious decision. It's probably not the last restructuring. But I know exactly that if this restructuring doesn't take place, the future of Ukraine and the financial system isn't just threatened, it's a financial collapse that we don't have the right to allow, we're like the Ukrainian Parliament, we're like the government, we're like the President and we're like the people who are responsible for the fate of the state. I'm asking you to support Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. I propose a motion for a vote, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the restructuring of government debt and sovereign debt and its partial write-off, registration number 3058, in accordance with the Committee's decision on the basis and in general with the technical and legal rights of the committee. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Vote. [[12:42:27]] For 309 This is a patriotic position, my friends. Bravo! 309 National MPs. Dear colleagues of the National Deputies (registration No. 3057) the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets. The committee's proposal is to accept as a basis and as a whole with the technical and legal rights of the committee. 3057 please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[12:43:07]] For 307 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Well done! 3059 draft law, taking into account the committee's decision to take the basis and overall, taking into account the committee's proposals. 3059, please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[12:43:39]] For 308. The law has been passed. Draft Regulation on Financial Stability in the implementation of the International Monetary Fund Mechanism (3056) programme on the basis of and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals, please vote. Take it as a basis and, in general, taking into account the committee's proposals, in the committee's drafting, with technical legal rights, please vote. [[12:44:08]] For 309 Decision taken. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the draft Act (registration number 3060) has been introduced to your vote, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (registration of living minimum and minimum wage). I'll bet you I'll take it as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote 3060. [[12:44:46]] For 340. The law's been passed. Congratulations, this is the victory of Ukraine, dear friends. If you don't mind, a few words. Over 300 votes is an extremely responsible decision. This suggests that this Parliament can do the right things for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain seated! I didn't want to say it before the vote, and now I want to say it. The Ukrainian Parliament has just demonstrated to the coalition government, all the deputies, all the factions and groups that we are trusted partners of the government. And we are always ready to listen to criticism, including when it comes to something that is not being approved by Parliament. But I would like to ask the ministers once again to make the quality of committee work a new quality. And then we'll be real partners. And one more thing, colleagues. If anyone knows in this room how to restructure debts better than this is done by the government right now, I'm willing to sign shipping orders in any warehouse in any country, at any level, so that you can have successful negotiations and make the best decisions in this House of Parliament. And then we'll support them, too. Dear colleagues, one minute! We're working on it, stay in our seats, we've got two more personnel issues. Please take your seats. Places, places, places. Colleagues, you and I have been looking at the draft Order for the resignation of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine of Voschevsky. You and I were looking at an application for the resignation of the Minister of Health of Kwiatashvili. He was not in Ukraine, he is now there, and he is also ready to address the Ukrainian Parliament. That's why I'm asking, dear colleagues, everyone to take their seats, the national MPs. And I'm betting on the vote, colleagues. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? The previously discussed draft decree on the resignation of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Vashchevsky Valerija Mikolaiovich, distinguished colleagues. Ready to vote? This decision was discussed earlier. Colleagues, I vote 3087 for the resignation of Vashchevsky from the post of Deputy Prime Minister at his own request. Vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:47:42]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the present Minister of Health, Kwiatashvili, is present. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask for Alexander Kwiatashvili, Minister of Health. Please, three minutes. We are considering a draft decree on the release of Kvetashvili O. from the position of minister of health. Please, Alexander Kwiatschvili. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u151	Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! You know, on 2 July this year, I wrote a request to resign, although this decision has not yet been made. I have worked as hard as I can for the past two months to ensure that the factor of my resignation does not interfere, but on the contrary, it has helped to resolve the question of voting for a package of bills that our Government has put to Parliament, but unfortunately this has not produced any results. Yesterday was an absolutely shameful meeting of the Health Committee. The competence of the people who run this committee is simply catastrophic. There is no elemental understanding of change, there is no important change. I can tell you that, yesterday, bills that were supported by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund were rejected, and the alternative bill that was passed by the people's MP Musia, who had no support, was sent to work on. This is the cynical scenario that has been developed for the third time, in principle, on this committee. I did everything I could. The plans we had, we've already started and completed without any purchase excesses, for the first time in the country's history, local procurement. We're already starting international. That's 2.5 billion bracelets that will go through international organizations. I didn't come here to hold the chair. I didn't come here to make a career. And I see that I just can't work with this committee, I just can't work. So please make a decision based on what I said. Although I am ready to serve Ukraine, I am a patriot of our country, just like you. And in any form, I will always support Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Your Honor. So let's think about it this way. Three questions a minute. Recording. Well, I see hands from different factions. Please, three questions per minute, please. Alexander Kwiatschvili's answer, and then we vote. Please write down, three questions and. Please sign up. I will give my word to those who are the first three written down, and they will be able to ask questions. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! I received a letter yesterday from a woman who writes that she needs 1,800 dollars a month, no money. She writes what I have to do, what I have to drink so I don't wake up in the morning. Now let's read that we have 4 million, more than 4 million people have not received the cure. Why are you applauding? Who will be responsible for people dying in the country today? No basic security. So I don't think there's any need to ask questions today. And I think it's not a problem for the minister, it's a problem for the government and the whole state to view health. People just die. We need to take immediate action, says Oleg Lazko, a radical action.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u154	Please. Fellows, don't turn into a mess. Three questions. Please, Ednak. Ostap Ednak. Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Minister! First of all, when we appointed you to this position, I asked you at your meeting whether you would remain Ukrainian, in Ukrainian citizenship, to your end, physically. Then you gave the word that you would stay, and from your speech I realized that you were Ukrainian. Thank you for that. Because it really bothered me. The second question. You haven't really been able to form your team. We know the number of substitutes. And you had internal conflicts with your intercessors. And maybe that's why it wasn't demonstrated and the efficiency that we were all really counting on. And the third is an appeal to the distinguished Prime Minister. Arseny Petrovich! Arsenius Petrovich, we ask that the Minister of Health be nominated as soon as possible to be discussed and consulted with public organizations, with patient organizations, this ministry cannot be without a minister. So that's what you want. Good luck. To continue to consult and develop this field. And the Prime Minister is honored.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u157	Please ask the third question, Mosiyczuk. One minute. And then a minute from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u158	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. We were given a brochure to deal with delays in public health procurement. Are you prepared to contact the Attorney General's Office for his subordinates who delayed these purchases, leading to the deaths of Ukrainians? Why did the hospital close and close when you were a minister? In particular, it is now planned to close down the Dolbonov Railway Hospital in the Plains region, and doctors are being thrown into the streets. It's a violation of the Constitution. On what basis?Oh, my God! Are you and your deputies willing to take personal responsibility, including criminal responsibility, for everything that happened in the Ministry during your time as minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u159	Alexander, one minute, one more question. Please ask me, Olga the Mantis of the Committee, a minute. And then two minutes to answer and we vote. Please take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u160	Dear National Deputies! As early as April, the work of the Ministry of Health was considered unsatisfactory by the Health Committee. The Ministry of Health has not assigned a medical security officer to the ATO area. The provision of vaccines in Ukraine is 17 percent. It's about reform. One law has been passed on to the Health Committee, which makes it possible for the entire state system of medical institutions to go bankrupt. And the Health Committee believes that not only the Minister of Health but also the Prime Minister do not have a vision of the health strategy. Because the Prime Minister's decree was to cancel the reference prices and increase the price of medicines in pharmacies, which we find absolutely unacceptable. So, Your Honor, I ask you to vote in favour of the release of the Minister of Health by transferring cases to the Attorney-General's Office for the conduct of public procurement last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u161	Colleagues. Please, two minutes, Alexander Kwiatschvili. Please take your seats, fellow nationals! Have you told everyone yet? Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u162	Please take a look at the year in this report. Whatever you say, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u163	Come on, that's not a question-answer on a permanent basis. There's a question, what year is it? All right, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u164	Thank you. I didn't just have that, so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u165	Please, Oleg Berezuk, a minute away from the faction. Yegor Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u166	Mr. Minister, we have discussed your work and its bad results with you on several occasions. I think it would be nice if you called the names of the people who prevented you from buying drugs through foreign companies in the area of our medical mafia, who prevented you from reforming our health system, which is a system of corruption and devouring national money, and the people who abandoned you from this medical mafia one by one. What are your names so that the next minister of health doesn't fall victim to the same tools? This is very important to Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u167	Colleagues, 2864 Project Order on the Liberation of Kvetashvili as Minister of Health Please vote. It'll be the minister's closing statement, he'll say. Do I get it right? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, please. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u168	I don't know what to tell you, I just don't understand the situation. For the first time in Parliament, I don't understand what's going on. I resigned. You want to go to the Attorney General's office? Please. You want to go there, I don't know, FSB? Please. Who wants what they want. I'm not going anywhere, I'm here, I'm going to be responsible for everything. And let those who also worked in the ministry last year, in the past year, answer. When you're talking about a lack of medication. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whoever you want. Please, I don't care. You'll see how they bought vaccines, how much money did they make? How much money was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u169	Thank you, Minister. 2864, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 2864, decree on behalf of the Minister of Health, please vote. Vote. What are you doing? Vote. In the closing word, he'll tell his family. [[13:00:29]] For-170. [[The voice from the hall. Let him speak to his family. Don't hide the Mafia. Talk, talk, turn on the minister's microphone.]] Let him talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u170	I'll turn on his microphone, please, colleagues. One minute. I ask you, calm down, colleagues, calm down! Yuri Lucenko. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. I'll give you a final word for one more minute. Don't make a mess. They'll tell you who the mob is. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Please take your seats for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u171	I need 20 seconds. The health reform has been halted by the Health Committee, which supported it yesterday. Only two people have supported "for", several have abstained, and Mr. Musi, Mrs. Bogholec, Mrs. Korczynska, Ms. Bachtejeev, Mr. Shurma, Mr. Shipko opposed. That's your last name. What kind of mob is that? Mafia, it's simple. It's just a dead end to reform. Please, Mr. Jarinich and Mrs. Sisoenko supported it. Here are your names.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u172	Thank you. Yuri Lucenko, please give me a minute and let's finish. Don't turn into a mess. We invite the individual minister to the committee, he'll tell you everything, the committee to Jegor Soboljeva is anti-corruption, and we'll publish this information, we'll provide direct broadcasts, and everything will be fine. Yuri Lucenko, please. And take your places to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u173	National MPs! Dear Mr. Secretary! I would like to remind you that medical reform in the form of laws can be supported or suppressed, not on the committee, but here. So if you took it not a month ago, but last year, as you were required, the Supreme Council would have supported it. But right now they're asking you to name the mob you're talking about on all televisions. Please announce the names of those who are guilty of not buying, at high prices, in the collapse of the health system. Or leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u174	Question, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u175	All cases that have been purchased at excessive prices are in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I can, I don't have this material right now, but I can tell you those firms, one of which is everybody's famous Vector Farm, who took 52 million to buy AIDS drugs and counted only 10 percent. I don't know whose it is, you should know. How do I know what you think I'm talking about? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, one second, that's just one example. Last year, procurement took place in December 2014, last year. By the end of the year, quick and quick, and this noise was done. I can tell you all about it. There's even this kind of report, but not this team, but there's another report that tells us how these schemes work. And as he was there, Shabunin, his organization wrote about it, it's accessible everywhere. So asking me what the diagrams were doing in Ukraine 2014, 2013, 2012 is just not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u176	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u177	Account for legal claims. Regrettably, in Ukraine, a well-established system of health financing could not be launched without a change of laws. To change the system and write a new law, it was in six of the seven laws, including the Economic Code. And these laws were written by a large group of people, including lawyers. and international experts, and of course local experts. That's why they were ready in April. I'm very sorry that the bureaucracy system is built in the country. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. I'm just asking. did not allow it to be carried until July. They were already on the committee in July. I couldn't stand them without them. And now we can do that, too, but the committee went against it. So what do I do? Two months of committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Minister. I'll give it to everyone they call. But listen, I want to tell you that the next question is the formation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office. And I'm asking everyone to take this very seriously, because we have to form an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, not just talk about it. And you don't have to set a precedent for making a mess in the hall right now. I would like to stress once again: there is a statement by the minister of Kvetashvili. He spoke, asked questions. 2864. I'm putting in a release order according to the application. Please vote, and then everyone who is named will have a word for it. Please vote and please support. Let the man go if that's what he's talking about. She wants to, and she said it. Ask the committee, I'll give you a live broadcast, and you'll discuss it. 2864 votes, and we're looking at the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. And no one leaves the hall. Please vote and please support, 2864, the draft exemption order, as a whole. Vote. [[13:06:13]] For 222 My colleagues, once again, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the release of Minister Kwiatashvili. Please vote. And all deputies take their seats. Please vote. This is his own initiative, please vote and please support your colleagues. I wouldn't want to resign, I wouldn't write a statement. [[13:06:39]] For 216 Colleagues! Colleagues! Once again, I stress that we are considering a voluntary resignation application. I'm asking you again to take a responsible approach. Oleg Romanovich, I ask you to take this seriously. Please, colleagues, 2864 is the satisfaction of applying for the resignation of Kvetashvili, the ruling. Please vote. The best word is voting. If you want, you can reassign a man to your post. [[13:07:24]] For the 220. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, we turn to the appointment of the Supreme Council as a commission for a job competition. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3021, Honorable Colleagues, 3021, please, Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you now in the hall of silence. We have huge anti-corruption bills. Without launching those anti-corruption laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please pay attention! Now it's easier to call it a break, and we're gonna waste a few hours. We have two impeccable drafts of post-corruption, without which we will not be able to launch the entire anti-corruption system that this Parliament has been implementing for about a year. And so I'm asking very much now not to stop the work of our session, to continue it, so that for an hour these two two two two two-way, stressing, ambitious bills (3021, draft Ordinance on the Designation of a Candidate to a Competition Commission for the Selection and Employment of Members of the National Anti-Corruption Agency) we could consider. I call the deputies to account. We have many days to work. I very much ask the deputies to remain in their places of employment. When we discuss the matter, we will be able to speak and express our thoughts. So, dear fellows, I ask all of you to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u180	Please, Oksana Korchinska, one minute. Calm down, please! Anti-corruption must be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, today is an important time for health care. For us, all the people who have spent years in hospitals, and for me as the head of the board of trustees and for the head of the country's largest volunteer group, it is important that the people who are now responsible here: Mr. Health Minister and his first representative of health care, not be released at their own request, but be released directly to us, to Parliament, for unworthy work on behalf of the country. On May 19, 67 deputies filed a complaint with the Prime Minister. There was an intercom, 10 ministries were on the commission. All charges against MPs have been fully confirmed: blocking drug purchases, blocking wholesale prices, which has led to the country's hospitals not being able to buy drugs for the country for months; blocking tenders, international purchases. This was directly directed by the first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u182	The replica will take a minute. I gave you a minute. 20 seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u183	This was directly led by Mrs. Pavlovenko, the first deputy. These people need to be taken out of office. The committee failed to privatize the health system yesterday. We're going to work on the reform, but right now, it's fundamental to get these people out of office, not so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're working on it. I propose to begin the discussion. I'll make this offer. I understand you're offended. I think we can start talking about the anti-corruption prosecutor's office in the next hour. We'll talk about it, and then we'll pick it up after four o'clock. Is that an option?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u185	Thank you. So, the respectable colleagues, the emotions in the room are asleep, and we move on to the next question in our order of the day. On the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a commission to hold an administrative competition in the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I would like to remind you that this issue has a special order of consideration that does not provide for a reduced procedure. This procedure provides for a full discussion, and that's why we're about to start talking. If we don't finish it by lunchtime at two o'clock, we can vote after the break. But in order to begin our consideration, we need to begin our consideration of the matter. So in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, the Office of the Special Anti-Corruption Procurator-General of Ukraine is appointed to the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the results of the open competition. The competition is organized and conducted by a competition commission composed of 11 individuals, 7 of whom are designated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me remind you, we had a long discussion in the conference room about the ratio of those proposed by the Supreme Council and the number of prosecutions offered. As a result of this discussion, it was determined that 7 persons were from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committees accordingly submitted theirs. The factions submitted their proposals, and the committee considered them. I want to stress again, without this competitive commission, we will not be able to select the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, and we will not be able to launch an anti-corruption system in our state. So on this issue, I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on the law enforcement of Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your view is very important and essential for the quality and professional work of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau on the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the commission to conduct an administrative competition in a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office. As Mr. Parubai has already said, in fact, part two of article 8-1 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, this is all provided for, and seven persons appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to enter the appropriate competition commission. To carry out the relevant tasks of the Head of Parliament, within the competence of the Committee, September 2 and 16, these issues were addressed. On September 2, an organizational question was considered regarding the formation of a commission. By September 14, all factions and groups had to submit their proposals to the committee. On September 16, the committee considered appropriate proposals from the MPs and the candidature groups. Thus, a committee of MPs and groups was asked to apply for 14 candidates to a competition commission. The committee considered that the national deputies had the opportunity to communicate with them and to ask questions. In view of the fact that it is the Supreme Council that is delegateing its representatives to a competitive commission, the committee has taken a decision and prepared an appropriate submission for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the proposed candidates by way of a rating vote. As a result, a successful vote from appointed persons was taken by a commission to hold an administrative competition in a specialized anticorruption prosecutor’s office. In particular, the next 14 candidates are proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from which the Supreme Council is to appoint only 7. This is: Voloch Karl Maksimovich, Gorbak Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Demenko Anatoli Grigorovich, Jovania Kessler, Dzier Jaroslava Bogdanovna, Levchenko Katerina Borissovna, Mary Butler, Niskuk Evgen Mikolaiovich, Rabinovich Vadim Zinovovich, Filenko Vladimir Pilipovich, Shabunin Vitaliy Viktorovich, Shalaiy Olexy Stepanovich, Šishkin Viktor Ivanovich and Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Considering that the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act and the Act on the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure do not contain a clear procedure for the conduct of the rating vote, the Committee has developed, agreed with the Supreme Court of Justice, approved at its meeting the procedure for the selection of candidates for the commission for the appointment of administrative posts in the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office. I appeal to you, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, to follow the proposed regulation committee. It's important. I can read it. What is proposed? It is proposed that candidates be represented on the committee. Colleagues, the next regulation is proposed. Presentation of candidates can be determined in 20 minutes. From factions and groups, give 25 minutes of opportunity as well. And the vote on the submission, after that, of the Order on the appointment of seven candidates from the Supreme Council to this commission. Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u187	Thank you. So, the respectable society, there's a proposed way of dealing with this issue, which I've read already, I'll remind you once again. That's what it's all about. Mr. Andrey, Mr. Andrey, I'm going to read a proposal from the Apparatus on this issue. A report by the chairman of the committee that has just taken place. The second point is statements by MPs, for factions were the object of the exaltation so that they could reason on their position and why they were sending them out. The third position is to give 3 minutes to each faction, and together, it's going to be 25 minutes. The third question is that we already have a rating vote. The fourth position for those candidates who have obtained the largest number of votes should be to approve each of the 226 votes separately, or the votes required for the decision to be taken. Is there agreement with such a proposal, with such a rule of procedure? Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to take your seats so that we can adopt the rules of procedure. Thank you. I mean, if there's no objection to this rule of procedure, we're currently recording factions and groups about statements and representations from factions. So, I'm asking all the factions and groups to do the recording and sign up for the performance, please. Hence, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u188	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues of the national MPs, certainly electing any there or anti-corruption prosecutors, or members of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, or other authorized persons to fight corruption, is an important process. But no matter how many we choose, we will never overcome corruption unless the system of power is changed. Here we have just considered the question of the resignation of the minister of health. He's asked about the whole hall, the name of the mafia, the pharmaceutical mafia, who's blocking the purchase, who's selling people drugs three times or four times as much as they're in neighbouring Poland? We do not hear answers from the minister of health because he simply wants to follow his own desires. And the fact that people die from the absence of drugs is that we're out-medicated on several occasions, it doesn't matter to them. He is another corrupter in the cabinet of Energy Minister Demchisin, who pays billions of dollars to the Russian business and buys coal in Russia and destroys his own coal energy and destroys his own energy industry. And no matter how much you and I choose prosecutors here, Demchisin is the Energy Minister. Why? And because it's broken because it's hiding the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, and the Russian oligarch Grigoroshin is President Poshenko's business partner. And President Poroshenko is going to talk about representing members of the Anti-Corruption Bureau about fighting corruption, and they're telling international partners about fighting corruption. Start this fight against corruption against energy corruption, release Demchikin from the position of energy minister for the beginning of corruption. Stop corruption in the President's Office when the deputy head of the President's Administration of Philatew calls the judges into his office and gives them teams how to vote and make decisions on one or the other. In particular, the Naftogas mining case, where President Poroshenko was once a co-owner, and now, using his presidential powers to abuse this case by giving illegal commands, more specifically, by means of the courts. Read the illustrations of the former head of the Court of Appeal of Chernushenko, where he made it clear how Dustenko called him, what teams he gave, what decisions he made. So let's not fool the people with corruption, but start fighting corruption with power. Corruption in Ukraine today goes to Ukraine from the presidential office to the energy minister’s office to the health minister’s office and to the judges, prosecutors, and so forth, who carry out the illegal commands of President Dustenk. That's why the Radical Party registered the draft decree for the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the corruption of the Dustenk. It requires the adoption of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u189	Thank you. From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich gives the word Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u190	I want to remind you what the anti-corruption prosecutor's idea is. Our Attorney General’s Office, including the sabotage of many deputies, continues to lead corruption. The idea of creating a National Anti-Corruption Bureau and an independent anti-corruption prosecutor's office is to create a place where real investigators, real prosecutors can be gathered to start arresting corrupt people starting with the leadership of the Attorney General's Office. The law allows for the selection of a real anti-corruption prosecutor, he says, gather an independent commission that will choose a person regardless of politics and regardless of corruption. The Self-Help faction is delegating to this committee Vitali Shabunin, the head of a public organization, the Anti-Corruption Centre, which is not to be represented in this room. At the same time, we would like to look to other political forces, colleagues, when we see from your suggestions, with all due respect to my friend Eugene Oneschuku, the actor. When we see MPs, when we see people who are far from the light of the fight against corruption and the darkness of its creation. We're actually helping Victor Shokin appoint an anti-corruption prosecutor to be his dealer. Victor Shokin has already delegated four high-ranking corruption officials from the Attorney General's Office to this commission to elect an anti-corruption prosecutor. He's got two weak, two inexperienced, two unscrupulous people, and he's got a majority on this committee. And he's going to appoint Artem Pshonka, the diamond prosecutor he wants, the person who will lose the very idea of the anti-corruption prosecution and make it impossible for the detectives of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. So when we raise Vitali Shabunin, we ask all other colleagues to do the same. Let us delegate the results of people who are known by all societies that are not owned by anyone. Let them choose the real anti-corruption prosecutor and then the Anti-Corruption Bureau will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u191	Thank you very much. From. Now it's "Fatherhood" written down for me. "The Opposition Block." Now it's Fatherland, then it's Opposition Block. John Krulko’s word is given to Andrew Kožemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this is a very important, very important issue for the quality and professional work of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the appointment of members of the Supreme Council as part of the competition for administrative positions in the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office. I would like to remind my colleagues here that in such an editorial manner, when we found compromise in the Supreme Council, we voted in favour of amendments to the Prosecutor's Office Act. And this is the compromise that allows today not to stand in one place, but to move on and carry out reforms and prosecutors, and to put order among those officials who are currently engaged in corruption. I fully support Jehora Sobolev, and I think we need to move forward, despite sometimes the names we don't agree with, but we adopt such laws, and we set such rules, so we'll play by these rules. Fatherschina suggests, has made a proposal to be included in the commission for the competition for administrative positions in the specialized anti-corruption offices of Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich, he is present. Šishkin Viktor Ivanovich is a well-known Ukrainian actor, judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, national deputy of Ukraine for the first, second, third call. While in the working group of Ukrainian National Deputies to draft the Constitution of Ukraine, he made a number of important proposals that were taken into account regarding the principles of the distribution of power in Ukraine, for which he received the title of a well-deserved lawyer in Ukraine. Viktor Ivanovich is a recognized authority in the field of legislation and the rule of law, a man's experience in strengthening democracy and upholding the rule of law. At the dawn of independence, Ukraine was the Attorney General and made a significant personal contribution to the creation of the legal system of our state and the observance of the rule of law. A true public adviser to justice, a candidate for legal science, author of over a hundred scientific papers and questions of state law and administration. I ask you, Your Honor, to support Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich's candidacy to include him in the Commission's competition for administrative posts in specialized anti-corruption prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u193	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Papiev Mikhailo Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u194	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Today we have a very important question. And I'm drawing the attention of the Ukrainian people's deputies, as it sounds. It sounds like the appointment of representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's going to be such a maturity test for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So today we're not assigning coalition representatives, not majority representatives, but we're going to appoint representatives of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I would ask, irrespective of the sympathy, that this committee be represented as representatives of factions belonging to the coalition, as well as representatives of non-fractional national MPs, as well as representatives of the opposition. From the Opposition Block, we have nominated Rabbinicz Vadim Zinovovich. I very much ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this candidature, and this commission of ours to represent the entire spectrum of the political forces of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then she'll be trusted. And there's more. I draw the attention of all Ukrainian national deputies to what took place in the Supreme Council in its consideration of the previous issue. You know, I've seen a lot of hearings from ministers of government, different governments of Ukraine. But I have never heard such an improper attitude toward the Ukrainian national deputies. You know, as long as we don't have respect for ourselves, we won't have respect for others until then. And first of all, if the government is under control and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and when the minister is acting not even unfairly, unethically, but is acting in a hammish, he has to be released from office not at his own request, he has been released on an adjective article to be taken away by the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Such things cannot be forgiven. Housekeeping in the Supreme Council of Ukraine must be punished. Dear colleagues, I would very much like you to support the commission on this important issue our candidate, Rabbinic Vadim Zinovovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u195	Olga Cervakova is speaking to Sergey Leschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, corruption remains the main problem of Ukrainian society after Maidan. Recently, the International Republican Institute published figures that impressed me and many who saw them. It turns out that Ukrainian citizens believe that Yanukovich’s regime was fighting corruption better than today’s authorities. That's what 51 percent of citizens think. These figures are a very disturbing call to all of us, for the people in their anger will not discern: who were in opposition, who was in power; who ate the earth in the rostrum; and who jumped at the rostrum. People demand that corrupters be sent to prison. In order to combat high - ranking corruption, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau has been established to persecute high - ranking corrupters. But in order for this Bureau to work effectively, it needs the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and it's a special prosecutor who's going to support the charges in court. To that end, we passed the law on the previous session. There were violent battalions here, and we were able to stand down so that Parliament could bring seven candidates to this nomination committee. And today we're going to choose these seven names. To my conviction, to the conviction of our faction, there must be a representative of Western structures, structures that trust Ukraine today, which provide enormous financial support, which have come to the fore at the critical moment of financial storms. And today these organizations are to be represented at the bureau, on the board of anti-corruption prosecutors. In particular, you will be offered the nominations of Joan Kessler, who already has the experience of selecting the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as the candidate Mary Butler, who works in the asset confiscation and money-laundering department of the Ministry of Justice, is also an extremely experienced person who worked at the Kenyan Embassy of the United States. It is also important that civil society representatives, including journalists and public activists, who have been investigating corruption for many years, publish articles on this subject. In particular, Vitaly Shabunin, head of the Anti-Corruption Centre. The center that exposed corruption in the same Ministry of Health, which had just been very heated debates. There's also Alexei Shalaiski, a man who's been leading the "Our Money" website for years, who specializes in detecting abuses in public procurement. Victor Shishikin, former Henprocuror and the Constitutional Court will be nominated. A person who has his own position on many issues, the principle of a person who has experience in the detection of crimes, as well as in legal practice. It's important that these people get on this committee. And of course, it is important that people who voted in favour of the thieving laws of January 16 or who supported the authoritarian power of the past do not go there. Thank you for your attention. And I look forward to a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u197	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, Anton Heratchenko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The People's Front Group is proposing five candidates to a commission to select an anti-corruption prosecutor. First of all, this is Mary Butler, deputy head of asset confiscation and money-laundering, U.S. Department of Justice. This is Giovanni Kessler, CEO of the European administration in the fight against fraud. These are the people who have helped us to choose the head of the Anticorruption Bureau, and they are known in Ukraine as examples of virtue and dignity. It's also Shalai Olexy Stepanovich, director of the community organization Our Money. A well - known person who helps to fight corruption He is also a public activist, a specialist in cleaning up the government of Volah Karl Maximovich, a cofounder of the public illustrative committee. And Philenko Vladimir Pilipovich, Counsellor of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a multi-year national deputy of Ukraine, is one of those who voted for the independence of our country. We propose in the course of the rating vote to join the candidates and select the best people to choose an honest anti-corruption prosecutor to help fight corruption in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u199	Thank you very much. The "Rebirth" faction is invited to the Saints. Please. Groups. Excuse me, MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Indeed, representatives of all factions and parliamentary groups, both coalition and opposition, must be part of this commission. "The Rebirth Party" is in opposition. I mean, we're not in the coalition. And we are delegating to this commission a member of our deputy group, Yacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine made three calls. He has a legal education, a doctor of economic science, and he works on a professional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u201	Thank you. The word “Juriu Lewchenka ” is given from nonfractionals. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko. The whole country is asking for your word. Please, from the non-fractional Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u202	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would now like to address, first of all, the Ukrainian people, the people who are listening and looking at us right now. Regrettably, when draft laws were considered this morning for the country, they gave no opportunity to speak. Regrettably, as well as this issue that we are currently considering, the issues have been completely addressed with the total violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Even though Speaker Groysman has repeatedly stated that, well, the new era of the Supreme Council is beginning, which is what this September will be, the rules will be followed. But as before, when it's inconvenient for the authorities, when it's unsuitable for the regime, then the regulations are not followed, even though it's the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'd like to go back to people. People are good, think about why some things are done "in the dark" in violation of basic procedures that are easy to follow: procedures for full discussion, procedures for first and second reading, procedures even for showing the document. Now, there's a very important question about the creation of a commission that will elect an anti-corruption prosecutor, but in fact, a document with these names is not given to the deputies. Last night, again, when I checked it on a special night, last night, there was no document on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it wasn't in the agenda. But now, it's all being considered, now they're trying again quickly, even though there's not half of the room right now, they're trying to explain the process somehow. We don't have a last name yet. So, nevertheless, I would like the Ukrainian people to understand that the regime and the majority of them who are absolutely pausing and absolutely destroying the internal rules of Parliament can't do anything good for the country. Today, a 40 - year - old financial cabal, led by Mrs. Jaresko, who has worked for 20 years in the financial sector, has been voted in breach of the regulation, and has thus far received huge revenue from those investment companies, which is a multimillionaire. And they voted without real discussion, they voted quickly in the first reading, and in general, despite the fact that the national MPs demanded a second reading. Now they're also trying to accept people who will choose an anti-corruption prosecutor even though these names weren't given in advance. I call and I call, and I demand to the Head of the Supreme Council, who, unfortunately, is not present at this time in the Presidium to finally implement the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, may then be in compliance with other laws in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-17-m0.u203	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I would like to acknowledge to everyone that I was one of those who insisted that this law be considered today, not later. Although it was really only yesterday that the committee took place and it was only yesterday that the decision was made. We could wait 10 days from the committee meeting and we could delay the creation of only an anti-corruption prosecutor for two or three weeks. We could postpone the election of a special anti-corruption prosecutor for a few months and talk about a regime that does not fight corruption. I was the one who insisted that we not wait for two or three weeks to consider the matter. I was the one who insisted that this issue should be considered today, because it carries a huge weight, I emphasize, that question closes one of the impeccable links in the anti-corruption system, the legislative acts that this Supreme Council has adopted despite all the criticism, despite the negative that it speaks of the Supreme Council and the fact that it does not work enough. We've worked out the best anti-corruption package of laws throughout the independence of the Ukrainian state. And that's what we need to talk about, and it needs to be mentioned, not just about regimes, about clans, and everything else. Now, this long-term job, which was going to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, where today public officials, I stress public officials, are taking out prosecutors who are going to show up tomorrow as well as the new police, there are going to be new detectives who will have no jobs, no jobs, no money, they'll be completely confident of their rights and actions, and we'll see how corrupt people are going to sit down. But it is impossible to make this work of the Anti-Corruption Office complex unless a special anti-corruption prosecutor is elected. And that's why not electing a special prosecutor today, dragging this issue back for a few weeks is a drag on the systematic fight against corruption. So I'm sure we can't ask these questions, we have to take these questions faster. Unfortunately, it is very rare when there are enough votes in the room. Now, according to the procedure, we go completely according to the Rules, we follow the full procedure. The chairman of the committee also spoke, all representatives of the factions spoke and even nonfractional. Dear colleagues, the next step should be, listen to me carefully, the next step we have is candidates and there should be a vote on each candidate. Then, after we've chosen seven of the highest ratings in this rating vote, we have to have another vote to get each of those candidates to win or not get 226 votes. Only after the final vote of 226 will we know that the candidate from the Supreme Council is approved. There are 11 people on board, 7 from the Supreme Council, 4 from the Henprocuratorate. If we don't select our seven candidates, according to the law, four candidates from the prosecutor's office can make their own decisions without those seven. That is why a great responsibility lies before us. The candidates are only 14 different people. And I called, as Igor Sobolev, on political parties to put on this competitive committee not their party activists, not their political counterparts, to put out authoritative, independent, public figures who are experts in the fight against corruption. So no one would suspect that either the authorities or anyone else would want to find mechanisms of influence and control over a special anti-corruption prosecutor. And I'd like to say that almost all the factions, except one that put a fellow MP on the road, went that way, right and only possible, put out public figures who were known for their struggle against corruption. What's more, I want to thank the People's Front for putting out international spark plugs to fight corruption. Like Mary Butler, deputy head of asset confiscation and money laundering in the U.S. Department of Justice. A person with international experience, international authority in this scheme. In those areas. Jovanie Kessler, CEO of the European Anti-Fraud Office, the international authority that will give both authority to our commission, and no one will suspect that these people can be influenced by anyone, any of the officials can influence the anti-corruption sphere. We're going to finish these processes. We're going to create a commission, we're going to select a special prosecutor, and we're going to make a system to fight corruption in our country to destroy it at all levels, corruption that has eaten through the body of Ukrainian society today. This requires discipline, which requires quick and firm decisions. And I'm sure that these processes that we're doing are irreversible, and we can get them to a logical conclusion. I'd like to consult you, colleagues, on a case-by-case basis. It is not a secret that many of our colleagues, due to the fact that there were no 12 - hour breaks, broke up. I have a suggestion that within the next two hours of the break foreseen by the Rules, all those who have not been able to get acquainted with those candidates who are offered could get to know each other because they complain that they do not know each other. Open the site, I'll give you, Mr. Yuri, come on, I'll give you. We were able to get to know these people. Make informed decisions. We have to select 7 candidates out of 14, the vote will be a rating, and there will be a responsible vote. I'd like to ask everyone, first of all, to use these two hours to make a personal decision on the factions of the person who supports those candidates. And secondly, it's extremely important to mobilise our entire constituency, so that at two o'clock the hall will be overcrowded, as it was in the morning, so that we can conduct a full vote and complete the procedure for selecting a commission for a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor. I strongly urge responsibility. I strongly urge that we meet at 16 hours and be ready to make important responsible decisions. I now declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And once again, I urge everyone to be in the workplace at 4:00 to continue our work. Thank you.
