ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We're starting our morning session. Please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall to register and start our work. Please prepare to register. Turn on the council system to register the national MPs in the Supreme Council Hall. [[10:04:10]] 269 national deputies in the hall. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that there's a very good event going on in the towers of the Supreme Council. This is about supporting rural libraries, book foundations. I would ask MPs who care about the subject of bookkeeping, support for rural libraries and libraries as a whole, if possible, to participate in this action, to support it. I think it's going to be a very important contribution to supporting libraries in Ukraine. In particular, I would like to welcome, on your behalf and personally from me, the birthday of our colleague of the national MP, Alexander Leonidovich Shevchenk. Let's welcome him. He's not in the hall, but I think he's feeling our support and our welcome. Dear fellow national MPs! According to Wednesday's regulations, we have 30 minutes of speeches by national deputies. And before we start recording from the Supreme Council's rostrum, I very much ask the Ukrainian people's deputies to focus on work, take their seats, put off their cell phones. Smile, says Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, I fully support her. And today it's good to work in a working environment. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I would like you to write it down, because the right to speak will only be given after the record. Please log in. Please, Yuri Derevyanko, Ukraine’s nonfractional national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, a respected people of Ukraine. My colleagues and I from the political party "Will" have introduced to Parliament a bill of 2573 on the strategy of the oligarchisation of Ukraine for five years. This is the first document that is meant to mean our political intention to start an effective fight against such an phenomenon as oligarchy. And this document is to be accepted by the Supreme Council as the political intention of the legislature to fight and get rid of the oligarhat. Over the years of independence, the state has received only 63 billion dollars from some 30,000 privatized enterprises. At the same time, only the official assets of the 10th Ukrainian oligarchs amount to over 600 billion dollars. This document, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, introduces Ukrainian legislation the term oligarch. This is the person who has an influence on the political power that is over-enriched by the use of monopolistic markets in the economic sectors that have been taken over by the use of corrupt administrative resources. It continues to exploit the entire Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian economy. The Will Party believes that there is going to be a deligarchisation of power and economics in Ukraine. We propose concrete steps that are outlined in the strategy. And these steps are the deligarchization of power and the deligarchization of the economy, namely, the deligarchization of power. First. The separation of oligarchs from the electoral process. This is the introduction of direct state funding for the activities of political parties. The other one. This is transparent party funding. The ban on the body and the outside advertising of political parties. Choices by proportional open lists. The other one. This is the separation of the oligarchs from the influence on Parliament. Adopt the Lobby Law. To prohibit the taking of leading positions in Parliament and other bodies of individuals associated with oligarchs. Political responsibility due to the ability of voters to call off MPs. Third. The oligarchs must be removed from the influence of the executive authorities. The ban on connected persons from taking office in ministries, regulators ’ commissions, public enterprises, and other executive authorities. The National Anticorruption Bureau keeps a register of oligarchs and associated individuals and legal entities. Steps by deligarchization of the economy. Demonstrating the market and creating economic competition. Take the head of the Antimonopoly Committee in the open market and renew the warehouse and reform it. To predict that a monopoly is determined by the position of the owner if there is more than 20 percent. The other one. Provide a transparent mechanism for the use of state property. Third. Solve the issue of State damages for privatizing objects at improperly reduced prices. Dear colleagues, we must take decisive steps to combat the oligarchy. And that's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u3	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the President has taken decisive steps to combat the oligarchy. And we must, as a parliament, say that we have the only way to change Ukraine is to take real steps to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u5	Please, Victoria Bird, Self-Help. Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a term in medicine that's always ignored, but then everyone's struggling with the disease -- prevention. I'd like to describe this as prevention. Our actions with you, which are not very quality, are not entirely relevant in the area of decentralization of the country, such as budgetary centralization, such as the adoption of the Law on Uniting Communities, which makes the communities theoretically very independent in the future, have terrified the central authorities of the country. The opposition and fear of local self - government began. They felt that cities were starting to be economically independent, but that means they would become socially independent. And we have a huge threat of resistance to further decentralization. For the Law on Uniting Communities to work, there must be a powerful Law on Local Self - Rule, an Law on Administrative Reform, and a Law on Local Elections. Dear colleagues, if we don't adopt those laws by the end of May, decentralization is canceled, which means the threat to Ukraine's security, because we're told later that we won't be able to hold the elections. So in order for us not to have night sessions in May, we must understand today that there is a threat to Ukraine’s security because of the failure of decentralization processes, particularly local elections. And the local elections in the old reform are nothing. So the Self-Help faction emphasizes that in future sessions we have to adopt laws that will trigger real decentralization in the country. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, as a supporter of decentralization, we ask you to take the lead now, as I do not like that word, for decentralization in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u7	Since it was a question of decentralization, I want you to know that this is a struggle for proper governance in our country and this is the key to our country's success. Without decentralization, I want to confirm this, without quality local self-government, no reform in the country will be carried out. And I'm convinced that most of the people in this room understand and support this. So we will not stop for one day to create a proper legal basis for real local self - government. And it's a good thing that communities will depend only on their constituents and how economically they develop their territories. So the question of decentralization and local self-government is number one, including in the Constitution of Ukraine, which has already begun. Not one step further, we have to move forward, and it is this year that constitutional changes are to be made with regard to local self-government as well as other regulatory frameworks that will allow for an effective system of governance of the country based on the electoral rights of citizens, citizens have to govern the country, and that is possible only through local self-government. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Chief, dear colleagues, today we will really be able to demonstrate how objective and sincere our Parliament is. Today the Law (0948) on Parliamentary Opposition will be considered. I want to remind you a little bit of the history of this law, because it was adopted more than a year ago, and it was those who today represented the coalition and formed power in Ukraine that insisted on this law. Every rule of this law was torn out by the coalition’s opposition at the time, and then we compromised, and we passed the law in the first reading. I have some questions about the conclusion of the profile committee. The Professional Committee has determined that this law cannot be passed because these norms, i.e. the rights of opposition, should be defined by the separate rules of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure Act. It's cynicism. Because Yuri Miroshnichenko has made appropriate changes to the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was the regulatory committee returned and withdrawn from registration as an alternative to Law 0948. I think such manipulations mean only one thing today, the authorities are afraid of controlling the opposition and controlling the public. And this is despite the fact that the Opposition Act (0948), which will be considered today, received a positive assessment by the Venice Commission. But I can see that here, they say in the people, "Sitpoint determines the image of thinking." And you know, I totally understand the position of today's coalition, which is the whole power: today you're afraid that if we get a real opportunity, that's opposition in Parliament, not just the Opposition Block, but about 100 other Ukrainian national deputies who can benefit from real rights to get real information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u9	My friend, calm down! Prove it. Calm down, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u10	Calm down! Calm down, buddy!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u11	Try it! They haven't tried it once. I'm asking you to add a few seconds that I've calmed down my colleague. Today, you're afraid of the real truth, you're afraid that the Ukrainian national MPs from the opposition bloc, from other political forces that are represented in Parliament and have not entered the coalition, will tell you why tariffs are being raised today, why wages are not being raised, why people's poverty is happening today. Today you must have a real responsibility, and you fear it. It's that everybody's ratings today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u12	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u13	Today you fear both opposition and your own people. And today we will stand to the end in order to protect ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u14	That's it, thank you. Please. Please, National Deputy Gorbunov Alexander Volodymyrovich, People's Front. Anton Gerashchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u15	Yes, Heratchenka. Please pass the word to Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u16	Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u17	Dear Head, respectable Ukrainian people! We have a large friendly faction, see? It was they who circled the rostrum, and it was hard for them to go by themselves to speak. You know, in 1936, General Franco's four colonies invaded Madrid. But General Franco said in an interview with one journalist, "I'm not taking Madrid with four columns, I'm taking it with five. Because the fifth column is in there. Journalists come to me and ask me whether Putin's attack will take place in April or May? I'm telling them, no, he won't be here. You don't need him. Putin realized that the Ukrainian people could not be taken by force. Then he decided to use his cunning and to take him for granted. He picked up a Ukrainian story and saw the Ukrainian people dispersed after Bogdan Hmelnick's death, and he looked at how the NCCD broke the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists into the organization of Bender and the organization of Melnik. That's what Putin's doing right now. The level of discussion raised by Freedom, Yulia Timoshenko's Block and Yulia Vladimirovna himself, by individual freaks from the Poshenko block named Kaplin, is worse than the Odessa Import: "Do you know that Rabbinovich's daughter has a prostitute?" - "He's got two sons!" - "What difference does it make? Let him now justify himself in front of the entire carriage." None of those who accuse the Prime Minister and the Government have even read these financial inspection reports. They state that there is not even a name, a name and a post of Prime Minister. When they claim to be 7.5 billion, stamping their eyes on a talk show, and members of the coalition, they forget to say that more than six billion are the figures that were checked during the 2007 government of Yulia Timoshenko and the time of the Government of Azarov, there are figures at Boyko's heights, all of which were forgotten, there are the figures on the robbery that were reported during the Euro-2012. During the time of the Yatsenuk Government, do you know what number is verified by an inspection? Up to 11 million bracelets are not mentioned anywhere in the name of either the Minister or the Prime Minister. This dirty cynical campaign, which was launched on the order of Putin – Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, the Freedom Party, which took a turn in these elections. And I ask and call upon you all, please join us, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and Freedom with the opposition government. That's not the first time. In 2009, Janukovic was almost reunited, a coalition was not established and, together with the opposition Government, criticise the Government that is trying to get the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u18	Please, National Deputy Ryabchin, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u19	Please pass the word to Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u20	My fellow Members, I think today's Parliament is very good at what's happening with Putin, and what's happening with total corruption, which is further pervasive to the society of the country. And that's why those who try to write Putin's total budget break-up today is not going to work. But I want to talk about something else right now. The first question is that this is a question that concerns the commission that is finally registered in the Parliamentary Hall, namely: the commission to verify that tariffs for utilities are not justified, the electricity of tariffs directly related to gas prices. Our previous analysis confirms that the increase in these tariffs, as a minimum, is 2 - 2.5 times, with the excess being directly generated by the tariffs themselves, where all the costs of energy-generating, energy-transmitting companies are charged, directly linked to the control of the energy system and the gas system by the nation’s largest oil clans. What's happening in the gas market today is what's happening in the electricity market is actually one thing: they're trying to transfer responsibility to millions of Ukrainian citizens for a senseless, completely uncontrollable policy, when in fact two oligarchs in the country -- Firthash and Ahmetov -- are pushing for a government that does nothing to bring order to the energy sector. Secondly, it is completely unclear to us how we can implement the International Monetary Fund's direct requirements in part relating to the establishment of order at NAC Naftogaz in energy companies, and not to implement the key position of the International Monetary Fund Memorandum, namely: the indexation of pensions and salaries directly linked to the income of citizens. These are the questions that are most important for us to consider in the session room. And the last. Our faction insists that the issue of state budget review and dividend taxation be raised again. We see today the surrender of declarations by the first persons of the state, the government, the people's deputies. When dividend payments go from two to five percent, and salary payments are 42 percent, no doubt there will never be money in the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u21	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u22	These questions are urgent, and they need an immediate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u23	Please, Vladimir Parasuk, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u24	Can I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you don't care what you're talking about. Just go out to that rostrum and speak the vowel slogans. So what I'm saying is, we have a day called Friday, and then they accept requests to the President of Ukraine. We've prepared a request to remove the Hero of Ukraine from traitors such as Litwin and other Riggian misdeeds who are sitting here in the Supreme Council. So please come on Friday and vote for these requests. And now for what it hurts. I've got this feeling, everybody comes out to this rostrum, they put up posters and someone's standing up for something. It feels like a thief's hat is on fire. So let's create a temporary investigation commission, conduct an independent evaluation, investigate, and find out who really stole the money. There's no problem here. And now I'm explaining one basic truth. When the government doesn't show the results of the work in Ukraine, these "rhygas" on it are abused: they sleep and see what a rematch will be like! They're already creating opposition governments. They're headed by Kolesnik, who stole millions of dollars from Euro-2012, and no one thinks anything. Of course, it is easy to sit and watch your tablets and read the news. But I want to tell you one thing. We will defeat Putina and cover our eastern borders, and then the boys will return home. Then I'd like to see what you tell them. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u25	Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that last week there were two outgoing meetings of two parliamentary committees in the ATO zone: the Committee on Education and the Committee on European Integration. And unfortunately, during these meetings, no representative of the Opposition Block took part in these meetings. Like, unfortunately, these deputies are also taking a walk through nondepartmental meetings. So I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, Mr. Head, a question about the responsibility of MPs who are walking through parliamentary committees and asking you, on behalf of our faction, to give a proper commission to the Voice of Ukraine to give a full report on how the deputies attend committee meetings and how they work during those weeks that they have to work in the districts. During our retreat to the ATO zone, the electorates of two cities, such as the Slovenian Republic, and here one young lady represents almost this city, and the North Danube asked us to remind them that the deputies from the Opposition Block represent these regions. The whole of Slavyansk is hung by the boards of one MP, who greets the inhabitants of the city bombed by the bandits with the Passover. So you'd better stand up and meet the voters. As for Mr. Bakulin, we were asked to bring him to our electorate in the first place. So I'm also addressing on behalf of our faction to the Head of the Supreme Council, asking the public to give journalists and the public full information about how MPs work in the districts when each deputy has to work in his own district. Where there are receptionists, whether he works there alone or where his assistants actually work. And the key. We had a very important meeting with the electorates of the towns of Slavyanska, Kramatarska, sorry, please, Starobilska, Sverodonecka. And they all turn to all the MPs, so that they don't forget these regions, so that they can work more with them, so that the government can go there more often. I'd like to inform you, dear colleagues, that we have also passed the libraries to local universities. Including those evacuated from Lugansk and Donetsk, because the students and teachers of these universities were forced to leave these places. And you know, we've also passed on modern equipment from our faction to the Lysican district clinic. Because you can imagine! --for these regions where the money of the region has been stolen over the past 20 years, there's no artificial breathing equipment for children. And the children were dying because of the basic lack of medicine. So it's very important that we don't be here, the opposition government doesn't tell us what to do, but tell us how much you stole from those regions, how you robbed them, these regions that are scary roads, what terrible infrastructure there is. And that's your full responsibility. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u27	Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u28	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There's just been a performance from the People's Front in Russian. I understand that Putin understood him without translation when they were here accusing us of something. That's what I'd like to say. There was a photograph of Azar. That's my question. And let's think about the video where Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk told us that Azarov, this is his example for whom he takes it, is his hero and great state husband. And I would like to remind you that Arsenija Petrovich was the first prime minister to be proposed by no one other than Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Remember, then? So this is the Prime Minister known from whom. I'd still like to say. There were charges here. Something to do with Firthash, the Lionskin. You know, I'm just funny. Because, personally, for example, I've only seen Firtash on TV in my life, Lewochkina, twice here in Parliament. I have a question. And Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk, how many times in his life did he communicate with Firthash and Ljovczyn? Especially during their opposition, how many times have they met, said they might give us an answer? Perhaps they will give the answer that Firthash played in Arsenius Petrovich’s role as a politician and his political growth. And now we see what the situation is. Why is this happening? This is because today, you imagine, the government party is blocking the rostrum, blaming individual non-faction deputies. This is because this government party and this government have been accused of corruption for billions! And now they're willing to turn their attention to anything, to talk about anything -- just to talk about investigating their multibillion-dollar corruption, their lies, their hypocrisy! Now they're accusing freedom of doing something wrong! But if it wasn't for Freedom, you wouldn't be sitting in these positions!Oh, my God! If it wasn't for "Freedom," it wouldn't be your authority right now! In "Freedom" 20 people in Heaven's 100! Is there one of the People's Fronts that died on Maidan?Oh, my God! What do you tell, and who do you blame?Oh, my God! How do you have a conscience to say this now?Oh, my God! You are responsible for your corruption, you are responsible for your crimes! Answer for what you're betraying Mayan right now, you're paying attention to us! It's totally your position of weakness that you're blocking the rostrum right now, you're blaming someone. Six guys, six "Freedom" guys have driven you so far that you don't know what to do with them anymore!Oh, my God! Ready to start anything against us! But we won't give in to blackmail! We will not give in to this! We'll go all the way! There will be no corruption in Ukraine!Oh, my God! The requirements of the Dignity Revolution will finally be met!Oh, my God! Maroderi, the bandits will leave power!Oh, my God! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u29	Dear fellow national MPs, I have a request. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have a request. I have a request, dear friends. Listen, please tell me from the emotion of your speeches. Dear colleagues, please calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me say two words, may I? Thank you for your respect and attention. My friends, the emotional nature of your performances, unfortunately, is no less so in our country. And since we're knocking in the rostrum, I don't see any movement that's going to happen in many ways. So I think there are much more constructive forms of dialogue that can lead to the building of effective mechanisms to fight corruption, not empty-minded. And I think everyone should realize that. And it's very important for us that people feel that way. And everyone here, not because of some political party, but because of every Ukrainian who came here, has given his voice for each of us, not for the purpose of shaking the air here, but for us to make decisions to benefit ourselves. So that everyone who stole the budget bracelet, regardless of the party, would finally sit down and play, and then in our country there would be order. So you have to investigate any information about corruption, but don't do it just like I said. And to take very clear steps that will allow greater confidence in every Ukrainian national deputy, to everyone, I emphasize that, and also to the authorities of the state. Please, Royal, Opposition Block, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u30	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! We hear a lot of stories in this rostrum about how many people's deputies love people, how they care about them, how they mourn, how they wipe out their tears and tell tales, and in fact it all turns out differently. It's good to plant flowers and trees. But at a time when thousands of homes have been demolished in the liberated territories where infrastructure has been destroyed, where schools and hospitals have been destroyed, the Government has not allocated a penny of money for reconstruction, I believe it is a crime. In this room, it was decided to allocate 300 million bracelets for the restoration of the Lugansk, Donetsk Freed Parts of Ukraine — no cash was allocated, no government decision on how to issue the money. Today, 5,000 Slavjanska residents have applied to the Prime Minister to pay compensation for the destroyed housing, to enable people to rebuild their roofs and houses. But there is no responsibility and there is no reaction. And so today, what is being restored in Slavjansk, Lisicansk, Northdonecka, Pázna, I want to say that this is done exclusively by volunteers, by people who are not indifferent to these territories, by charitable organizations and by major people's deputies. Today, the Danube is rehabilitating Poznań and Lisichansk. Today, Solod is restoring Slavansk. And I would like to see this done not only by individual people's deputies but by our Government's responsibility and responsibility. Therefore, the Opposition Unit demands that the Government urgently decide and allocate the legal 300 million to rebuild the destroyed territories, to rebuild schools, gardens, homes, hospitals and compensation to the people. Next question I would like to raise. Last week, the pensioners Lugansk and Donetsk won the government's trial. People who can't leave unsupervised territory today, people who are abandoned there today, who are forced to starve to death, have been deprived of their pensions and salaries today, deprived of their social benefits, and they go to court, they win the first instance, these people win the appeal. That is why we demand that the Government urgently restore social benefits in uncontrolled territories so that people can pay off their pensions and salaries. And the next. More than five times, this is the sixth time that the Opposition Unit, along with the non-frustration deputies, is referred to the Constitutional Court. This House of Parliament violated the Constitution 50 times by cutting down social benefits by cutting pensions and limiting payments to working pensioners. And we believe that the Constitutional Court should consider and decide on all non-constitutional decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u31	People's Deputy Kodola, People's Front. I'll give three more performances, Kodola, Ogniewitch and Ostapchuk. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Deputy Lapin, 22nd District, People's Front. I am a fighter, a military fighter, one of the hundreds of self-defences of Maidan, and here some have told me that someone has betrayed something. I remind my fellow MPs that we came here not because of Freedom, but because of Midan's ideas, it's the first time. Secondly, I have nothing against the regular members of the Freedom Party, but I have a lot against that "Word," which, for the money that the oligarchs here have heard, leads an anti-Ukrainian position. I would also like to remind you that you were the one who was appointed Attorney General of the German Republic, if you remember. And I want to hear, why don't you tell me who was planted for Maidan? I don't have to talk about any treachery here and all the other stuff that's been going on here today. I would like to stress further that the self-defence of Maidan and the Freedom Party fighters are now at war on the front. We have to make laws here. I also want to tell you all that if someone has a fist scratching, I'm ready to go to the gym, and here, please don't make noise in the rostrum, don't break the inventory. Is that all you can get out of here and blame someone? And you, by your own actions, have completely burned Midan's interests, and don't hide yourself here by Maidan, you weren't alone there. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u33	What's important, dear friends, you know what we should do? Stopting fighting is the main thing. Because since we can bring ourselves to disaster, no one can prove us that way. So the main thing is, if you have questions, sit at the table and talk. You want to talk in public, talk in public! But to fight, you told me, I'll tell you -- I think it should go back in time. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, national MPs, attention! For days he celebrated his great 80-year-old jubilee, the hetman of the Ukrainian word, the unaverage son of the Jewish and Ukrainian lands, Vadim Dmitrovich Krischenko, a man whose songs are sung by the whole country. I'm looking at this dog that the whole country is watching today, and I want to quote to you the words of Vadim Dmitriovich Krischenka: "Come the apostles of good and sit in the public chairs. The shame of the new and the shame of the old in our fate has gone beyond that. All are not those who are strangers to the power of the prophets, as slippery as the narrow ones, as lying as the forty. What are their nationalities and peoples? They have not understood the grace of God; they cannot put their mouths on, they cannot be beautified! They trade, sell, sell, and sell cheerfully and willingly for a smile, hiding their anger behind a piece of paper, hiding their eyes. That's not what was expected! Not you! Both the first and the second, the unclean took away all the holy things of the servants. When will this all end? When will we breathe in peace? Come, apostles of good! Come on, God, to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u35	Heroic glory! Last performance, please, "Rebirth." What's the matter with you? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, you know, I won't be knocking my fist here. I want to tell you, Your Honor, I'm not a member of the coalition and I'm not going to go in there. But what right do you have today to take action that leads to the collapse of the coalition? You can't do that. You're saying there's been a mistake with Yatzenuk. There is a mistake in Yatzenuk, one that is very powerful: when he was appointed Prime Minister, he had to say, Your Honor, the government is appointed by me and I am responsible. Today in the government, not only are representatives of the People's Front, there are representatives of virtually all political powers, and this is a shared responsibility. But if you have already taken such a responsibility, your honor, there are mistakes – take them off, deal with them, but do not lead to the collapse of the coalition, because this will lead Ukraine to the gap that Ukraine is going into! So coalition forces need to gather, sit, decide. Are there any mistakes? They need to be removed. The opposition block of criticism -- that's what the opposition block does, that's parliamentary work. You have no right to argue, because the people of Ukraine are awaiting economic upheavals, economic progress. Today. Today there is an external aggressor, there is Russia, there are separatists. Is there nothing to do? There are economic problems. You tell me a very simple example. I named the faction leaders in this room yesterday. Today, the people of Ukraine are waiting for the land to finally be given to the territorial communities — none of them have said a word about it, none. This is the fight against corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, all factions support Bill 1159, why isn't it in the session room? And you're doing this because you're embarrassing each other. No, take your hands and lead Ukraine if the people of Ukraine trust you! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Thank you. I ask everyone to calm down and get to normal, constructive work. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Border Sign "TUR", which is set to indicate the point of contact between Ukraine, Romania and Hungary (registration number 0008), is being submitted to your consideration. There is a suggestion that this draft ratification law should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please identify the national MPs, please support the review of the reduced procedure, the draft law on ratification. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote. [[10:47:41]] For 169 Thank you. Decision taken. Please invite the head of the State Border Service, Victor Alexandrovich Nazarenko, to report. Please, Secretariat, invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill before you proposes to ratify the Protocol on the Border Sign "TUR", which marks the point of contact between the state borders of Ukraine, Hungary and Romania. This sign consists of three iron concrete pillars, each established in the territory of one State. In 2007, interstate border commissions were inspected for crossing the border line, and a wash of the Hungarian cross-border pillar was discovered. The Hungarian side was working on moving it to another safe place. As a result, a new protocol has been signed. It should be noted that the border crossing line and the border crossing point have not changed. In accordance with Ukraine’s international treaties with Hungary and Romania on the state border regime, the specified protocol is subject to ratification. The bill is developed and agreed with the central executive authorities concerned. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u39	Thank you, Victor Alexanderovich. Please welcome Irina Heratchenko for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u40	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting on 7 April this year the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Border Sign "TUR", which is set to mark the point of contact between Ukraine, Romania and Hungary, and adopted a unanimous decision: recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of the committee came from the fact that the ratification of the above-mentioned protocol would allow the internal procedures necessary to determine the point of crossing the national borders of Ukraine, Romania and Hungary, and would contribute to the development of good neighbourly relations between our countries. This bill does not conflict with Ukraine's international obligations and is instead aimed at improving and updating the demarcation documents of the Ukrainian-Hungarian-Romanian region of the state border. And I will also point out that the decision of our committee is entirely in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support and also ask to speed up the discussion in the session room of the Agreement on the Small Border Movement between Ukraine and Romania, which will also contribute to improving our bilateral relations. And so that the ratification of this law of Ukraine would work more qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u41	Honorable fellow national MPs, is there a need? Is it? Salovite, please, National MP. Please, MPs, take your seats, please! And let's cut our conversation in the hall. It's very hard to work here. Please, Your Honor, I'd like to ask your respect for each other. Dear colleagues! Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u42	Yuri Solovay, MP's Strike, Peter Prashenko's Block. Dear colleagues, this bill clearly needs to be supported. Although I would like to draw attention to one important problem. Ivano-Frankiv region has a border with Romania, but there is no transition with Romania today. Twenty-three years of discussion. At the same time, the Supreme Region, which has all the technology, the economic justification for making the transition, cannot build this transition. And so, taking this opportunity, I'm going to the State Border Service of Ukraine, I'm going to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I'm going to finally take this issue to work, and I'm going to sign an agreement to cross the border between the region of John-Frankiv and the country of Romania, between Ukraine and Romania, in the area of the Supreme Region. And to start this project eventually on building a transition between the region of Ivano-Frankiv and the country of Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Rybak, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, this is a really important bill and we need to vote for it. But we need to keep in mind that our executive authorities do not always deal with what fate gives them, as it were. The point is, two years ago, the Eurocomisia allocated funds for the installation of the Krasnoylsk and Dekavetsi crossing points across the Ukrainian-Romanian border. But to this day these costs have not been used. And the question is, where are these costs, why aren't they used, why aren't there proper tender procedures. Yes, and with the roadways leading from the crossing points, such as the Russian-Romania Russian-Russia CAT in the Travelling region of the Chernovets region of T-26-01 with the connection of the Chernivci-CPT "Russia". The fact is, the Road Service has been there a number of times, but the tender procedures are collapsing and the road is not made. So I think that it is the bills that improve cooperation between Ukraine and Romania that will in principle lead to both transport infrastructure and all other infrastructure improving in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can go to the vote as far as I can see. Please prepare for the vote. Faction leaders invite national deputies to the hall, take your seats. A proposal is made for the vote to be adopted on the basis and, as a general rule, according to the Committee's conclusion of the bill of profile (0008) on the ratification of the Protocol of the Border Sign "TUR", which is set to indicate the point of contact between the state borders of Ukraine, Romania and Hungary. Ready to vote? Please vote on the basis and a total of 0008. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:55:14]] For-286 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. 0009 is a draft of the Law on Ratification of the Letter of Change to the Financial Agreement (Project for the construction of the high-voltage airline 750 of the Ravenska AES - Kyivska) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Svetlelik Alexander Dmitrovich. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I'd like you to identify yourself as national deputies, and I'd like you to support me. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:55:58]] For 205 Thank you. Please, Alexander Dmitrovich Svetlelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Letter to Change the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. This is probably a well - known project for the construction of the 750 - kilowatt high - voltage air line of the Plain AES - Kyivsky. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to implement an internal State procedure to give consent to the obligation of the above - mentioned Letter to amend the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank and to enter into force it. The letter of amendment to the Financial Agreement was signed by the Ukrainian side on July 9, 2014. With the aim of amending the latest date of the European Investment Bank loan by 30 June 2015 from 0.55 per cent of the annual to 0.787 per cent of the year-on-year. Other financial conditions for lending to the European Investment Bank remain unchanged. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law will enable the European Investment Bank to use the funds involved in the scope provided for in the financial agreement. This is Project, I'll repeat, the Rivnenska AES High-voltage Airline Project, Kyivska between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Anna Mikolayevna Hopko, head of the profile committee. The account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Letter of Change to the Financial Agreement (the 750-kWh high-volt air line project) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The main objective of the bill is to transfer the latest date of the sample of credit funds involved in the European Investment Bank from 31 December 2012 to 30 June 2015, with a simultaneous increase from 0.55 per cent to 0.787 years of age. Thus, adequate grounds should be created for obtaining a 150 million euro loan to finance the 750 kW high-voltage air line construction project, Ravnenska AES-Kijivska. The committee is asking for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I think everyone understands. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Draft Act (registration number 0009) on the ratification of the Construction Letter between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. The report was the department of profile, as well as the committee of profile. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. This proposal is therefore put to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. On the basis and as a whole, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Letter amending the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[11:00:06]] For 279 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information signed in Minsk on 22 January 2003. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:00:49]] For 210 Thank you. Please, Alexander Vasilovich Kornejko, First Deputy Head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, ladies and gentlemen of the people! The specified Protocol was signed in Minsk on 29 September 2014, which makes appropriate technical changes to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Technical Information Protection. It defines the new competent authorities from the states. Yes, from the government of Ukraine instead of the Ukrainian Security Service, a new appropriate body has been designated as the Administration of the State Office for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. And from Belarus, instead of the National Information Security Centre, the Task Force at the President of Belarus. Under the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the Protocol is subject to individual ratification, so our service has prepared a project, agreed with the relevant ministries and services of Ukraine and submitted for consideration to the government of Ukraine. On March 11, 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers recommended that the bill be reviewed and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for ratification. Please support the bill presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, the head of the Anna Hopko profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting yesterday, April 7, discussed a draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical information protection. And I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill and the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information. The adoption of this law is the implementation of internal state procedures for the entry into force of the International Treaty of Ukraine, which will create the necessary legal and regulatory framework for cooperation with the Belarusian side in the field of technical protection of information. Please support the committee's decision and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus (Registration No. 0006). There's a proposal for a Main Committee to take as a whole. That's the proposal I'm making for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. We vote on the basis and in total 0006 on the basis and in general, please vote. [[11:04:37]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. 0007. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons. Reported the head of the State Migration Service, Radutny Sergey Ivanovich. There's an offer by the reporter to consider a reduced procedure. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:05:16]] For 199 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, Sergey Radutny, head of the service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons. The bill was drafted by the State Migration Service on the basis of an order from the Cabinet of Ministers to ratify the Supreme Council of Ukraine Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons. The purpose of the adoption of the Law is to give Ukraine the commitment signed by Ukraine and the Icelandic parties to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons subject to ratification by the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons who have defined the mechanisms and procedures for the adoption and transfer of persons who are illegally present in the territory of those States that have approved the Agreement. In particular, it defines the effectiveness of the identification, security and organized return procedure for persons who have violated or ceased to comply with the established order of departure and stay in the territory of those States. It also facilitates the transit of those who are under readmission. Ratification of this Agreement will contribute to the development of Euro-integration processes, enhanced monitoring of migration flows and strengthened international cooperation in the area of combating illegal migration. Dear National Deputies! Please support this project, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u55	Please, the head of the Anna Hopko profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting yesterday, on April 7, discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons. And I've decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the approved draft and ratify the Agreement. The ratification of the Agreement will create legal grounds for a treaty to take effect that determines the procedure for the admission and transfer of persons who are in the territory of contractual parties in violation of the right of entry, exit and residence of foreign citizens and stateless persons, as well as for practical purposes of combating illegal migration. According to an explanatory note signed by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Arsen Awakov, the implementation of the said act does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. Please support the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u57	Thank you. May we vote, Your Honor? Please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Iceland on the readmission of persons is being put to the vote. In line with the decision of the committee, there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. The proposal is put to the vote, 0007 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[11:09:06]] For 260 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Belarus and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the impact of the state borders of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland is before you. Reported the head of the State Border Service, Nazarenko. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. [[11:09:44]] For-187 Please, Victor Mikolaiovich, report. Victor Alexanderovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! On March 14, 2013, an intergovernmental agreement was signed on the border crossing point between the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland. The agreement defines the location of the contact between the three nations. The agreement also envisioned the creation of a joint Ukrainian-Belarusian-Polish Commission, which will mark the border crossing point with the border sign "Bug" and will prepare and sign demarcation documents. The agreement takes effect from the date of receipt of the final note, which confirms the implementation of each of the necessary internal procedures. The bill was drafted and agreed upon by all the central executive authorities concerned. Its acceptance will create a legal basis for demarcating the border crossing point of Ukraine. Belarus and the Republic of Poland Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, the head of the Anna Hopko profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Belarus and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the impact of the state borders of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland. The main objective of the bill is to create the necessary legislative framework to demarcate the point of contact between the state borders of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland. In the course of the committee’s consideration of the bill, representatives of the ministries of profile fully supported the need for its adoption. The committee is asking for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an opportunity, I think, to vote, there is no need for further discussion. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Belarus and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the impact of the state borders of Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and the Republic of Poland is submitted to the vote. The findings of the profile committee are to adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please support 0010 as a base and as a whole. On the basis and in general, please support. [[11:13:00]] For 275 Thank you. 275, decision taken. 0011 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of defence. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[11:13:31]] For 204 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak, First Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u62	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Cooperation in Defence. The agreement was signed in Kiev on July 4, 2011. Once the agreement is in effect, the parties will be able to cooperate in such ways as defence policy, defence planning, military economic, military and scientific cooperation, military education and training, international peace and security operations, humanitarian operations. Commissioner for the implementation of this agreement by the Government of Ukraine – Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Government of the Republic of Cyprus – Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus. The bill has been discussed in the profile committees. The implementation of the act does not require additional expenses from the budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, head of the profile committee. Please. Irina Heratschenko, head of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill was drafted for the purpose of ratifying the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of defence, done on 4 July 2011. The agreement is aimed at initiating military cooperation between the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Republic of Cyprus and provides for general principles and procedures for cooperation between the parties in the field of defence. We discussed the draft Law ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in defence during our meeting of the Committee on 7 April and decided to support and request the session room to support the ratification of this law. I would also like to inform you that there have been questions as to why this ratification is being brought to the meetings of the Supreme Council, rather than the decision taken by the government. Because that is the point made in the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which indicates that the existing practice for other similar agreements has been approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. But we received a comprehensive response from the Ministry of Defence and there was a deputy who noted that the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice of 9 July 2011 indicated that the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus was subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the paragraph (i) of the second section of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. And in general, given what we expect from Cyprus to ratify our Association Agreement, we recommend that we now maintain this by a high vote in order to demonstrate the normal level of our bilateral relationship. Please support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, it is the right decision of the committee to take as a basis the draft law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of defence is presented for your consideration. Registration number 0011. The committee's decision is to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, based on and in general, ratification. Please be supportive. [[11:18:09]] For 266 Decision taken. Draft Law 0012 is being submitted to your consideration. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Transport of Military Goods and Personnel through Ukraine in connection with the participation of the Italian Armed Forces in the International Security Forces in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. There's a proposal for the Ministry of Defense to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please consider this suggestion for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:18:59]] For 215 Decision taken. Please report to Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak, First Deputy Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u66	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Transport of Military Goods and Personnel through Ukraine in connection with the participation of the Italian Armed Forces in the International Security Forces in the Republic of Afghanistan. The deal was signed on February 21st, 13. The agreement determines the order and organization of transit transport of military cargo and Italian contingent personnel to Afghanistan through Ukraine and the airspace of Ukraine. As well as providing support to the Italian side during transportation. The transport permit is granted by the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine. All financing, transportation costs will be borne by the Italian side. The designated bill is considered on the profile committees. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u67	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. Please, the profile committee. Irina Heratschenko, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on Euro-Integration at its meeting of 7 April 2015 has considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Italian Republic on the Transport of Military Goods and Personnel through Ukraine in connection with the participation of the Italian Armed Forces in the International Security Force in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. And he unanimously decided to support and ratify the bill. And we appeal to you to receive it in general. This bill has been drafted for ratification. And the Agreement defines the framework, order and organization of transit transport of military cargo and personnel through Ukraine in order to provide appropriate support to the International Security Force in Afghanistan. And so we have asked the committee questions about the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which stated that the bill should be submitted for the participation of the Head of State. But the Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Mr. Mehed, at the meeting he told us that this Agreement has a framework character and does not require submission from the President of Ukraine. Instead, when appropriate decisions are made and appeals have already been made regarding the transport of goods or personnel through Ukraine, specific calls will be made, then every time from the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council appropriate address. The committee therefore supported the proposal to ratify the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, we heard the report, we heard the report of the reporter and the coconspirator. There is an appropriate decision by the committee, there is, I take it, a willingness to vote in favour of the draft Ratification Act (registration number 0012). I'm asking you to take your seats as national deputies for the vote. In accordance with the committee’s decision, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill as a whole (registration number 0012). Please vote, Your Honor, 0012. Please vote. 0012 – on the basis and overall ratification. [[11:22:55]] For 270. Thank you. 270. Decision taken. Next question. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on confidence-building and security measures. Report to the First Deputy Secretary of Defense. There is a proposal for the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:23:30.]] For 207 Decision taken. Please, Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u70	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on confidence- and security-building measures. The agreement was signed on March 10, 2014, in Kiev. The adoption of the bill will result in the ratification of the agreement and will ensure further development of bilateral cooperation in the military sphere with a view to strengthening confidence and security in areas adjacent to the Ukrainian-Romanian border, allowing further information on Romania's military activities near the Ukrainian State border and its verification, as well as contributing to the development of the EU-wide system of mutual legal obligations of the OSCE participating countries in the area of security. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Romanian government – the Ministry of Defence – is responsible for the implementation of this agreement by the Ukrainian government. Consider the profile committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, the co-reporter is Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on confidence-building and security measures has been discussed by the Committee on Euro-integration at its meeting on 7 April this year and has unanimously decided to support the ratification of the Act. Under the Agreement, the parties will develop military cooperation to further strengthen mutual trust and security in areas adjacent to the Ukrainian-Romanian state border. And according to the Explanatory Note to the draft Law, all financial matters related to the implementation of this law will be resolved within the limits of the expenditure of the State budget provided for by the Ministry of Defence for the corresponding year. I would like to point out that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority does not object to the ratification of the agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can vote. Please, 0013 draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on confidence- and security-building measures. There is a decision on the basis of the bill as a whole. Please vote. And I would like you to support it as a whole. [[11:26:29]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on in the daytime. We have a number of questions that we need to include, consider inclusion in the agenda. This is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of food for the special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As I understand it, the volunteers prepared the bill. And the bill amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (for the term of validity of the Act). So it's a law that defines only validity, and it's consistent with the fact that the investigation functions aren't stopped, which is extremely important. And the third bill of 2596, the draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these three bills are only proposed for inclusion in the agenda of the session. And then we're going to look at these issues in the order of the day. I'm bringing into your consideration the bill (registration number 2550) of the bill amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (for the term of validity), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the organization of the special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (2595), the bill (registration number 2596) of the bill amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, three bills. Please take your seats, Your Honor. And I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues, please prepare for the inclusion in the agenda of the three bills that have been announced. Please vote. [[11:28:43]] For 225 Who didn't make it? We didn't make it? Okay. Please put three bills into the agenda, please vote. The three bills of order of the day, the ones that were bugged. But this is the order of the day session. Colleagues, what are we talking about? Order of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. We'll follow up on the committees. You are all members of the committees of all, why not consider the laws? [[11:29:18]] For 241 Decision taken. Three bills are included in the agenda. Next. There's an offer. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have a draft law on this. Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, it is widely known that the Procurator's Act comes in part of some of the changes since April 25th. We'll tell you what. from the Office of the Attorney General's Office's information that they have not made these organizational changes, which may paralyze the activities of the law enforcement authority. It is therefore proposed that the law extend the term of this administrative, I stress, administrative reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office by the end of this year. At the same time, there are several bills that carry out a profound reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office and this is another issue that no one is going to put in a long box. Because it is common for all of us that the Conciliation Council decided next plenary week to consider the whole set of laws relating to law enforcement reform. In particular, the creation of the National Police, the State Bureau of Investigation, the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the amendment of the Internal Affairs Act, the amendment of the CPC and so on. And so now we have to solve the tactical issue so that 25 numbers don't happen legally. I'd say yes. This needs to be decided, but this does not mean that someone is postponing the Procurator’s Reform Act, further than one plenary week. To do so in one day, by tomorrow the great Law on Public Prosecutions is impossible. Thus, it is proposed that one law be put into place, that the terms be placed in the order of the day, and that it be approved in general tomorrow. This approach will make the prosecutor’s office stable and allow him to reform in the current month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u75	Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u76	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! It deciphers what Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenko said, draft Law No. 2550, which has just been incorporated into the agenda, really delays the entry into force of the Prosecutor's Act, which we have promised Europe since 1994-1996, that we will reform it and bring it to European standards. Today, she does not want to, or someone does not want to, because there will be general oversight. The bill remains until April 25th. So everything that's happened, it's still there. In order for technical reconciliation to be suspended, Mrs. Siroid's authorship bill was put out, but it was not included today as an alternative. It's not right, it's bullshit. What's more, I think the prosecution doesn't want this prosecutorial bill to go into effect today. This will be a disgrace for us. And explain. Then I'll see who's going to explain why he didn't take action. And they'll say the following: the Supreme Council did it, it's not the President, it's not the Kabmin, it's not the Prosecutor's Office, it's the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u77	Please continue with Lucenka's lineup, and then Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u78	First of all, I wanted to ask an honorary colleague not to decipher what Lucenko said. I never speak ambiguously, I always speak plain text. We need the head of the committee to speak on the Conciliation Council and propose laws to the base to be placed in the agenda and they will be supported by the BPT faction. Just as the State Bureau of Investigation was supported, which will be considered by our position. So we don't have to look for someone to make an extreme: the President, the Henprocuror or the Parliament. We need to do what life requires of us: make changes now and then reform this body thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, then Leonid Jemetz, then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u80	The reason for this conflict is that the nighttime appearance of the idea and the morning appearance of it are in the order of the day. The point is that the coalition was working on Law 2404-1 together to reform the prosecutor's office. This law, which came into existence today, is simply an extension. In a year, we'll gather and say, "Oh, listen, we didn't make it, let's just take off again." Another observation: the inclusion in the agenda of this law was possible only if the representatives of the Opposition Block were voted on. It's a very important thing. It's a very important thing! Dear colleagues, the way out of this situation is: we're putting the daily law 2404-1 into order and we're working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u81	Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u82	Good afternoon! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, the goal of our work here in Parliament is to do strategic, key tasks. And the goal of law enforcement reform is not just to, you know, switch places, it's the goal of achieving results, namely, overcoming corruption, overcoming crime. And I want to remind you that when it came to reforming the Public Prosecutor's Office, we said it was a package, namely, an inseparable decision, a joint establishment of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation. Because it is only in such a format that it is fully capable of carrying out its tasks. That's why we can't just go ahead with the procurator's mandate for a year, because we haven't worked here in Parliament. We have the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, and we need to look at it clearly, along with the continuation of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and more than that, our position is to be written in the final positions on the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u83	Please finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u84	For the purposes of And secondly, we have an alternative bill, where I, Mrs. Siroid, Sotnik, am the author, that we have to deal with the prosecution's business. If we're doing business with prosecutors and we're deciding on a prosecutor's selection procedure, that it's supposed to be transparent, our position is to be written in law so that no one can ever twist it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, the position of the Radical Party of the faction is clear: we must immediately take all measures to reform the prosecutor's office and law enforcement authorities in general, because today the ordinary Ukrainian man will not find the truth either in the prosecutor's office or in the police department. Although it is necessary to give Habakkuk due, corruption finally began. More and more, this must be done in order for people to have the opportunity without money, without mud, to find the opportunity to defend their rights there. So everything we need from our faction, from our party, from our team, so that Ukrainian citizens can have protection, have support, have the opportunity to defend their interests, we can do that. And of those who do not investigate crimes, those who cover corrupters, we will shake three souls out of them, and three skins will be pulled off! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u87	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? We have just put in order a daily bill, which has six other alternative bills, one of which, 2004-1, has been drafted by virtually all representatives of the coalition. It's a bill authored by virtually every faction of the coalition. Our request. If a bill for reforming the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently included, we are obliged to include everyone else. What difference does it make? The difference is next. If Bill 2404-1 is included, there are a number of norms that can be introduced not after a year, but after six months. But there are a number of standards that can't be introduced in a year. These are standards that apply to the proper preparation of competitive commissions, the proper preparation of the qualifications of prosecutors. And that's why there's an interval of even two years. But the principles that apply to the work of the prosecutor’s office will begin to work. So our request is to go back to being involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u89	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u90	the alternative bill 2404-1 was considered at the same time, where all these standards are regulated. And there won't be any problems with the prosecutor's job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Well, it's obvious that 2404 and 2401 are laws that are deeper. Absolutely right, George Lucenko, who said that this rule should be regulated and not exaggerated. Not for a year, but for a new year. And during this period of time, we have to complete all procedures to keep the investigation going. I understand that some people probably want April 25th to end up looking into any criminal case at all. And then they'll all burn. So I think the position should be the next one. We have to look at 2550, which is included in the agenda, as an emergency in terms of regulation of this standard. I don't see anything difficult about the fact that 2404 and 2404-1 to put into the agenda and consider it is not related to this law, but rather to the deeper law that might be necessary to resolve these positions and to remove any conflict. And tomorrow, 2550 take, vote, do "8 months" and figure it out. And figure out what 8 of these are. By the end of the year, this will be done all the actions that will be needed within the framework of other bills developed by fellow national deputies. So I'm going to put the vote to 2404, 2404-1 for inclusion in the agenda. Is there no objection? Colleagues, concentrate, please. I don't see any conflict here. But we realize that this one, that the standard changes 2550, has to be considered very quickly and accepted. And 2404 and 2404-1 are considered in the entire law enforcement system in common. Is it accepted? This approach is taken. Please review 2404, 2404-1 of the agenda. 2404, 2401 in the order of the day session. I'd like to make a statement. 2404 and 2404-1. I'd like to make a statement. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be included in the agenda of the day session. [[11:42:27]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Second reading. Because I was unable to make a second suggestion, as everyone began to discuss it. Second reading, please, of draft Law 0948. Draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich, please on the rostrum. Report. It's a second reading, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the committee at its meeting on February 4, 2015 discussed proposals made by the law-makers to the draft Ukrainian Law on Parliamentary Opposition, registration number 0948, for second reading. However, following the incorporation of the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition into the agenda of the day’s first session into the committee, article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure provided 185 proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies. The highest number of proposals came from articles 6th, 8th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 14th, 19th Bill on the characteristics and order of parliamentary opposition, changes in its composition, the right to representation in the leadership of the Supreme Council, its organs, participation in parliamentary control and so on. The Committee reached a conclusion on the proposals for the bill and invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take into account the proposal of the People's Deputies of Phinehas Paul - Number 1, to reject the proposals of the People's Deputies of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Pisarenko, Guellera, to issue: 3, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 17, 24, 25, 29, 31, 33, 42, 47, 59, 62, 64, 72, 84, 96, 101, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 111, 113, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 124, 128, 129, 130, 132, 133, 135, 137, 143, 146, 149, 152, 156, 168, 166, 168, 178, 172, 175, 175, 178, 178, and 185. And the National Deputy of Ukraine Agafone, you can see the numbers in the comparative table. And the People's Deputy Papiev. As well as the People's Deputies of Miroshnick and the People's Deputy of Vinick. Next. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council, on second reading, that the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition be rejected in accordance with part one, paragraph 2, of article 123 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And task the committee to prepare a new regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the principles of formation, organization, activity, termination of the Coalition of Deputies' factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and parliamentary opposition. And in preparing the amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules to deal with the proposals that came from legal entities to the Law Project (registration number 0948). National deputies, members of the committee, have introduced the relevant draft Decree (registration number 0948/p of 27.02.15). Please support the specified Decision Project.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u93	Thank you. We're going after the repairs? Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u94	Mr. Head, I would like to ask, perhaps, not to go to the amendment, but to support the project that the chairman of the committee has just announced. Because the committee is offering to reject. This is the first amendment. If we take it into account, all the other amendments do not make sense to consider because they are becoming obsolete. One amendment to vote and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I thank you for including the bill in the plenary session. Although this bill may have had to be considered long ago. I insist as the author of the amendments on the consideration of all of them. And I'd like to pay attention to both the committee and the Supreme Council as a whole, and to the Ukrainians all about the fact that Bill 1066 was registered for my authorship, which was exactly the concept that sounded, namely, the changes to the Rules. He was returned to me by a committee decision, and now there's actually an attempt to repeal this law. The Opposition Act is necessary, not for factions of opposition, but for Ukrainian society. So I urge you to look at the amendments all the way through their registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u97	Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u98	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Now we're looking at this sort of attempt to break this law and then again for many years to tell what more needs to be done to adopt a normal law on opposition. I will remind everyone that in no country that considers itself a democratic country, there is such an institution as opposition and there is an appropriate law. The members of the Rebirth Group, colleagues of Geller, Pisarenko have passed this law, so we insist that this law be passed today, not simply on a treaty to the acting authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u100	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens who are now watching direct broadcasts. I would like to remind you that the Law on Parliamentary Opposition was passed almost a year and a half ago when the Supreme Council of Ukraine was convened. And then that law was voted in favour of those national MPs who today are part of the parliamentary coalition, the parliamentary majority. I have submitted more than 10 amendments and proposals to this bill. And as the subject of the legislative initiative, I insist that every proposal I make to this law be voted upon. If we are going to the European standards of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to adopt this law and give control functions to the citizens of Ukraine who voted in favour of the Opposition Block. And we need to support the conclusions of the Venice Commission that supported this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Igor Lapin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u102	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, a black tulip flew into my city yesterday. If anyone doesn't know, I'll tell you that this is the transport that brought my brothers. And I would like to ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the dead cyborgs, which are now being carried on by the burial procession. These are cyborgs such as Andrew Karpiuk (81 brigade), Dmitri Stepanov, Yuri Chichalin, Dmitri Swederski of the Plains. I would ask everyone to honor their memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. If I'm allowed to finish, I'd like to say more. It's been over a year since our brothers from Midan's Self-Defense have been shot and millions of our citizens are putting the last penny on the front to protect the Motherland. And today the whole country requires a few things: peace and justice. For peace on the front, our boys are fighting, and 4,000, more than 4,000 self-defense guys are fighting on the front today. At the same time, the Ukrainians do not see justice from the authorities in Kiev. The primary justice must be tiredness in order to punish those who are guilty of crimes. Self-defense claims we won't allow a rematch of anti-Ukrainian forces. And the first test for the Attorney General is that the Self-Defense has been assembled and formed in filing with the Attorney General's Office a statement of criminal offences against the five so-called National Deputies. Deputies: Boyka, Bakulina, Jeremeyeva, Moscalenka, and Oneshchenka This is the first test for our Attorney General and we'll see how he's going to investigate. We're handing over copies of the crime reports registered in the Attorney General's Office to the opposition bloc and the dry matter on the Moscow road, maybe they'd better go to the destination. On our soil today, we claim that criminals will be punished by the death of war brothers. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u103	Please, National Deputy Solovay. We're going to start, honourable colleagues, a vote on the first amendment that speaks of rejection. So please come in to the hall and then to Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u104	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group, Peter Prashenko's block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Act is usually required in our country, as is the case in any civilised state. But it is needed in conditions where the opposition is professional, modern and represents the interests of Ukrainian society, not the interests of individual business clans, individual oligarchs and business entities. Because today we see that Ukrainian, so-called, in quotes, "opposition" is the monopolies that took over the Ukrainian economy, these are the people who rocked events in the East, these are the people who gave away the Ukrainian Crimea of Russia, and these are the people who are the fifth column of the Kremlin today in the Ukrainian Parliament. And if we vote today on the Law on Parliamentary Opposition, we will, de facto, legitimize and reinforce Russian influence in our country. And that's why I'm addressing all of Ukraine's conscious deputies, in no way allowing adoption in the current edition of the Opposition Act. Yes, when the time comes when there will be a normal opposition in the Ukrainian State that will work for the interests of Ukrainian people and Ukrainian society, I am confident that the Ukrainian Parliament will then adopt the relevant law. Today, the Ukrainian Parliament has no right to vote in favour of the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko. If you say the second reading and speaking, I'd have your logic, your faction not to give a word, but I did. This has begun with you, so please let me say the word. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to state that the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block does not recognize the Shadow Government as the Ukrainian opposition. We only view it as a group of misdemeanors of the previous criminal regime who want to continue to see themselves untouchable. The other one. I call on the entire coalition to vote in favour of Amendment No. 1, which will not allow today's opposition blockers to block Parliament's work throughout the entire day after the proposed amendments. After voting for the first amendment, we can move on to a vote of law in general, determine with this issue as a matter of hope, and end with the question of the existence of anti-State elements in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. And we're going to finish, everyone's speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u108	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The former speaker of the Russian Derjduma Narishkin or Grizzlow, who, prior to his election as Speaker of the State of Russia, was the Minister of Interior, said to the well-known phrase, "The Gosduma is not a place for discussion." The Ukrainian Parliament is a place for discussion, sometimes for hot debates and there is no Ukrainian Parliament, there is no Ukrainian democratic state if there is no opposition in Parliament if there is no opposition in the country. Because power is not forever, today in power, tomorrow in opposition. Clearly, therefore, the rights of opposition must be regulated by law, and for many years we insisted that this law be passed. And the Yanukovich gang did not allow this law to be passed. Yanukovich's gang has put the opposition in jail. Today, Janukovich's gang wants the law. You're responsible for the crimes, for the killings, for the betrayal of the country, for bringing Putin. And the opposition in the Ukrainian Parliament will be Ukrainian, not Kremlin!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the voting procedure. The Regulatory Committee has introduced a draft Supreme Council regulation rejecting the draft Ukrainian Law on Parliamentary Opposition in a second reading. Accordingly, this decision is handed down to you as the conclusion of the committee. And it's also in the first amendment to the committee. I would like to point out that now that 226 votes are in favour of this decision, it will mean that the law is rejected, and we will continue to consider no amendments, that is, the decision will be adopted. So please prepare for the vote on the first amendment, namely, the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rejecting the draft Ukrainian Law on Parliamentary Opposition in the second reading. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote, Decree 0948, rejecting the draft Ukrainian Law on Parliamentary Opposition. [[11:58:40]] For 228 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have some drafts to consider. They're supposed to be under review. Mr. Shurma, please say a word, please take a minute, but please send me to the rule of the Rules, where I should give you a word of reason in the second reading before.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u110	I refer to the rule of law: this is the same norm that you gave the floor to all members of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u111	That's the head's right. I gave my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u112	And I, according to the Rules, say that today, every MP and the faction representative has the right to speak his word. So I want to use my word. These statements that the people who represent business interests are speaking for today's opposition -- that's all nonsense. As long as in the aggressor country, for which you voted, your business and making money, which looks like over 300 million dollars in profits, has an oligarch number one, who takes first place in that. In that state, don't refer to another norm. And what you voted against today is you, you know, poured butter into the fire. There is no eternal government and that you will go to Europe and tell stories about democracy, and you will explain why there is no Opposition Act today. That's the law you all voted for, and today you're playing double standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u113	Thank you, my fellow Members. I would like to point out to you in accordance with the Rules that the second reading of the bill does not provide, just in case. Dear colleagues, of course, need a fine, powerful Law on Opposition and we need to deal with it. There is no eternal power, there is no eternal opposition, there is an eternal Ukrainian people who need respect and there must be limitations that will never allow the authorities to become. I don't even want to repeat that word, in dictatorship, yes, let's say very gently. Dear colleagues, 12 hours. In accordance with the Rules, we have a break. At 12:30, we continue our work. Everyone please arrive on time for their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u114	Dear fellow MPs. Time to work. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Please let the deputies know that the break time is up. And please, let's go into the hall and take up jobs. Dear factions, I ask you to call on the MPs, to engage all your authority and organizational skills to encourage MPs to work actively and productively. Let's go into the hall, people's deputies! Dear colleagues, I'm once again inviting all the deputies into the hall to continue our work. Please, we're taking up jobs, we can't start to consider drafts. Please come into the hall. The Secretariat would like to inform the deputies and make an announcement about the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, we are being looked at by the people who chose the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And every time such a detention takes place, I'm sure the authority of every national MP in front of people who expect decisions from us falls. We agreed for two weeks because we're going to work in a new way, that the level of discipline in the hall is going to be completely different. And I'm surprised and afraid that these calls are not being heeded by all the deputies who promised to work actively and systematically in the elections. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs so that we can work full-time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u115	Fellows, we continue our work. You have introduced a draft Act amending the Law on Seeds and Gardening Material (on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation before EU and WTO legislation). Two bills: 1460 and 1460-1. 1460 – authorship of Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. 1460-1 – Merchant Ivan Volodymyrovich. Please, Your Honor, we can begin our consideration of this bill. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out what's going on in the hall. You know, well, they told me to report the bill, which is very important, according to our authorship. But what's going on in the hall is just a circus. So there's about half the deputies around here, there's no one in the room right now, there's no way they can come back from the break. I'd like to point out to audiences and audiences that we actually feel that there's a 300-man coalition in the Supreme Council -- a constitutional majority. And there's something I don't understand why this constitutional majority can't even get 226 people together after a break and work. Which, by the way, is not only why you were voted for, but also by taxpayers. So I guess we have to think about it anyway. And I encourage people to think about why your constituents don't come and work so there's no mistake like the next election. In fact, it's a bill. This is a very important bill on seed. The tribe is a priority and strategically important direction for Ukraine’s agriculture. The world’s seed and gardening market is growing rapidly, raising standards and requirements for the quality and purity of seed and gardening material. The difficult situation in the national seed market and the planting market is primarily caused by outdated legislation in the field of seed and planting. In order to support the national producer, change in the national regulation system and control of the seed market, changes to Ukraine’s existing legislation are needed in the first place. The bill that we are proposing is a draft law amending the Law on Seeds and Gardening Material, designed to harmonize Ukrainian legislation in the field of seeding and planting into EU and WTO legislation, as well as to harmonize the Law on Seed and Gardening and the laws of Ukraine on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities and on the Basic Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activities. The proposed draft law provides for deregulation of the procedure for obtaining the right to produce seed and garden material. If, in accordance with the Act on Seeds and Gardening, the holder needs to be tested, after which he will be placed in the register of seed-testing subjects, the draft law only establishes the introduction by the owner of the seed-producer register on the basis of his application. Then he is granted the right to produce seed and garden material. That is, a very important declarative principle of attestation is introduced. The seeding and planting system is proposed to make the bill transparent and accessible because according to article 14 of our draft information, which contains the register of manufacturers, the register of conformity assessment bodies, the register of certification auditors, the register of certificates issued by the seed conformity assessment bodies and. or garden material is open and publicly available. It is very important that there be absolute transparency of the corresponding registers, which unfortunately is not yet available. The draft Law also proposes to improve the national system of seed certification and planting material. In particular, the certification of seed and gardening material is expected to be carried out by non - state-owned owners. And the definition of the variety of seed and garden material by field inspection and labelling of seed and garden material will be done by the certification auditor. Our project also proposes a mechanism for legal regulation, social relations, which provides for responsibility for the violation of the seed and seed market, which will stimulate good conscience in this area and help to prevent the emergence and spread of innocuous and dangerous seeds and planting materials. In summary of my statement, I would like to point out that this is a very important law that we have yet to pass in the last call of the Supreme Council. Sadly, there were more important matters at the time. He wasn't looking back then. And the key point is that this bill aligns our legislation with the legislation of the European Union and with the requirements of the World Trade Organization. This is also vital in the context of our commitments under the Association Agreement with the European Union. And certainly, apart from a variety of harmonization and various commitments, this contributes to the development of Ukraine’s respective sector. And it's very important, especially in the context that, in fact, in Ukraine today, the agricultural sector is becoming more and more important, it's becoming more and more systematic in our country. On the background of the shrinking sown areas in China, India, on the background that it is in those countries where the population continues to grow, that the number of areas that can be allocated to food production, to agriculture, that Ukraine can become the leader, the economic leader of the world, to the development of its agricultural sector. Unfortunately, we still have a lot of obstacles to legislation on this issue. Unfortunately, we have a moment where we have oligopolies in the market for goods. But such bills, such laws, are also helping Ukraine to have a decent place in its agricultural sector, in terms of the agricultural industry. And if we're going to adopt these kinds of bills, we can go to a completely different level of GDP for five years. Because today's economy has, the world economy has some cyclicality. You know, at first there was an agrarian society, then there was an industrial revolution, then there was a service economy. Then it's part of the high-tech economy. But now, once again, 200 years after the first transformations in the world economy, it's once again becoming an agrarian sphere. Again, countries in which the agricultural sector is developed go to the first level. And they can win at the expense of that, and they can beat themselves into the leaders of the world. That is why we need to draw the utmost attention to this question. And I call upon all colleagues, regardless of your political preferences, independent of these posters that are being posted here today, from another circus, to vote on the very quality of the laws. And to vote on the need for a law for a country. So I urge you to support our bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Miroshnichenko Ivan Volodymyrovich, 1460-1
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! I fully agree with Mr. Levchenko that this bill is very important for the agricultural complex of Ukraine. So I'm very glad that the number of deputies is increasing and we can vote on it. If we are talking to you about deregulation, demonopolization or improvement of business conditions, this is precisely the case with Bill 1460-1, namely: this bill 1460-1 proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Seed and Gardening, "On the Protection of Plant Rights", "On the List of Permitential Documents in the Field of Economic Activities". Its aim is to promote the development of the seed potential of Ukraine through the liberalisation and demonopolization of the seed certification market and planting material with conservation, I stress, with the conservation of the state's registration function for seed producers and plant varieties. The proposed improvement in effective legislation is primarily about improving the competitive environment, facilitating the access of domestic seed to new expert markets. The system of non-state expert institutions accredited by the National Accreditation Agency is being introduced, the certification of seed and seedling subjects is being revoked, the registration of seed producers is being introduced according to the declarant principle, the requirements for documents submitted for the registration of the variety are being reduced, the conduct of formal examination of the application and the issuance of documents on the right to variety are reduced, the procedure for conducting the expertization of the class name is being clarified, the procedure for the complaint of the decision concerning the application is clarified. A mechanism is also in place to avoid double certification for seed and planting material issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is joined by Ukraine, or the ISTA certificate, the International Association for Seed Quality Control. Imported seeds with these certificates will be recognised in Ukraine. Thus, the costs of the state budget for the validation of these certificates will be reduced. The administrative burden on the Ukrainian authorities will also be reduced and the seed certification processes will be accelerated. So, the bill as a whole corresponds to politics and parliament, and the government on deregulation, contributes to the development of seed potential in Ukraine and supports our manufacturer. The bill is also supported by the Ministry and supported by professional social organizations. In doing so, I would like to point out that the bill does not extend to the circulation of seeds and gardening material of genetically modified plants. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the head of the Taras Kutov profiling committee. Please, Taras Victorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u120	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 3 February 2015, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Seed and Gardening Material (on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation in the field of seed and planting to EU and WTO legislation) (registration No. 1460) from 12.12.2014, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Glaucoma and others. And the draft Law is an alternative – 1460-1 on the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of seed and planting in accordance with European and international requirements, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Miroshnichenko and others. It should be noted that both bills aim to improve the system of seed and planting in Ukraine by harmonising the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in this area. Act 1460 proposes to regulate the procedure for obtaining the right to produce seed and garden material by cancelling the certification of seed producers. The project also proposes that the manufacturer be given the right to produce seed and garden material on the basis of his application and the introduction of a producer into the Register of Seed Manufacturers and Gardening Material. The project also proposes to make information available to the public about the registrations that exist in the field of seed and planting. This is the Register of Seed Manufacturers and Garden Material, the Register of Conformity Assessment Bodies, the Register of Auditors of the Certification of Agronomies Inspectors, the Register of Certificates, issued by the seed conformity assessment bodies and the gardening material. Project 1460 also proposes to improve the national seed certification system and garden material. In particular, the certification of seed and vegetable material is expected to be carried out by non - state-owned operators, and the determination of the classification of seed and vegetable material by field inspection and labelling of seed and garden material by the certification auditor. With regard to alternative bill 1461, its main purpose is to obtain the status of equivalentity of Ukrainian seed with European requirements. This, in turn, will enable the Ukrainian seed to enter the EU market. Without this status, no country can supply its seed to the European Union market. At first, experts estimate the level of legislation in a given country, what we are doing now, how certain mechanisms work in that country, and only then do we have the equivalent status. The bill foresees a simplified registration of the seed subjects, now of course it is incredibly burdensome. For example, the registration of varieties in Ukraine is 6 times more expensive than in Spain or in a similar European country. The seed imported into Ukraine is first certified in Europe, then certified in Ukraine. So it's actually the same procedure in both Ukraine and Europe and the certification work that importers actually pay. But we have to understand that at each stage of payment in the end this all applies equally to the cost that our farmer accordingly places on the cost of the seed and the cost of its produce. I would like to remind you that Ukraine has joined the Grain Crop Certification Scheme of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Seed Quality Control Association. By ratifying these international conventions, we have actually undertaken to accept these certificates. But in fact, this mechanism doesn't work, so in this situation, the bill eliminates these gaps. Project 1461 also amends the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Plants Rights to supplement the law with new terms, and sets the deadline for the applicant to report within 10 working days on the acceptance of his application for an expert class. With regard to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, they conclude that the first reading of the draft legislation should be returned to work. In our opinion, the committee thought we had quite an active discussion on this bill. It was decided that it was essential to adopt these bills and the hall should determine which of them would eventually be adopted. I hope that one of them will definitely be voted on today. The committee's decision looks like this. In summary, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Law on Seed and Gardening of Ukraine on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation in the field of seed and planting into the EU and SOT Act (registration No. 141) to be rejected, and a draft Act on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine No. 1461 to be adopted on the basis. The committee had very hot discussions on this subject, and they were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u121	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u122	There were comments, especially the position of our colleague Arkady Alexiyovich Kornacsky in this regard, I think he will have the same opportunity to express it today during the discussion. But I have announced the committee's decision, and I ask you to join the debate, and it is essential that one of these bills be actually adopted today for the benefit of our agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u123	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. People's MP Musak, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u124	Please give the floor to Deputy Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u125	National MP Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u126	National MP Bakumenko, Peter Prashenko Block. I want to tell you to support Bill 1461. For a long time, he was prepared by professional associations and supported by all the agrarians. The bill greatly simplifies everything that is related to the tribe in Ukraine. The bill decentralizes the powers of public authorities in seed. Yes, there is a division of responsibilities between the CMU, the Mineconomy, the National Authority of Ukraine in accreditation. The bill made it impossible to directly interfere with the activities of the public authorities in the seed business without a court’s decision. Also proposed is the electronic registration mechanism. Please support Bill 1460-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, People's Republic of Lunchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u128	People's Front, Deputy Lunchenko. The People's Front is ready to support Bill 1460-1 in the first reading, as opposed to Bill 1460, it is called upon to systematically reform this sector. In addition, foreign experts were working on drafting the bill, which highly appreciated it. So this will help improve Ukraine's international ratings in business simplicity. One of the main problems in the field today is the excessive concentration of powers that is proposed to be strengthened by Bill 1460, which increases the risk of corruption in the field. At the same time, Bill 1460-1 proposes to assign responsibilities and responsibilities in the area of succession between the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of the APC, the Ministry of Economy, the National Authority of Ukraine for Accreditation. Yes, we support 1460-1 in the first reading, and we reject 1460 is this proposal from the People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u129	Vadim Ivchenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, of course, supports Bill 1460-1. I want to say that this is the most complex bill that really strengthens our domestic producers before we enter the European Union. What I'm saying is that certification is passed from state to state. The issue of certificates, the performance of laboratory and class control, as well as the determination of soybean qualities, will be carried out by an accredited conformity assessment body. Dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that seed certification is derived from this bill of government control and responsibility and authorization in the field of seed and planting will be equally shared between the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the State Agricultural Inspectorate, the Mineconomy and the new body, the National Agency of Ukraine with accreditation. Please support Bill 1460-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u132	Thank you. Semerak. People's Front. But I would like to focus more on my speech not on the position of the political faction as the Committee on European Integration. Vladimir Borisovich, a very important moment. I would like to support Oleg Valeriovich, because European integration is a priority of our internal policy. Unfortunately, the position of the European Integration Committee did not appear in the statements of the drafters of the bill and the Main Committee. Unfortunately, the authors did not say, using the name "European integration", which directives they integrate. I would like to point out that unfortunately, both bills do not correspond to the rights of European law, as the European Integration Committee concludes. I think it would be very important in this discussion to hear both the position and the government, because there are representatives and deputy ministers here for the European integration of Mrs. Ruticka. Plus, it's important that there's an appropriate bill introduced by the Government that's registered in the Supreme Council and simplifies the certification procedure. It is unfortunate that we are discussing these matters in a divided way, and it is unfortunate that the Supreme Council, by ratifying the Association Agreement, does not pay much attention to the fulfilment of our obligations to the European Union, which are set up in the Association Agreement. And using this situation, I would like us to discuss in the future how the Supreme Council will take into account the commitments that Ukraine has made to itself by signing and ratifying the Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, please. Yuri Lewchenko, then Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u134	Thank you. I'd just like to answer a few moments as co-author of the bill. Well, first of all, I'd like to do it anyway, when we're having a discussion about drafts, so there's more issues of professional evaluation than general phrases, like, a more systemic bill, like, something that doesn't answer, and so on. First of all, with regard to systemivity, our bill is completely new. Law drafting, new law drafting. Another bill is, proposes to amend existing laws. So you can't say that the changes to a few in contrast to the new edition are more systematic, well, that's absurd from a legal point of view, yes. Just when we're talking about the content of the bill, in fact, the alternative bill is 99 percent, essentially the same as our bill, which is actually what I reported. The difference is precisely in some legal technique, because I think the bill, which is completely out of the blue, is more systematic, in fact, and there are no gaps and there are certain legal inaccuracies. And secondly, there's a question about international certification, well, that's a question of debate, which really could be discussed between the first and the second readings, that's the first. Secondly, with regard to the EU directives, it has just been said that something does not seem to fit, I would like to hear exactly what legislation does not correspond to a specific directive or other European Union legislation to make it clear. Because, in fact, I have very different conclusions from the relevant experts and from the lawyers, which all fit. And it seems that somehow Kabin doesn't want to have proper deregulation and doesn't want to relieve bureaucratic pressure on this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this law -- 1460-1 -- is also strategic. It says here that the operation of the law does not extend to the circulation of seeds, to plant material of genetically modified plants. We will soon be the only country in the world that will not sow or sow these plants. And soon the whole world will be growing in us seeds that will not cross-pollution with genetically modified plants. So it's very important to adopt this law -- and to become the only country in the world to protect their lands from genetically modified plants that are actually extremely popular today in the capitalist vulgar world, where they think about corn centurions, not their healthy food. Then we will be exporters of healthy food in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u137	Thank you. Please take your position from the profile department. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u138	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The key issue of both bills is regulating the seed certification procedure. If we're looking at Project 1460, he suggests that when importing seeds, we take foreign certificates into account only if they're mutually recognized. At that time, Law 1460-1 proposes automatic recognition of certificates issued under OECD rules and international certificates and uses practices widely used in all countries of the European Union. If you're talking about the rules. The EU regulations do not set out the standards to be certified, but use the practices that exist in European countries, which are specifically laid down in Law 1460-1. The Ministry therefore supports law 1460-1, along with its profile committee, and rejects law 1460. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u139	Please, Irina Heratschenko, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, as head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u141	Please invite MPs. We'll vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, as chairman of the Euro Integration Committee, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Bills 1460, 1461-1 have not yet been considered on the Committee on European Integration. They must stand in order today. Therefore, the committee had not yet officially accepted any conclusions; they had. They're at our table today. But I have just invited the conclusions of the Committee on European Integration, at least which our secretariat has been working on, are positive, and the committee secretariat is proposing to take this decision. With regard to the committee’s decision, we will be taking it today at three o’clock in our meeting. It was I who wanted to inform the session room that he was not really on our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the chairman of the committee is the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I wanted to address, first of all, including my colleagues from Freedom and say that absolutely clearly two bills are new, very necessary, deregulation and so on. In the context of systems-free systems, I think this is the basic question of how much innovation will be present in the market once these bills are supported. I also agree with you that in fact the complexity of the presentation from the committee was that they are literally almost 95 percent of the same, and there are some inaccuracies that distinguish one bill from another, which has just been reported by the deputy minister. So I'm asking you very much to pay attention to both one bill and the other bill, and still consider it. I want to tell my colleagues that the committee's decision is a collegiate decision, and in fact the committee's decision was in favour of Bill 1461. But it certainly doesn't diminish the importance of your bill, its revolution. So please support this legislative initiative in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have heard all the positions of all the committees, the rapporteurs. We have two bills: 1460, 1460-1. The profile committee also considered the committee's conclusion of 1460 -- to reject, by 1460-1 -- to accept as a basis. And in the coming order, I'm going to put them to the vote right now. 1460. I put him to the vote. If he doesn't dial 226, he'll already be rejected, automatically. And you get to vote, you don't get to vote, you don't get to vote. I'm just informing you that it's the committee's decision to reject. Therefore, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I remind you that there are 2 bills: 1460 is the committee's decision to reject, and an alternative 1460-1 is the committee's decision to take it as a basis. The same position is supported by the Ministry of Profiles in order to be based on 1460-1. Prepared? Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please take your seats, we vote. The first is a bill, registration number 1460, on a basis. But the committee's decision is to reject it. I'd like to make a decision about the vote on 1460. [[13:15:33]] For-46 He won 46 votes. This means that he is rejected. I put it on the ground, and the committee's decision, I informed them what was to be rejected. Honorary colleagues, you have before you a bill, draft Law 1460-1 amending certain Ukrainian legislation (with regard to the introduction of seed and seed legislation in accordance with European and international requirements). On the basis of the committee’s decision, it is supported by the Ministry. Please determine whether to vote on the basis of the bill. Based on the base. Please vote. Based on the base. They're backing up. [[13:16:30.]] For 244 Decision taken. 244. We will continue to prepare for the second reading. I think we'll find understanding in the preparatory process. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, draft Law 1336: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. There is an offer to consider it by the author’s reduced procedure. Please. The author is Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. So we're going to figure out how to look at the simplified procedure. [[13:17:18]] For-170. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, draft Law 1336 is before you. This is the first generation of Chernobyl children, children who have now reached the age of 18 and have not been granted the status of victims. And of course, this violates social justice today because it has been proven by the scientific various countries of the world that the diseases that Chernobyl has brought to our country are passed on from generation to generation. Therefore, we propose that children of Chernobyl today be given at least minimal protection and support so that, after reaching the age of 18 years, these children have the right and the right to a medical examination, dispensation and the necessary medical care and care. Today, there are 67,000 such children in our country. In order to restore justice, less resources are needed. We have foreseen the sources of these resources, and we ask you to find an opportunity and support, because unfortunately this year is the year where the Chernobylites were most punished by taking away the lion's share of the rights and opportunities they had. This is particularly true of those areas that were under Chernobyl. This is the Žitomir region, where today children cannot be taken to the kindergarten, where they are forced to pay for the feeding of children in schools and gardens where they have been deprived of their health. The worst thing is, when a first-group Chernobyl invalid today, his pension started to be taxed. Therefore, people today do not have the capacity to heal themselves, so let us at least give their children the right to receive reliable protection from the State. I hope very much for your support, especially now, on the eve of Chernobyl's anniversary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u147	Please, the head of the profile committee of Mikol Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, first of all, such a strategic moment. We in the committee are trying to convince the government, and after the parliamentary hearings, we invited them to work actively on these social programs so that we, in Chernobyl, by the way, not only in Chernobyl, could go to the aid of a particular person, but then to the people who are still under the real influence of Chernobyl, not to think about the categories that we have since Chernobyl. You know how most of the zones are divided, by the circular method, by the military. And it turns out that there are areas that haven't been infected since day one, but there are areas that are in a very critical situation. In the fourth zone, I'm telling you. So the government automatically canceled the fourth zone. So there's about 1,300 locations. After the dissipation that scientists had made, about 300 had to be preserved, and a thousand could be known. Same story in the friction zone, second. Many popular sites can already be filmed, but you can't, as the circle was introduced, cancel the circuit. Similarly, cancel certain social programs. We need to watch and register every child and every person, and then we'll understand who we're helping and who we're not helping. The idea here that our colleagues at the Opposition Block have suggested is generally a good idea. So the point is that we children are going to have to heal once a year and get free medical examination. Now that they are adults, the question arises: Perhaps someone is cured, then perhaps he does not need it, and who else has the disease needs it. So, well, there are ideas here, the committee supported it, but it's important that the government doesn't have to calculate all of these adults. We need to make the right documents, write them down. So the idea of the committee is to support the first reading and actively work with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u149	Thank you. Please sign in. Two for, two against. Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the Rebirth Group will support this law by 100% to improve the lives of that category called "blackbacks and Blackback children." The only thing you can tell me is where to get the money for this. So you can take it from the budget table, which is 928 million dollars today for public authorities and government in particular. I think it's better to give this money to the kids, and the activity can be less enlightened, there won't be any problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputies of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u152	Matvienkov, town of Mariupol. Of course, the Opposition Block will support this bill, we have always spoken and advocated that the most unprotected segments of the population -- the social sectors -- are in these conditions, they must be particularly protected, they must be given special attention. But I would like to support the speaker of the previous speaker and to focus on the specific targeted grant the topic and attention. We are saying that the most vulnerable segments of the population are the most vulnerable. And when we spoke on a number of occasions before that about the need to establish a register of concessions, when we had to understand clearly what specific donations each individual citizen of Ukraine needed, unfortunately these discussions remained only conversations. Today we have a common understanding of the benefits, today we have common costs that we bear in these categories. But some concessions need specific assistance may be ten times more, and some may and may not be able to afford specific targeted assistance. And when we talked about moving towards price increases and tariffs, the Government said, we said at the time, introduce a register of concessions, establish a register of the needy category, so that we can understand clearly who the grant should be given. Nevertheless, we are on the path of establishing a system of subsidies, which I do not understand, and once again, I have spoken from the rostrum of the Supreme Council and said that I cannot be sure today that it will earn and will be a clear mechanism that will reach every human being to protect every human being. Today, the specific question is: How can a person live on a pension of a thousand hundred bracelets? How can you live on the payments that a single mother makes on a child? And how do you end up with those utility bills today, at those prices in stores, and at those prices for the drugs that are available today? Therefore, if we do not want to commit genocide, the Government must now sit down and address this issue, establishing a register of vulnerable populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Wesselov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u154	The very idea of the bill is very commendable, to raise the level of social protection of the population's income categories. But now what we're talking about is that we have to narrow down by the benefits, we're now taking some inefficient benefits from people, and in this bill we're proposing to expand the circle of benefits. In addition, I support the profile committee’s view that such assistance should be targeted. That is, whether a person really needs this treatment free of charge or not. And they're not children anymore, like at least they're 29 years old, so we're not talking about a category of children. In addition, these people who need medical care and testing are usually disabled and are already using these benefits. So the self-help union proposes not to vote in favour of this bill, to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u155	Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u156	He who has no memory has no future. And if we forget about the heroes that saved our country many years ago, we have no future to mention just today's heroes. Who will also realize that in a few decades they will be forgotten in the same way. I mean, all the talk that's not enough money, we don't take it. As the Fatherland Party, we're again asking questions about dividend taxation. I propose to all who love mathematics or to look at all the declarations made today by government officials. Do you think someone's showing a salary? Look, everybody's showing dividends that are now taxed on 5 percent. Five percent! And we put 15 percent of our pension on the last little money! Therefore, dear friends, it is enough to say that there is not enough money for those who have suffered in the name of Ukraine to return to taxation, as in Europe, with taxes of 25 percent. We will have enough to index pensions and to support the Chernobyl population. Thank you. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected black people, those who saved our country from nuclear disaster and disaster! You know that the Radical Party faction and our team are always on guard for the interests of the Ukrainians and the common people. And we will certainly vote in Parliament and we will continue to vote in favour of all the laws that allow for the protection of your rights. But at the same time, we are firmly opposed to the pharisaism, against the lie, against the blasphemy that is being demonstrated today by representatives of the so-called "thief block." An interview with the government of Yanukovich served as the minister of social policy. Then why didn't you protect the Chernobyls, Natalie? Why, then, did they pick them up? Why were you forced to beat up the last money instead of sitting in the house, walking around the Cabins? Why did your patron Azarov manually manage the Chernobyl payments and rob these people? So don't go "wolfs in sheep's clothing" even if they're from Louis Whitton. You look like wolves anyway!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u159	May we proceed to the vote, Your Honor? Please prepare for the vote, identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the vote, okay? I'll give you a minute after the vote. Okay? Please, Your Honor, the draft Act (1336) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Health Care of Children in the Elimination of the Effects of the Accident at Chernobyl AES and evacuated from the Aliens Zone (registration number 1336). Please be sure about the vote. [[13:29:50]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Please, Royal, one minute is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! I would like to request that this law be put to the vote again. Please, we can do it tomorrow, we can do it tomorrow, but we need to understand this about our 18-year-olds who are unable to do it today and who have no opportunity to buy their own medicine. You went to the pharmacies yourself, and you saw that today the prices of drugs in pharmacies were higher than in a jewelry store on a gram of gold. Allow the next generation to grow up to be socially protected. Allow today's children 18-year-olds who have suffered from an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station to receive support from the State. Well, unjustly, today the victims of the crisis and the non-professionalism of the current power to hostage children, to hostage veterans, Chernobyls, Afghans, to every pensioner in our country. Give it back to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u161	Thank you. We are continuing our consideration of the order of the day. The next bill we have to consider is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect the population from infectious diseases (No.1729). There is an offer from the authors of the law to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like the people's deputies to support you. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:31:50]] For-147 I see the MPs aren't able to get to their jobs. And that's why we're going to vote again for the shortened procedure. Please support a simplified procedure for handling the matter. Vote. [[13:32:16]] For-164 Thank you. Thus, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tetjana Dmitrovna, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u162	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 1729 had already been drafted in the past, and 326 people's deputies voted for it in the first reading. It had been prepared for second reading, but unfortunately, the Committee had had sufficient amendments but had not been considered. People's deputies: Bahechev, Bilvol, Musi, Shipko, Kirichenko, representing the factions of today's parliament and group, drafted a 1729 bill on the fact that today's confidence in vaccine prevention has dropped significantly as the most reliable way to protect against infectious diseases in our country. These are diseases such as diphtheria and pertussis, and tetanus, and tuberculosis. Unfortunately, this percentage is between 40 and 45 per cent, and there are even vaccines in which there are no more than 20 per cent. Because the bill was adopted first, the first on vaccine prevention in 1994, and then very minor amendments were adopted in 2000. Thus, almost all 24 years have not been considered, and a vaccination plan is being drawn up, which has not been revised for five, seven, eight years. The health and epidemiological situation is not studied, and children are vaccinated against diseases that may not be necessary. We have studied international experience and have found that such important changes are needed. These are first of all clear, clear changes in the terminology apparatus, then a mandatory annual revision of the vaccination calendar, but not every five years at 7 and 10 years, as it is in the entire civilized world. Then it's very important. I'd like you to listen to me very carefully. This is article 15. People's deputies who express themselves today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u163	Please give us the opportunity to finish. How many seconds? Two? Let's do one. One minute, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u164	The main issue is the temporary refusal to visit a child institution for a period of ill-treatment if the child fails to inculcate, but is the epidemic. I mean, it's not a total denial, because it's not an international one, it's an uncivilized rule, and we're in the country buying false evidence that the child is vaccinated. We have to put an end to this. The main scientific and expert office is on the ground. The profile committee is on the lookout. Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women Anti-corruption does not see the risk of corruption. I am deeply convinced that each of us understands that it is not a policy, it is a matter of health and life for Ukrainian children. That is why it is a very important bill and we need to look closely at it and necessarily support it on first reading, and for second reading with all amendments we will give a good law which.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u165	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Health Committee, Bogholic Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! For the time being, the situation in the country is catastrophic. Today, we do not meet the requirements of the European Union and are approaching the epidemic threshold. Today, only 8 per cent of children are vaccinated with tuberculosis, 3.2 per cent polio, cough, diphtheria, right 4.3 per cent; 2.3 per cent hemophiliac infection; parotit crust, 10 per cent redness; and 2 per cent hepatitis. Regrettably, this law, which is now put to the vote, is also philosophical. On the one hand, rejection of compulsory vaccination is now viewed in society as a democratic position of parents who can decide whether to give polio shots or not. From the point of view of the European Union’s requirements, these vaccinations must be compulsory. And on the one hand, this law democratizes society, on the other hand, it actually violates the requirements of the European Union. Therefore, I now ask our presiding officer to give the floor to the Ministry of Health, as well as to the national MPs, who have different positions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u167	What is your proposal, how to vote? Okay, what's your proposal for a vote? Thank you. So the people's deputies, according to the Rules, write two for, two against, to express their positions. Please record. Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich, Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u168	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u169	It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Most of us are parents in this room. And I have no doubt that those present and those who now profit from buttons will solve the problem for their children with vaccination. They'll find a quality vaccine, they'll do it in time. But let's think about how millions of families in our country are abandoned today. What we heard today are the figures that the head of the committee said were catastrophic with vaccination, that children today are not being vaccinated with tuberculosis, red blood cells, hepatitis, polio. That we can repeat the massive outbreak of the epidemic in Ukraine. And we certainly need to make responsible decisions. The opposition bloc will support the bill. We will do our utmost to ensure that children in our country have the guaranteed right to choose a vaccine. So that their rights may not be limited in principle, to whom they have been vaccinated and to whom they have not been vaccinated. And so that the vaccinations will be sorted in our country today. To stop the disaster that the entire health system is in today. Because it's hard to do vaccinations in Kiev today. Not to mention small towns, not to mention district centers, where no drugs were taken six months ago. And people are forced by their efforts, by some circumstantial means, to deal with the protection of their children. Protect the children, please vote for the bill. For second reading, we will prepare all necessary amendments. And I am sure that this will help our children today. And how do we know that the decision of the committee was to support this bill, which, unfortunately, we have not heard of at this time. We therefore ask for the support of the decision of the committee in the field, the doctors of Parliament and the protection of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u171	Thank you. Please welcome Musei Oleg Stepanovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to listen to the committee's opinion and to the idea of what's going on right now. In fact, we have a proponent with vaccinations in Ukraine. You all know, probably not once have you witnessed how they require information about the vaccination of our children or preschools or schools. You know how these help books are bought. In fact, there is now a corruption scheme that parents instead of actually injecting their children or giving up vaccination, which they also have the right to according to the Constitution, go and carry money to doctors. If we want to leave corruption schemes and then again accuse the medics of corruption, we certainly should not react or accept this bill. Instead, I think that the adoption of this bill will oblige our medics, on the one hand, and oblige parents to take responsibility for the vaccination. In addition, we've heard terrible figures that 3 percent, 8 percent of children have been vaccinated. If we are governed by existing legislation, our children should not go to kindergarten or go to school at all. Instead, the adoption of this bill will give us an honest relationship in society and give us the right to choose the parents they have today, legally not to pay money, on the one hand, because of beliefs from family doctors, pediatricians, from international organizations, as is the case everywhere in the world, to allow them to receive vaccinations or not to accept them. That's why I'm asking. Moreover, we will have time for second reading if there are any disagreements. I ask everyone to support the committee's decision and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u173	Thank you. Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u174	Depreciating one of the most powerful tools of human health that has saved the world from pandemics and epidemics to the full, do you know what and especially in recent years? Because of the fantastically innocuous and counterfeit vaccines that entered the market, they were indeed complications. But not from vaccination, but from the content of the counterfeit substance, which is inconvenient, imported into the Ukraine market. And today, no doubt, parents defend themselves. And this law has nothing to do with it. When Father does not want to vaccinate, he writes a statement, including a father’s application, because it is a matter of father and mother, for I am the same father and mother. This law, I support Mrs. Mantis, does not solve the philosophical problem of doing or not doing. The state must assume the responsibility of teaching people to protect their health. And that's why the law needs to be done. He is needed, he poses a problem, but he does not solve it. So there's an offer to send him to the committee for work. Do not make fun of people’s health, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u175	Thank you. I now give Jarinitch my word. I will give you my word, Mrs. Kugel, and I will give you my word. Please, Jarinich's word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, there's been a situation where we're considering different bills because they say one thing from this rostrum, and they mean another. I'll tell you that this bill has a very important negative. This is what parents today will decide for themselves whether to vaccinate their children or not, according to the bill. We are now in a preconceived state in the country. The epidemic situation is that if we now give this law the authority of parents to resolve this issue, we will have our vaccinations abolished in the state at all. I urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of this bill, to send it for further processing and perhaps with serious amendments to return it to this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u177	Thank you. It's Shipko's word. Then Oxana Sold. Then there's Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rebirth Group will support this bill because it does, first, what we do is we give European approach to immunoprophylactics. Yes, we think that immunoprophylactics is the barrier that will protect children's health. But you yourself have heard these numbers today, which are terrible: 8 percent of the vaccine from tuberculosis, 2 percent from polio. Dear colleagues, listen to me, please! Because we need to adopt this bill today because it is. Where are our children going? They, if not vaccinated, go and buy all the certificates they go to preschools. Please, let's stop this corruption in the health field, because the Rebirth Group is really for the real restoration of health in our country. Because today we will listen to the minister of health and we will be asking the first questions about immunoprotection in our country. And today I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u179	Thank you. Please turn on Oksana Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, mandatory immunization advocates are now talking about us standing at the threshold of the epidemic. But this is at a time when the vaccine is actually mandatory. Today, no parent has the right to take his child to a garden or school if he fails to provide help that is a habit. At the same time, health officials say that this is not helpful. And I'll tell you why, because if I don't believe in this vaccine, I won't. And I am motivated by the current Soviet norm, to engage in corruption. I ask everyone to support this bill and allow each of us to believe in the State, to give the State the responsibility to convince us that the State is really a vaccine for protecting Ukrainian citizens. But to give every citizen the right to choose his future on his own, not through Soviet laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u182	In full support of Oksana Prodan, you will hear why women have taken such an active part. Because we have children, we have grandchildren, and every time we take a child on vaccination today, we don't know how this vaccine ends. But the issue of the country’s responsibility for these vaccines should be the Ministry of Health. I understand what Mr. Beresuk was talking about, not quality vaccines. But if you'll excuse me, have we ever had a contest for the appointment of the Derbykinspection? Every time it's a corrupt assignment, every time it's a corrupt food. Therefore, those who make compulsory vaccination today are the ones who want to continue to earn money for our children’s death. We need to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so that we do not have an endless discussion. Since an important bill, I give the floor to those factions who did not take the word that did not go into discussion, but I ask you to limit yourself. Now, Igor Šurma, then Kirichenko, and then we'll finish our discussion of the deputies. Please, Igor Shurma, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u184	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I want to tell everyone that I also have grandchildren and grandchildren, and I have to tell you, if I always live and say so for my children and grandchildren. There will be no calendar plan, no lists of vaccines that will be installed by the Ministry of Health, we will talk about inadequacy, and we will have major problems. I want to focus now, Mr. Andrew, on the other side of the concept, and I don't understand, I'm going to read you an extract from the Health Committee. In view of the Supreme Council’s Committee on Health, the Supreme Council recommends that Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws be adopted as a basis for adoption by the Supreme Council. — Registration No. 1729. A draft decision is added. The Coroner is proposing to appoint the deputy head of the Sisoyenko Irina Committee, and why the committee chairman is speaking and not telling the truth that the committee has been asked this question of pure culture and some responsibility. We have to vote "yes" on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u185	Thank you. May I have Kirichenko's word, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u186	I read that, in particular, Oleg Berezuk has just said that parents have the right to choose, and he focuses on that. But according to the law in force, vaccination is mandatory and parents have no choice but to use a corrupt scheme. If we say, in particular, polio, and we've got 3.2 percent, that's a deadly disease. We have to give people the opportunity to at least show what they were doing and what they didn't do. Otherwise it's just nonsense! It's a false reference that people call, show everything. This is total corruption, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u187	I'll give the final word to the Ministry. First Deputy Minister of Health Pavelenko Alexandre I'm just asking you to make a proposal at the end, as you recommend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u188	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, both on the profile committee and today in the session room, we ask that the bill be returned for processing. I want to say that I listened carefully to every report I had made before me, and there is now a very serious substitution of ideas in the session room. You are talking about practically confirming the vaccination took place or not. And we are now talking about his responsibilities or his responsibilities. If there is a question, and I fully agree that doctors may not have behaved professionally enough and published, perhaps through corrupt schemes, this is a second question. Please provide a bill that will regulate the vaccination validation procedure itself. As for the necessity, I would like to draw your attention: if we didn't hear each other, and now we would look at the text that we've been offered to vote on, we would see what we're offered to cancel and what we're offered to introduce. Please note that we are being offered total rejection of article 27 of the Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare of the Country, this article is called Prevention. Vaccination." We are offered complete rejection of this article. This is an important article. As a lawyer, I point out that it is numerous. many questions that need to be left in the law. Next word. If you look at the proposals, we're asked to enter, at least. If you don't mind, I want to make a very important deal. If we are already raising questions about mandatory vaccinations in European countries, in the United States, where the level of health care is much higher than in Ukraine, the need for vaccination is mandatory, and refusal of vaccination under legislation is considered a lack of parental care. Please return it for further processing, we'll work it out on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-08-m0.u189	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the voting room. Please take your jobs, get as close as you can. And so we got two suggestions during the discussion. One proposal, which will be the first, is for the committee to adopt the bill as a basis. That's what it is. An expert panel proposal is allowed, so I'm going to put this proposal to the vote first. If it doesn't pass, I'm going to put the next sentence to the vote: return to processing. So please prepare for the vote. The draft Law on Amendments is the subject of the vote. No, I'm sorry. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect the population from infectious diseases (registration number 1729) on the basis of Who supports the adoption of this bill on the basis, please vote. Please. [[13:54:45]] For 132 The proposal: Unfortunately, it did not get the required number of votes. During the discussion, another suggestion was made: To be sent to the committee for rereading. And now I'm going to put this motion to a vote. I very much ask the MPs to vote and decide on this bill. Thus, the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect the population from infectious diseases is put to the vote, and it is directed to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[13:55:44]] For 211 I see they're giving me signals that not everyone has been able to vote. I'm going to ask the deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall for their jobs. And I'll be right back. And don't come out of the hall, please, but go into the hall. I'm now revoting Bill 1729 to send to the committee for re-reading. Please support this proposal by voting. Please vote. [[13:56:33]] For the 220. Hence, none of the proposals raised the required number of votes. That's why we're moving. I've got a 15-minute meeting at the chairman's right. [[B in m in s a l in]] No votes, right? We have three minutes before we finish work. I can see that it's hard to go to a successful vote with as many votes as there are in the room, and it's too bad. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. I very much ask all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of deputies for work so that we can work fully. And this morning's session, I'm calling it closed. Thank you. I recommend that we work productively on the committees so that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we can work as hard as we do. Thank you. Good-bye.
