ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I'd like all the national deputies to come into the hall, take their seats, prepare for registration. Today we have an extremely responsible day. We worked with you yesterday, made a number of decisions. And I can say that they're quite effective. The ratification of a series of agreements has made it possible today to simplify the terms and conditions of sale of Ukrainian goods in WTO mode. And it's going to be a front-row economy for customs for Ukraine, 13-15 percent. Plus we ratified a number of airline agreements. Today we have an extremely responsible, extremely responsible day. We're going to be discussing the visa-free regime with you. Today, as previously said, the next order of action is planned. It's a block of questions on the implementation of the visa-free regime for Ukrainians. The next position is to consider reducing rent per gas. The next issue, which is extremely important, is the question of continuing the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Today, we will consider the Labour Code. These are all questions that are impeccable. And separately, we're going to consider more questions about the election at Donbassa, where they didn't happen. Today it is the personal responsibility of each national MP for his position in the Supreme Council Hall, for his participation in the Supreme Council and for the vote. I call upon all of us today to unite around each and every ordinary Ukrainian citizen to be able to move freely through the European Union and, finally, today, Parliament has taken a fundamental step to ensure that this iron curtain, which has been separating us from the only European family for decades, has collapsed, and people have been able to move peacefully in the countries of Europe without queues in embassies, consulates. I think this question is very important to us, as is the questions we just talked about. So I ask everyone for consolidation, for normal system and quality work, and for a positive result. We have to go through the agenda today and make all the necessary decisions. Dear colleagues, please prepare to register. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:05:23]] Dear colleagues, 317 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that our partners are present at the Supreme Council Hall. Attention! Attention, fellow officers! I would like to inform you that our colleagues, MEPs of the European Parliament, are in the Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the heads and members of the Committee, the Committee of the Association of the European Union and Ukraine, headed by Mr. Plenkovic. Let's say hello! [[Applause]] Head of the committee, our colleague, Ostap Semerak, and Ambassador of the European Union to Ukraine, Jan Tombinsky. [[Applause]] My friends, we are very grateful that today, at this important moment, you are with us. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our fellow national MP, Mr. Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, on his birthday. Welcome, Victor Vasilovich. Happy birthday. Dear colleagues, the agenda is designed in such a way that we have a number of questions. Dear colleagues of the National MPs, the Ukrainian Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk is present. Welcome. Dear colleagues, let's consult, we can immediately move on to the agenda of the day, to the agenda of the day, which we have scheduled for today. I would then ask all the national deputies to take their seats. I'm going to make a signal vote right now to find out if we currently have enough space to make decisions about the inclusion of issues in the agenda, including decisions relating to and the introduction of a visa-free regime. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote on the agenda for consideration and decision after consideration by the committees. 3154, question, draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (for immediate consideration by the courts of an action for forced discharge or detention for the purpose of identifying and ensuring the forced removal of aliens and persons without citizenship or ensuring the transfer of aliens and stateless persons in accordance with international readmission agreements. It's a question of inclusion in the agenda. We're about to make a signal vote. If we don't have enough votes, we're going to go over the questions in the first reading according to the order of the day. Do you have a deal? Please, Your Honor, vote on the inclusion of agenda issues: 3154, submitted by the Government of Ukraine. It's for inclusion, for signal voting, for the daytime. Ready? Vote, Your Honor, a signal vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[10:10:34]] For 221 Almost enough. Dear colleagues, I understand. Please concentrate. 3154: draft law introduced by the Government for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We have here three government bills that have been introduced. Please, 3154, enrollment in the daytime, colleagues. Please vote, please support. It's all about being visa-free, getting in the daytime. Please support, we vote. Integrating into the agenda, please support. [[10:11:16]] For 227 227 -- decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, please support, it's a package of gauze that's going to be processed. 3224 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations under visa liberalisation with the European Union. We don't discuss this inclusion in the agenda. Please, 3224, enrollment in the daytime, all of it. We'll discuss it, we'll consider it. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[10:12:13]] For 235 It's on. We'll continue when we look at it. 3371 and 3371-1: draft Law on the provision of voting in the next election of city council members and city heads in the cities of Krasnoarmian and Mariupoli of the Donetsk Region in 2015. Also registered, the issue needs to be settled. I ask him to be included in the agenda we will consider, we will continue to determine. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:12:51]] For 237 Thank you, Your Honor. 3196: Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (with regard to the irreparability of punishing persons who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). This is a question that only comes into the order of the day session. Yesterday, Anton Gerashchenko reported, you remember, 3196. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote 3196, inclusion, please vote. 3196. [[10:13:31]] For 186 He didn't get the necessary amount, 186. 3197: Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for terms of pretrial investigation). Integrating into the agenda of the session, please be sure to vote. Please support 3197, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:13:58]] For 168 Also, 168 did not get the required number of votes. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (for State Administration expenses) 3191. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. 3191, we vote. 3191, inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleague. [[10:14:24]] For 202 He did not get the required number of votes, 202. And 3387, an important bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Police, a colleague. It's the National Police Act. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support, my friends. Functioning of the National Police of Ukraine Please be supportive. [[10:14:55]] For 216 How's that? It's an order of the day law. Well, look at the first question. 3387, colleagues, again. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Police. Do you have it? Yes. Please support this. Huh? Should we? Integrating in the daytime order. Yuri Lucenko, a minute, will explain what the question is. Please. 3387. And let's move on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Now there's a request to include and even to make a decision under the law that introduces the term "National Police" into a large list of laws where the "Military" or the IMF still stands. I explain that on November 7th, there will be a "red day of the calendar" when the post-Radians police will disappear and the Ukrainian National Police will function exclusively in its place. But in many laws -- about insurance, about burial, about other common people, the word "militia" goes on. This law simply changes the militia to the National Police, and this will enable Ukrainians to use legislative opportunities for their rights in everyday life. The request to uphold essentially the technical law, but it is very important for the rights of millions of our electorates to be realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u3	Thank you for your explanation, Yuri Vitaliyovich, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law. Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[10:16:50]] For 253 Thank you. 253. Decisions have been made. Dear colleagues, we will consider a number of human resources issues a little later. Now, before we begin. Dear colleagues, before we consider the issue in the first reading. Dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the agenda, I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u4	Mr. Head, honourable parliamentary factions and factions of the coalition, dear faction of the People's Front! First of all, I would like to mark a very good level of cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council, and I would like to thank all members of Parliament separately for agreeing on virtually all the bills that need to be adopted. Indeed, in the process of preparing the bills for the committee’s second reading, the government met. And we can boldly say that the lion’s portion of the laws today will be adopted in the second reading and in general. I'm going to start with technical stuff so that there's no resistance here, in the Parliamentary Hall, on separate bills, so that we can make a decision right away, how we can anticipate further work under legislation. Mr. Head, here's your next offer. In view of the fact that we did not reach a final agreement on Law 3224 during the committee meeting yesterday. This is a law that confirms Ukrainian citizenship, certifys a person or his or her special status. The government is ready to return this law to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're working on it after yesterday's faction consultations, and the next plenary week, we're ready to present it to Parliament and accept it as a basis and as a whole, if the will of the Ukrainian Parliament is to do so. In particular, I would also like to point out that Mrs. Denisov's committee chairman has taken very important steps to implement the Labour Code, and I would like to thank you separately from the government for this. As for other bills that caused some misunderstandings, this is bill 2540 and 2541a. There is a request that when we consider these bills, we do not clear them and change the substance and form of the laws, but through all the articles that were proposed for second reading, we go to the point where the laws that we adopt meet the criteria set by the European Union. That is, walk all over the table and vote for the correct amendments. The country's honourable national deputies, today I am going to Riga, and there will be a meeting of four prime ministers of Ukraine, three countries members of the European Union and the Ukrainian government. And the main agenda for this meeting is, of course, to provide a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. This is the implementation of the reform plan and the European Union's assistance for Ukraine's reform. Only if we help ourselves will we be helped. That is why I am asking members of Parliament to vote on all the bills today to give further arguments to our European partners that Ukrainian citizens deserve a visa-free regime because the Ukrainian Parliament knows what political responsibility and political unity are, and will adopt all the laws necessary to ensure the visa-free travel of Ukrainian citizens to the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have another law, it's a budget change. The Committee on Budgets requests that I put him to the vote again. 3191: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015, it is on our schedule. For inclusion in the agenda, 3191. Please vote. 3191. Integrating into the agenda, please vote. It's just inclusion in the agenda. Presentation of the Budget Committee. [[10:22:05]] For 215 Colleagues, 3191, the inclusion in the agenda of the Budget Committee changes to the 15th year budget. Once again, I ask you to determine by vote. Please, 3191. [[10:22:34]] For 223 Listen, come on, colleagues. My colleagues, thank you. Let's move on. We'll still be able to get back into the agenda. Honorary colleagues, draft law (registration number 3115), draft Ordinance amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Election Order. Oh, that's human resources, I think we'll deal with them later. 3155: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection to improve the procedure for documenting persons. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. For consideration of the simplified procedure of the draft law. [[10:23:34]] For-182 The decision has been made. Thank you. First Deputy Head of the State Migration Service, Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons requiring Additional or Temporary Protection. The draft law has been developed by the National Migration Service of Ukraine for the purpose of providing and carrying out deadlines for the preparation and certification of refugees, as defined in article 10 of the Act, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Single National Demographic Register and the documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his or her special status. Article 33 states that the specified document is drafted and issued within 15 working days of the date of the decision to recognize a foreigner or a person without citizenship as a refugee in Ukraine. It is also proposed that the State Migration Service should be empowered to provide descriptions in decisions on refugee recognition or a person who needs additional protection for those taken, including before this law takes effect, to make a decision to make corrections to those decisions. This will enable persons who are recognized as refugees or persons in need of additional protection in Ukraine to provide appropriate supporting documents or written arguments to document the correct establishment. The implementation of the draft Ukrainian Law does not require any additional expenditure on the budget. The draft Decision was agreed without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Administration of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. The Ministry of Economics of Ukraine made comments that were taken into account. The Ministry of Justice has made observations in part of the standard-based technique that has been taken into account. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u7	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemir.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On October 7, the Human Rights Committee considered Bill 3155. Once the substance of the changes has been explained, they're more procedural and technical than conceptual. It is a matter of being able to correct errors more quickly if they are detected, in order to avoid, as appropriate, the data which contradict each other in the necessary documents, and in doing so it is necessary to bring into line with the Law on the Single National Demographic Register. The Committee supported such amendments. Also, the Chief Research Administration recommends the adoption of this law in the first reading and on the basis. In view of the technical nature of this law, we may also need to agree on a shorter deadline for preparing this law for the second reading. I'd like a colleague of the people's deputies to support this bill for adoption as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u9	Dear fellow national MPs! Please sign up: two for, two against. Please. Please, Roman Semenha, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u10	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! This bill, fortunately, is truly thought out, prepared, for which we can actually vote. The transfer, the increase in time, is more faithful, from 7 to 15 days is also justified. And unfortunately, this bill, 3155, is not the only one that is actually qualitatively worked out of a so-called visa-free package. If the Cabinet of Ministers, the people who are drafting bills that we can theoretically get a visa-free regime will continue to work in this mode, we will never get a visa-free regime. It is naive to think that representatives of the European Union will give visa-free treatment only for the names of the laws, not for their own purposes and how they will continue to work. So these laws that are now being considered under the name of a visa-free regime, we need to consider in detail whether, in fact, the conditions that result from the adoption of laws for our citizens improve their status or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u12	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u13	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. Dear colleagues! It's actually a technical bill. However, it would be important to think about the terms during which changes are made so that there are no deliberate delays in the consideration of changes in refugee data. But at the same time, we have to vote for this bill today, as this is a very important thing. And I think the hall will support it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u14	Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would like to take the floor from the Committee on European Integration and say that, in fact, today, there are several bills on the agenda that belong to Ukraine's commitments to implement the visa liberalisation action plan on migration policy. And the bill that we're currently looking at, as all colleagues have stressed, is purely technical, it's high enough by the government. We support the vote, as does our Euro-Integration Committee for this bill. And we support the position of Mr. Nemira's friendly Human Rights Committee that he needs to be prepared for the second reading in the short-term because there are purely technical remedies. Please vote for the first reading and for the brief procedure for the consideration and preparation of this bill for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We've heard different thoughts about this project today. But overall support. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 3155: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection to improve the procedure for documenting persons. 3155, based on. Please vote and please support. On the ground, colleagues, we vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Based on the base. [[10:31:23]] For 273 The law in the first reading was approved as a basis. Let's move on. 3159: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal protection of foreigners and stateless persons and to resolve individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration. There's an offer by the reporter to brief him. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[10:31:59]] For-167 Please, 167 votes. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation to improve the legal protection of foreigners and stateless persons and to settle individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration. The draft law has been developed by the State Migration Service to implement the EU recommendations contained in the fifth report of the European Commission on Ukraine's progress in implementing the visa liberalisation plan and taking into account the EU Directive of 2008 on common standards and procedures for Member States to return third-country nationals for their illegal stay. The draft act provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice to be supplemented by a new article on the characteristics of the conduct in matters of detention of foreigners and stateless persons who are subject to forced discharge in part of the determination of the conditions and deadlines for the detention of such persons in accordance with EU Directives. The urgency of dealing with the listed categories of cases, as well as the terms of the hearing and the prosecution of decisions. Identify bodies to which foreign and stateless persons may be brought for the purpose of establishing their individual and determining the circumstances of the offence. The Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship introduced a rule to improve the placement of foreigners and stateless persons to temporary residences, as well as the formation of this category of persons if released from the premises for permanent or temporary residence. Amendments to the Ukrainian Free Legal Assistance Act provide that refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection of their rights should be detained for identification and enforcement purposes from the time the listed categories of persons have submitted documents to obtain their status and are suing their detention decisions. The bill agrees with the administration of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The adoption of proposed amendments to Ukraine’s legislative acts will help improve migration legislation. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u18	Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, Bill 3159 was also considered at the meeting of the committee on October 29. Now, when I consider this bill, I would like to confirm the point made by a self-help colleague that this is one of the examples of a bill that is being introduced to implement a plan of action in terms of a procedure that was not followed by the Cabinet of Ministers. From the point of view of the quality of this bill, which has led to serious comments not only by the committee members, the expert environment, but also by representatives of the central executive bodies themselves, it is an example of how not to prepare bills from an important topic, in particular. How can it be that a bill submitted as a priority to implement a plan of action does not have legal expertise from the Ministry of Justice? How can it be that he did not agree with the central authorities of the executive branch? How can it be that, at a meeting of the Ukrainian Security Service Committee, the State Border Service Administration, the Supreme Administrative Court made serious comments about the bill? And we have a precedent here when the Science and Experimental Authority has given destructive criticism to this bill, with a recommendation to send for further work. We had a heated discussion on the committee, during which a representative of the People's Front assured us that he would do whatever it took to get this done before the second reading. And only then did the committee decide to recommend it for consideration in the first reading, but I repeat, it's seriously raw, it's unworked.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u20	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Oleg Barn, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u21	I give the word to Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u22	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u23	I am very grateful to your honorary colleague Barney, and I have only here to confirm these conclusions that have been made by our previous colleagues from the Human Rights Committee. Regrettably, this bill is an example of how such serious bills can not be prepared, which are indeed Ukraine’s obligations to implement the visa liberalisation plan, both after the submission to the Supreme Council and after the comments they have made. Similarly, on the Committee on European Integration and on our later faction, the "Peter Prashenko Block" was a very heated discussion on this bill. And we see all of these flaws that we have to work on. But given the strict terms that are before Parliament today on the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, we want to turn to both our faction and the Committee on European Integration with the decision we have made. We vote together in the first reading. Mr. Head, please give us the task of forming a working group that is working on this bill for the second reading, as we have done with other bills to make it ideal. Because, really, it's about protecting those people who don't have proper status there, they're non-citizens. But it doesn't take into account the position here of the Ministry of Probability Justice, nor does it count here, for example, the position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the possibility of retaining these citizens without status for up to 18 months at the appropriate points. All of this needs to be worked out. The Committee on European Integration and our faction of the BBC are now ready to join this bill as soon as possible. But today we are voting together to get a visa-free regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u24	Please. Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I can tell you where we can find extra money for Ukraine's budget. We need to eliminate the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration and Legal Authority, because nobody cares about their findings, nobody reads them. At the same time, if this bill refers to the fate of both foreigners and stateless persons, those legal "slaps", which, unfortunately, were allowed in the drafting of this bill, do not withstand any criticism. This is a direct conflict with the Law on the Status of Persons. foreigners and stateless persons. This is a unique norm for the immediate consideration of the issue of drainage, while it is necessary to ensure that a person has the right to quality protection of his or her interests in court by objectively and legally deciding the fate of a citizen. If we don't agree with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, a professional committee would have a literate and thorough explanation of why the Supreme Council should disagree with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which has shattered the bill. But none of the words that would motivate why the Chief Scientific Expert's conclusion is incorrect were written. Dear Cabinet of Ministers! Whoever drafts the bill, please consider it because the subject is extremely relevant because the question of how to disembowel foreigners and non-citizens is an extremely relevant issue. Yes, this problem really needs a solution, including, in the direction of visa liberalisation, but not in that way. Once again, the laws won't give us a visa-free regime. Europeans will read not only the names of laws but also their contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u27	The word is passed on to the representative of Logwine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u28	The national deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, dear friends! First of all, I would like to thank all those persons who have found a point in this bill. He does have them, but it should be understood that this bill is not intended solely for activities related to a package of visa-free regimes; it contains many very positive norms that have been developed with experts from Ukraine, international experts. That's why I agree that there are these problems, but we don't have to look for problems, we have to find ways to solve them. That's why, Mr. Sidorovich, that's why, other colleagues, we've already admitted that we're going to make a working group -- and all of these mistakes that are now in existence, we're going to be able to correct them in a second reading. That is why I urge all in attendance not to slow down the process, to continue it, to correct the bill in accordance with the rules of law and not to slow down the time. I ask everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u30	Please, Vasile Nimchenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the attempt to introduce to the legal regulation of the Code of Administrative Justice a relationship that cannot be there. Administrative justice provides for the right of citizens to be protected from the will of the State, and read the article of the second. And we want the Inquisition rule on dispossessing of citizens to be transferred to this very Code of Administrative Justice. Therefore, this bill is not subject to substantive consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. I think we've found a very difficult decision here. Now I'm going to put 3159 to the vote on a basis, and then we're going to set up a working group to prepare for the second reading. The working group will also be joined by the national deputy Sidorovich, who will lead the group, and the Logwinsky. Plus a profile committee, a committee of European integration. We make changes, and for the second reading he will be prepared as necessary to settle the matter. Do you have a deal? But we're doing this now. Friends, please take our seats, prepare for the vote. 3159 on a base. On the condition that we make a working group and prepare it together for the second reading. Please support 3159 as a base. And immediately after the vote, there will be a commission to create such a group. Please vote. Please support the base, colleagues, 3159 as a basis. [[10:44:42]] For 273 The law has been passed. Thank you for understanding all your colleagues. Ruslan Sidorovich and the national deputy of Logwinsky, lead the working group according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council and work on the second reading as important as this law is. Dear colleagues, 3171: Draft Act amending the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine to establish birth or death in a temporarily occupied territory. Reported by Justice Minister Paul Petrenko. There is a suggestion to report on the reduced procedure, please support this proposal. [[10:45:30.]] For 181 Please, Minister, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. To your attention, we propose Bill 3171 to amend the Civil Procedural Code to establish birth or death in temporarily occupied areas. You know that our Ukrainian citizens now living in the territory of annexed Crimea in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, where they are effectively controlled by Russian militants, have a whole range of very serious difficulties, including those relating to the formation of those legal facts about birth and death that actually require decisions by the authorities of the state. Today, what is included in the legal field has enabled the state to register births and deaths in any registration agency in Ukraine, which is controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. However, our citizens who live there are unable to form a package of documents for such registration. And that's why we, together with experts from the Council of Europe, with civil society organizations, have developed this bill with activists, which is the essence of the following. Those Ukrainian citizens who want to receive legitimate birth and death papers and civil registrations will be able to contact any judicial authority in Ukraine and within 24 hours to obtain a court decision that will determine the fact that there is a legally significant fact about birth and death. These decisions will be registered in any RAGS throughout Ukraine. Please support this bill in the first reading and allow those Ukrainian citizens who do not want to receive defective and illegal documents in the illegal bodies of annexed Crimea and Donetsk and Lugansk to obtain our Ukrainian documents in Ukraine. Please support in the first reading. The PIC came to a positive conclusion and asked Parliament to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Please report, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Well, the minister in principle has already translated the quintension of the law. I don't think there's any point in talking again. Indeed, it is an extremely pressing problem for those Ukrainians who want their children to receive a Ukrainian birth certificate and, if so, for their relatives to die, a Ukrainian death certificate for a citizen. But there are a number of issues that the committee has pointed to. I'd like the session room to pay attention to them. The point is that, as the minister rightly stated, the purpose of the law was to extend its operation to the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, as well as to the separate areas of Donetské and Lugansk. But we have different degrees of regulation of these areas by Ukrainian legislation. If, in relation to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol is governed by the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the occupied territory of Ukraine, which falls within the scope of this law, in relation to the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, you know, only the Supreme Council regulations are in force. So when we think of this law as falling under both one and the other territories, the committee has pointed out that this kind of formulation that is proposed is a general "in occupied territory" defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, possibly covering both that and that territory. While consideration of this issue in the second reading will certainly require further work so that the law will not be extended solely to those areas regulated in the legislative field. The second question. With regard to this law, he foresees that any court outside the occupied territory can accept as a local court. As an executive to make such a decision. However, it is worth noting that according to the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime of the occupied territories that extend to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, such courts can be only local courts of the city of Kiev that are defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u36	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u37	The Court of Appeal of Kiev That's why we need to bring this law into line with this law. And finally. The committee has a warning about whether to set a 24-hour deadline for the courts to deal with such a category of cases, because this can actually make it more difficult to deal with this issue in these terms, if the courts can't reach that kind of line, so to speak, it means that people will be deprived of their rights. We should, however, adapt to the general lines that exist, the question of the five-day period, the other terms, but I think that when we look at the second reading, we will definitely settle this issue. Therefore, I ask you to support the committee's position by supporting this bill only on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u38	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Igor Goose. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u39	Please pass it on to Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u40	Please, the national MP of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this bill has already been expected for about a year. This is a very important bill that renews the rights of persons who are currently protecting our state and remain in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and other territories in which anti-terrorist operations are being carried out as hostages. These people are protecting our nation and fighting for its independence. That's why they're now going to be facing problems that don't allow documents to be updated and evidenced for the time being. We have to worry, if we haven't been able to properly defend the rights of our citizens during the annexation, then we have to do whatever we can to protect our citizens. And that's why this bill is very important, very important. I ask all my colleagues to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u42	Please, People's Deputies of Semimenach, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u43	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u44	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! On another occasion, we face the problem that the very important thing about establishing the birth and death of our citizens in occupied areas is being solved in an entirely incorrect way. Question one. We have Crimea and Donbas, are they temporarily occupied or are they occupied forever? If they're temporarily occupied, why are we amending the Civil Procedure Code rather than the Special Status of Occupied Territories Act? The next question. Why do we confuse separate conduct with lateral conduct? How can such a category of matters allow for immediate action? This can clearly lead to a violation of the rights of our citizens. The Self-Help faction will support this bill in the first reading. Yet he needs very careful, very serious work. It's the same with the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank God that in this case the committee has managed to understand, at least in part, that the bill is far from perfect. And if we keep moving in that direction to get a visa-free regime, we'll never get one. Once again, the rights and interests of our citizens must be maintained properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have one proposition that is very important. But you and I can influence the quality of the bill, including through the introduction of alternative draft laws. We have this opportunity with you. And I think we need to use it more simply. And then we can improve the quality of the decisions we make. I urge you to just do it. Thank you. Please, Yuri Chizmar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Clearly, the law that provides for the guarantee of constitutional rights for our citizens in the occupied temporary territory and annexed territory is a very important issue and must be addressed. But I have a question about the style of how we look at it: we're looking at it at the angle of visa legalization. So I have a simple question. The Explanatory Note doesn't even specify what paragraph of the requirement we're adopting this law, which is what it has to do with visa liberalisation today. But at the same time, I see the promotion of similar laws, which goes into the section of the Minsk Treaties for their implementation, because we are legalizing to date, by implementing the rules of existing legislation, the rules on certain special regimes for the regulation of relations related to occupied and annexed territories. I mean, it seems to me that we're no longer talking about the return of the territory, we're not talking about getting the Lugansk and Donetsk region back under control by the end of the year. We're talking about the legalization of some occupied territory for which we have to create not only a separate law on the regime of these territories, but in all the normative documents to regulate literally everything, and tomorrow we're going to have a working relationship, and tomorrow we're going to have a family-marriage relationship. And so we're going to create some kind of individual, some kind of federal or maybe even a part of "state formation." So I think that this law is imperfect and that we need to understand its ideology. And just like we're going to pay attention to 24 hours. I don't understand why current legislation provides a general order for individual tours, for citizens living in unoccupied territory, and for accelerated order, for these areas. It's not clear yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Rephat Chubarov. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u49	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Our faction also supports this bill in its first reading. We'll vote yes. We must always think and systematically defend the rights of the citizens of Ukraine, who are now in occupied territory, until we return these territories. But I have both the appeal and the demand for the government to draft laws that protect citizens' rights, but not to implement more effective tools to protect the tens or tens of people who are thrown into the shadows of the FSB in Crimea, not to implement these tools is not effective, it is wrong. So, Mr. Minister of Justice, I demand that you, Prime Minister, these days, justify the legal basis and unlock the power supply for the Crimea Peninsula.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u50	Finish up, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u51	I'm done. As a warning of a brutal violation of human rights, the immediate release of hostages in Crimea. If that is not the case, we will not take action in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, head of the European Integration Committee, Irina Heratchenko, one minute. Please, Mrs. Irina. Members, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill responds to Ukraine’s commitment to a visa liberalisation plan in the context of the fifth report of the European Commission, which recommends that we take steps to move people to the territory of those who today have been held hostage. But I also want to say that on our committee there was, emotionally enough, a discussion of this bill, and we fully agree with our colleagues, Mr. Sidorovich and Mr. Knazevich, that we need to work on the second reading, and, first of all, on the impossibility of 24 hours, there can be a rule about a speedy trial, but it has to be realistic and some other rules of this law. And as for the other colleagues who criticized the Minsk Accords here. You know, you can criticize the agreements, but we have to help people. And when there are children born in that occupied territory today who receive help with some kind of misunderstood eagle and cannot move according to your logic, we have help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u55	We have to help Ukrainian citizens, and there are 2.5 million citizens in the occupied territories who are free to move, not to interfere. So the bill and ideology are right. Technically, it needs to be processed, and now it needs to be supported in the first reading. And then work on the profile committee. Let's vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. Then please take your seats. Draft Act 3171, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on the establishment of birth or death in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Friends, there's a full understanding of what we're about to consider and take as a basis this question as the result of the first reading. So please prepare for the vote. Please, 3171, on the ground. Please vote, please support, Your Honor, 3171 on the basis. Vote. [[11:00:34]] For-300 300 votes. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you. It's actually our shared responsibility, the adoption of decisions that will allow people to have a visa-free regime. And thank you for such a responsible position. Dear colleagues, draft law. draft Ukrainian Labour Code (Registration No. 1658) Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna. Colleagues, a very important question. We're looking at it as a whole because it's a draft of the system's Ukrainian Labour Code. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, labour legislation is outdated, since our country’s labour relations are regulated by the Labour Code, which has been in force since June 1, 1972. Of the 265 articles, 235 markedly changed, some of them repeatedly. In addition, there are a number of special laws, regulations, acts of the former Soviet Union and even decrees of the Council of National Commissioners of 1929, 1930, 1933, which conflict with one another and complicate the application of its provisions. Of the 15 post - Soviet states that once joined the Soviet Union, only Ukraine did not adopt a new legislation regulating employment relations. Repeatedly, legislative initiatives for a new project have been introduced to the walls of our Parliament. And that draft of the Labour Code that we are considering with you today is a document that reflects the work of all the national MPs who were part of the Committee on Social Policy of the last three calls, all the ministers of social policy of the previous periods, all the social partners who actively participate in the drafting of the Act. You can criticize the individual positions of the project. It can be said that certain standards need to be worked out, that the mechanism for the implementation and protection of the rights of all other subjects of employment needs to be better written. Yet all sides of the process realize that we have to adopt a single document that will be comprehensive, systematic, remove duplication and treat one or the other in different legislative acts. So you're looking at a document that provides for the codification and systematization of all legal acts that regulate labour relations. It sets out a mechanism to realize the constitutional rights of citizens to work, to receive their reward at the right time, to secure and healthy working conditions and recreation. It includes basic principles and the most important standards of the seven major ILO Conventions in the field of work ratified by Ukraine, the European Social Charter, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The project consists of nine books and includes 398 articles. This is the system document. Its position covers all spheres of employment from the beginning of the labor contract, its operation, and its termination. I would like to point out that its contents are fully incorporated into all the provisions of the Laws on Pay, Vacation, and Work Protection. I will note that we have tried our best to balance the rights and obligations of the working man, the employer, and the State’s effective protection. What guarantees are provided for the employee by the draft code and the main advantages compared to the existing legislation? The project clearly states that the rules of different laws have ambiguous multiple treatment, and they are only accepted for the benefit of the employee. For the first time, the rights and duties of both the employee and the employer are regulated. A worker’s right is determined by the employer’s responsibility and vice versa. The modern norm is to make a contract of employment only in writing. This will provide the employee with a guarantee of his working conditions, pay, and material security, which enhances the protection of his rights. I would like to point out that the project provides for a direct ban without the employee's consent to change the terms of the employment contract. That is, the employer will not have the right to require a person to do another job, to change his working conditions, and to determine his lower wages. Special emphasis is placed on critics of a project that does not apply to working conditions when the employer is controlled by technical means. — See article 30. The project clearly states that this control is applied to the specific characteristics of production. It's the trade and production of dragmetals. Therefore, the employer himself cannot determine it. And if he sets it up, he'll be punished for it. At the same time, some citizens complain about the draft Labour Code that the employer can easily transfer it to another employer. It's only if it's simple, and only if a person agrees to do it to provide him with a job and a salary. A comprehensive list of cases has been established when the employee can make a contract of employment. New approaches to efficient use of work have been taken into account. So the employee agrees with the employer is given the opportunity to determine on his own the time and time of completion of the job. For the least vulnerable categories of the population -- women who have children, pensioners, persons with disabilities -- they will guarantee employment in the form of work at home. With regard to pay issues, the document prohibits employers from changing their working conditions unilaterally. Increases from 20 to 30 percent of the nighttime work allowance, increased from double to triple overtime. There has been an increase in the amount of termination assistance for the short-term employee, and it has been set up depending on the person’s length of service. Up to five years is one month's average wage, up to 10, twice the size, more than 10 months' average wage. New project: increased from 24 to 28 calendar days minimum annual vacation. I want to put a stop to the question of termination of a contract. First, the project foresees a separate rule that prohibits the employer from forcing the employee to be released. Two: there is speculation in society that the project envisions the release of pregnant women. However, article 108 of the project itself has the title "Prohibition of the release of pregnant women, women who have children under 3 years of age and single mothers". And only one case can happen is the liquidation of the company. There are no other cases at all. With regard to liberalization of employment relations. Then, according to the employer’s project, it is possible for you to accept normative acts on your own. This is also a criticism. And now they don't accept such normative acts? These are orders, these are orders, these rulings are the same. Only the other terms, the terms that the state is using right now. I will also point out that in order to carry out terminology, there are standards of work, production standards, and standards of time that will allow the employer to work effectively and require the employee to pay for it. In addition, I would like to point out that the bill introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine was preceded by a huge work to discuss its position with the central executive authorities, with trade unions and employers. In particular, it was agreed upon by four of the five Ukrainian liberalization unions that are part of the joint representative body. This is the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, a professional association of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, this is the Federation of Professional Associations of Transporters and the Union of All-U.S. Trades and Unity. These represent almost 9 million workers in our nation. The situation has yet to be improved. And as the author of the project, one of the project's authors, as the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, fills in the fact that working on the draft Labour Code is going to be shared, it just starts with the involvement of all sides of the social dialogue. I would like to report that if the draft Labour Code were supported on a basis, it would be sent to the International Labour Organization for an expert opinion, and there would also be a broad discussion of the draft Labour Code with experts, the public, scientists, professionals of staff services for the purpose of adopting a document that met the conditions of time under international standards. Thank you. Please support this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a question to the reporter. Ludmila Leontovna, Ludmila Leontovna, a question to the reporter. Please sign up for 3 minutes. National deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u59	It's gonna be a royal one. Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear Ludmila Leontyevna! There's a question. Tell me, how will the adoption of this Labour Code today help to legalize employment in our country? Because we can write any beautiful document, but if we don't protect working people today, people who are forced to work illegally will certainly not work any document. What tools are in place here, and how effective are these mechanisms, and how much do they meet today's challenges to the time that is present in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor, Mrs. Natale, my colleagues on the committee. We discussed this question, of course, and it is very important. Today, this project provides that the employment agreement is exclusively in writing. That is, there will no longer be such a conditional contract for which the employer is not responsible and may not work. That is, the contract is written down: both the terms and conditions of the work, and the order of the work, and there may be some kind of order in the home. But the State needs to ensure that these employment agreements do not fail. I think that the public service that is now new and being created, which will monitor the rights of our employees, will be very helpful, including the functioning of the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u63	As you know, when it comes to adopting and voting for the Labour Code in the first reading regarding Ukraine’s implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, this code must contain a number of EU Council directives that Ukraine has committed itself to implementing. In particular, EU Council Directive 2078 of 27 November 2000 establishing a common system of equal treatment in the field of employment and professional activity. And in fact, that's why our Committee on Euro-Integration asked the author of this law, Mr. Groissman (Mr. Groissman, I ask you to pay attention to this question) and to the profiling committee today, under the transcript, to make this mandatory amendment in order to meet our standards of implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, which is prohibited from any discrimination in the field of work. In particular, violations of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I think it's the right of national deputies to decide to make such an amendment in article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u65	Complete the question to the reporter. Please invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Alexander Drozdik, to report. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, we really have very important issues in our agenda that we should vote and accept. Among them is the adoption of the first draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code. The draft Ukrainian Labour Code, which has now been publicized, provides for basic principles and mechanisms for implementing the labour rights and guarantees provided by the Constitution for Ukrainian citizens, as well as for the creation of proper working conditions and for the protection of the interests of workers and employers in market economy conditions. The draft Labour Code provides a comprehensive approach to social labour issues, codification, harmonization of labour legislation and incorporation of their standards into the project are in fact a characteristic of it. The project also aims at adapting the labour legislation of Ukraine to the European Social Charter, as well as the Declaration on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organization. Of course, the need to adopt Ukraine’s new Labour Code is due to radical changes in the entire system of social relations that are taking place in Ukraine in connection with the formation of market relations and socio-economic transformations, which are to some extent related to work at present. Thus, a large number of problems and questions of various kinds have arisen that have to be addressed by means of labour law. The preparation of a new codified act, including that of the old legislative framework, is the Labour Code, which was adopted in 1971. And regardless of the many changes made to it, it's actually out of date and it doesn't meet modern economic conditions. In view of this, the efforts of the legislators in this case are aimed at regulating relations in market economy conditions and are a positive step towards ensuring the social purpose of labour law aimed at protecting citizens in the exercise of their right to work. I would like to focus on the positive aspects of the draft Labour Code. This is because the project prohibits discrimination in the field of work, including in addition to those already existing, signs, such as age, health, disability, suspicion, or illness, family responsibilities, intent to appeal to court or appeal, and participation in strike. It is also possible to maintain a working relationship in the event of the liquidation of a legal person if a new enterprise is established on the basis of it, which continues the same business as the liquidation enterprise. It is also a positive point to establish the obligation to make a contract of employment in writing. And a list of the essential requirements of the employment agreement. There is also a direct ban on the use of threats, violence, deception, or other means of forcing a worker to quit or to stop his or her employment on his or her own initiative. Nor is it possible for a worker to be released in connection with his retirement age. The amount of guaranteed wage increases during the night is increased from 20 percent to 30 percent of the rate of duty per hour. It is also envisaged that unpaid or untimely payment by the employer of public social security contributions cannot be a reason for the employee’s refusal to provide material security and social services from public compulsory social insurance funds. It also gives professional organizations and associations the right to address directly to the courts in order to protect the rights and interests of members of the trade unions. In addition, salaries are paid to employees in accordance with the rules of the law in the first place and all other payments, including mortgage obligations, to budgets, mandatory government social insurance funds, public trust funds, cannot be made available for the payment of salaries. In fact, the project incorporates Ukrainian laws on pay, on leave, on collective agreements and agreements, on how to resolve collective labour disputes. Special attention should also be paid to the fact that the terms of the project state that international agreements governing labour relations, which are given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are part of national labour legislation. And also that the novelty of this code is also because we know that there have been many different labour disputes that have been resolved in a mixed manner by certain courts or other courts. This rule of law, which is foreseen here in the project, is essentially equivalent to those manipulations. That is, if the law or other act on the basis of which the law is enacted makes ambiguous treatment of the rights and obligations of the employee and the employer, the decision is made in the interests of both the employee and the employer. In particular, I would like to point out a few specific positive points and reject those not entirely appropriate comments about this new project, because we hear a lot of criticism about it. But if we find out, it's not exactly true. First of all, I would like to point out that according to this, there is a criticism that there is an increase in working hours, up to 12 hours a day, and 48 hours a week. This is not true, since article 130, part one, states that the normal working hours are exactly 40 hours a week, and the main mode of working time is a five - day working week with the same working hours that are the basis for calculating working hours. In addition, there is such criticism that it is said that a longer job test is being put into place at the time of admission to work, and its duration increases to 6 months. This is not true either, since according to article 41 of the project, the test period may not exceed 3 months but for workers working for one month. In some cases alone, such as the managers of legal persons, their deputies, the chief accountants, and other managers, the duration of such a trial increases to 6 months. Besides, what about night work? It has already been pointed out, I would like to point out that in no way does this law mention or violate women's rights to work at night. It is clearly noted that employees with family responsibilities are in fact entitled by their written consent only to be involved in such work. That is, a clear list of the stated prohibitions of participation in the nighttime of individual categories. I would also like to point out that this draft code also specifically states that this novel of this code is being introduced, a new type of work is being done at home. It is also envisaged that additional guarantees are actually increasing for women in employment, for minors. And these guarantees are also provided for in article 195, which states that a woman who is on leave to care for a child is entitled to work. And this work can be done either at home or part - time, and in this case it does not lose care of the child. It's very important, I think, changes in this law. I would like to point out that the actual advance in the drafting of the Labour Code has been in progress for perhaps the last 15 years. And the Committee on Social Protection, Politics, Employment and Pensions considered the bill twice at its meeting. For the first time in February of this year, for the second time in May of this year, in fact, before the introduction of a bill to Parliament. And at the stage of preparation for the project, all the social partners were involved, all the right comments were heard, and they are already included in the first reading and are supported by them. Therefore, we ask you to support him in the first reading, and we ask you to take part in preparing him for his second reading. We are ready to work with all the deputies, social partners and the committee to create a new professional Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u67	Please sign up for the co-reporter’s answers. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u69	Andrew Illenko, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. My dear colleague, I would like to ask you a question based on the fact that, unfortunately, there is today the most inefficient and most poor economy in Europe built on the mastery of oligarchic monopolies. And in fact, this Labour Code, if it was really meant to protect the interests of workers, workers, it should be based on their interests being first, not the interests of oligarchs and far from always honest employers. And we actually see that, unfortunately, there are a lot of limitations to workers in this project. This is true of both single women and women with children and women with children with disabilities. And this also applies to what is introduced, for example, video surveillance of the workplace, which is essentially some kind of total control over the worker. Please explain why these rules are in the law, in the bill, and if this is really the law that protects the interests of workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u70	The point is that your question is actually a continuation of that criticism that's groundless about the draft of the law. The point is that the rights of ordinary citizens and workers are narrowed down. This is not true, because according to the law in fact, if you look at the rights that employees and employers are entitled to, there are 22 items listed — these are rights and 10 — duties. In contrast, 9 are just rights and 7 are responsibilities. I mean, it's a lot bigger. As far as women are concerned, I've already said that we have less. It's not just us. This project preserves the existing guarantees and social rights of women, minors and other workers, and even increases. And I've already given examples of this in my speech. As far as providing information is concerned, it seems that manipulation of the right to monitor the worker is concerned. This is not true either. You would at least read the text of the law clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u71	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u72	If you read the text of the law, you would see that article 30 clearly states that an employer is able to control the performance of a worker’s work by using technical means, which is due to the characteristics of production. And it's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u73	Finish up, this is an important detail, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u74	Such actions are not allowed if they demean the dignity and dignity of employers because they violate other employees’ rights. It is also clearly stated that this is only from a warning, or warning, of a worker. That is, the worker must know that such a monitoring is being carried out (observation). And as co-author of the bill, I'm going to point out that this is happening on those productions, this is both trade and other production conditions, where it really needs to be done. Failure to do so by the employer of this law does not entail the proper responsibility provided for by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u75	Thank you for your complete comment. Please ask the last question, Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u76	Dear fellow countrymen of Ukraine! I would like to thank the developers and authors of this Labour Code and say that it is possible to vote for it in the first reading, to work with the second. But I would like to point out that we are now being amended to impose the special status of sexual minorities in working relationships. As a country with a multi - year, millennium - old Christian spiritual history, we cannot allow this to happen. The special status of sexual minorities is unacceptable. They are not discriminated against in any way today, and many countries that join the European Union have not implemented these norms. This is true of both Croatia, Romania, and Hungary, and the Baltic countries. We don't have any discrimination at all. Let's stick to that. So let us not confuse the Labour Code with those standards that we are now trying to impose through labour legislation. I will be very grateful for your response.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Well, if you don't mind, I'll give you a quick answer. Well, the thing is, in fact, in this draft law, there's no rules that you're talking about for the time being that were announced, this project is passed without this norm. And I would like to point out that in this draft of the Labour Code, all the rights of all without exception of persons, regardless of sex, age, sex, are already, in fact, foreseen. So it's just different, but it's different. Therefore, there is no need for additional changes or adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u79	Thank you for giving me your word. I believe that this bill is really important, and it is long overdue to consider it. It must be considered in a triangle: trade unions and employers are the main actors in social dialogue. What would I like to pay attention to? Ukraine faces serious economic challenges today. And from how carefully we will adopt this law, Ukraine will either be an exporter of the labour force or an importer. Today, millions of Ukrainians are in discriminatory conditions while working abroad. As the employer is able to create jobs, as much as the wage burden is reduced, how attractive the working conditions in Ukraine will be, our economic growth will depend. This is the main European challenge facing the country today: to achieve economic growth, because we have the lowest indicators in Europe. The main purpose of the Act is therefore to create conditions for economic development in Ukraine and new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u80	Well, I'd like to comment briefly, give you an answer. I fully agree with your position, because, in fact, acceptance, the draft of the Labour Code is a very important step, and, indeed, we have worked, and our committee has worked very fruitfully with the social partners in the first stage of preparing it. We'll actually accept the first reading, and we'll keep working. And it's actually consistent with the social partners. As for the other, you said, less pressure, well, it also needs to be adopted jointly by reform and tax legislation, so that we can work together on this global issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u81	Please sign up from factions. Let's take two minutes from factions and groups. Is there no objection? By 3, it says "to 3" in the Rules. Two minutes? Two minutes. Three minutes away from the groups and factions, please. Please sign up, colleagues. Please, Oles Long, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u82	Give the word of Hirschfeld to Anatoly Musiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u83	Anatoly Musiovich Hirschfeld, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u84	Thank you. I will reiterate the importance of the adoption of this law to date, and we certainly support it in order to further refine it in the second reading of certain provisions and norms. It is very important that the Federation of Employers and Trade Unions participate in this process, because they will adequately protect the rights of both people who provide jobs and trade unions. But it is very important that we do not tighten some standards, because today it is very important for us to return millions of people who are abroad and who are in discriminatory conditions. And today, Europe faces a major challenge to labour immigration. In Ukraine today, one of the lowest per capita GDP, the Government is difficult to say about growth of 1, 2, 3 per cent, and this growth is determined by new jobs. In fact, Ukraine faces the challenge of creating millions of new jobs for 3-4 years. I believe that this law will be the cornerstone of Ukraine's economic growth and the solution to this critical problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, Peter Dusty Block. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention here, please, and. You know, I'm really sorry that there are two thoughts in the session room. One for the public when they are trying to impose absolutely no European standards on the public and banging each other. And the other thing is, how much outside of the TV cameras people think in European, but they don't want to get into such slippery topics. Let's not listen to Tchaikovsky's music, let's ban Oscar Wilde, let's go if we're such hangis. Let us mention that Azarov imposed on society the idea that the European Union was first of all a different orientation. I want to say that speculation on these subjects is totally anti-European and shameful rhetoric. And more than that, who's trying to talk about what the employer's job is supposed to be interested in sexual orientation, it's not. There's one thing about the employer's job: it's how a person works. Once again, I want to stress a very important norm, and this is a commitment, not by the European Integration Committee, but by Irina Heratchenko, but by the State of Ukraine. Which she took over when she stated that the Labour Code should contain the positions of a number of EU Council Directives of 27 November 2000. And that's why we're actually talking about that we, as a European country, should simply not allow any discrimination. And it doesn't have to sound like that. It's not true that there's someone out there, it's absolute speculation. And when people try to do that, they speculate on very important and sensitive topics, including religious ones. We are a multinational state, we are a state with many religions, and we must respect every citizen of Ukraine. And this is completely out of the question of family relationships. And, you know, if you're such a manoeuvres, please don't make lovers then, please be nice in a family relationship, not go to bed with someone else. And as for work, let's write this rule in the European version. And it has to sound like this. "Any discrimination in the field of work shall be prohibited, inter alia, violation of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities, direct or no direct restriction of the rights of workers, depending on race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex identity, sexual orientation, ethnic, social and foreign origin, age, state of health, disability, suspicion or presence of HIV/AIDS, marital and property status, family obligations, residence, membership in a professional association or other association of citizens, participation in strike, appeal or intention to appeal to the court or other bodies for the protection of their rights or to provide support to other workers in the protection of their families."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u87	Please, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u88	By language or other means, not related to the nature of the work or the conditions of its execution. This is an absolute European norm that says that an employer has to judge a person solely by how he works. And not allow any discrimination against any Ukrainian citizen. And I think we need to support that. I would like to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u89	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I pay particular attention to those who, fortunately, still have a job. The proposed draft Labour Code significantly limits the labour rights, benefits and guarantees of Ukrainian citizens. Simply put, this Labour Code is in the interests of the oligarchs, in the interests of employers, but not in the interests of the employees employed. For example, the release procedure is simplified. If a person is to be warned in at least 2 months, in accordance with article 88 of the 1 - month release notice. Similarly, in line with the proposed project, article 70, an employer may force the transfer of workers or other structural units, or even to other businesses without their consent. The level of protection of the labour rights of persons with disabilities and underage citizens who work is greatly reduced. In particular, restrictions on the prohibition of the release of underage workers are lifted. Similarly, according to article 86 of the project, any employee employed may be released for fictitious reasons, if the employer so wishes. Social protection and the role of trade unions have been greatly reduced. For example, according to article 389 of the draft code, the effect of the committee on labour disputes is levelled, according to a project that is envisaged, if at least one member of the committee does not support the decision, this decision is not valid. As a result, therefore, this decision will never be made. In addition, it is voluntary to conduct a commission of labour disputes. So the employer just won't do it. Similarly, the term of the employer’s appeal to the court in matters of material harm to the employee is deleted. I will remind you, in accordance with article 233 of the current Labour Code, that the term of reference to the court is one year in the amount of material damage. Now he's taking off. In line with article 396 of the proposed project, it narrows down the number of employees who are to be granted the right of workers to obtain adequate benefits in the event of their unlawful release, as provided for in article 240-1 of the Labour Code. So is night work. At nighttime work, women with children under the age of 3 have to work and remove these restrictions. There's a decline in income. When it's reported that there's a one-month cut, not two before it's cut. So the actual draft of the Labour Code is in the interests of the oligarchs, not in the interests of hired workers. That's why the Radical Party faction won't vote for him! We are definitely against the restriction of the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u91	Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u92	Dear friends, this is about the Labour Code, which essentially regulates the balance between employers and employees. If this law is right, there is a balance. If the balance is broken, the law creates a breach. I'm just going to say that this morning, the trade unions have delegated their delegation to our faction. Who informed us that the Labour Code was developed under Yanukovich’s administration, developed by employers without the involvement of the trade unions. And today this codex is presented as a victory. I can tell you that in every civilized country there is a principle of tripartism, where employers, trade unions, and government officials have to compromise on every issue related to employment. If workers, trade unions, were not involved in the development of this Labour Code, this codex means that it is one - sided. I quote only one paragraph of the appeal of trade unions to the Supreme Council. "The adoption of the Labour Code as proposed today will have tragic consequences for the people of employment. Employers don't have a lot of fun with hired workers right now. And once this code has been adopted, the proposed text will have no obstacles to the oppression of workers' rights." That's the idea of trade unions. And what's more, I have in my hands right now a comparison of the social policy minister Rosenk's quotations before he became minister, according to this code, and after he became minister. I mean, it's a radical difference. When he was not Minister Paul Rosenko, he said there was a "substantial limitation on the employer's responsibility to the employee and the extension of their powers." Today he says that this code will be a breakthrough document, which will update the modern legal framework. He also mentioned that this Labour Code violates the balance between employers and employees. At the same time, he said that there was a review of the fundamental rights of workers themselves for the benefit of employers. I want to tell you that there is a lot of unemployment in this code. But at the same time, we are required by this bill as a first step towards a visa-free regime. That's why our faction made the decision that we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u93	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u94	That we are voting in the first reading, claiming that we are fully qualified. But in the second reading, we are obliged to invite trade unions and only to make all the changes and additions with them, otherwise it will be propaganda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u95	People's Deputy Masorin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Michael Humil.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u97	Mikhail Humil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u98	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to thank the copyright team for this tetanus work that has been poured out in such a systematic document that, for the first time in Ukraine's independence, attempts to systematize and codify all laws governing labour relations. I want to remind you that Ukraine is the only country that is a member of the former Soviet Union that lives by the laws that govern the working relationship of a non-existent country, namely the Labour Code of 1972. Now, admitting that by taking part in the various measures that apply to economic forums and so on, the investor doesn't understand or this investor that works with us, we hope to attract more investment. Why should he live and maintain his employment relationship on the basis of the laws of a nonexistent country? Many appeals go to the point that trade unions do not agree, do not support, or do not fully support or participate in the discussion of the draft law. I mean, that's not true. Because four out of five trade unions in Ukraine, namely, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, the National Academy of Sciences, the Federation of Professional Transporters, the Union of All-Ukrainian Trade Unions and Unity Unions, have given their positive conclusions and participated in the preparation of this comprehensive bill. Dear colleagues, there were also comments about the setting up of cameras and video surveillance of hired workers in their workplaces. I would like to point out that the law clearly states, with the knowledge alone and with the consent of the hired worker. Tell me, isn't there a video camera in the supermarket now? There's no video cameras in the banks now? What's more, for the purpose of crime prevention, even cameras are installed in public resting places, in the streets, in the areas of big cities, is what else? I want to urge everyone, regardless of party membership, fractional membership, to support the bill in the first reading, as suggested by the author's team. To allow this bill to be sent to the International Labour Organization for expertise and to be included together in its processing and consideration for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! There have been a lot of criticism about the bill in this room, and with a number of positions, we can actually agree. But what I would like to pay attention to is, unfortunately, in this session hall of the eighth vocation, not so much, in fact, you can count on the fingers of one hand those bills that are fundamentally, fundamentally able to change the rules of social relations in the country. Undoubtedly, the labor code refers to one of these types. However, given the immense social significance of the bill, it cannot be approached in an average way. What is most important in the preparation of such laws? This is the achievement of a balance between social interests, balance between workers and employers. I do not fully agree with the thesis here that we have, in employers, the most evil. The question of who creates jobs and creates a budget. At the same time, we clearly need to create an effective mechanism for protecting the interests of workers so that they feel protected from adopting employers who do not want to be counted by law or morale. Plus what I'm trying to say. Article 116 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine allows for the continuation of the amendment period. I urge you to continue to make amendments in accordance with article 116. Allowing the Supreme Council to work qualitatively not for a month, not two, at least three months, with a view to reaching a balanced bill. Create a working group where all the national MPs who are ready to work on this bill for second reading will enter to get a quality balanced project. Involve the public, engage the expert environment. And as a result, really get that Labour Code that will really ensure that Ukraine moves forward and moves forward into the European environment. Because continuing to live and work with the Soviet Socialist Labour Code is definitely unacceptable. This makes the workers lose, the employers lose, the economy loses, and the image of Ukraine loses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. The opposition bloc, of course, to simplify the visa regime in our country. But we need to understand that besides a visa, a person needs to know what he's going for and where to get the money for it. To that end, it is very important for him to have a job and pay in time. With regard to the Labour Code, yes, of course we are out of work today, and it does not meet the challenges of time. And we need to adopt a new document, but at the same time we need to understand that the document will not simply be a title, but that it will also bear the most serious content. What do we see in this document that we are invited to discuss? Well, first of all, this is where my colleagues have been talking about these elements of labor slavery when a person is able to transfer from one employer to another employer. The second is, of course, a violation of the rights of citizens, a direct violation of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, after this adoption, we will gather you and we will all go to the Constitutional Court to challenge this document because we will violate the Constitution if we vote for it. And the third, too, is a violation of trade union rights. Today, the question of tripartism was raised from this rostrum, that the participation of all parties to social dialogue was necessary. Unfortunately, there is no such procedure. Well, I also want to show you the comment of the scientific and expert management who wrote on page 15 that we need to fix here. Dear colleagues, we are today, and the whole country is in a very difficult position. First of all, we need to answer these questions today: how do we keep existing jobs, how to protect people, and how to keep them from their jobs? Unemployment is growing every day in the country. The Code does not answer these questions. The second task is to legalize employment. Today, millions of people are unfortunately forced to work illegally, work without rights. Unfortunately, this code also does not give us such opportunities. The third question is that the country has a catastrophic wage debt. First of all, we need to decide how we deal with debts, how to prevent the growth and collapse of wages and how to protect human rights and human rights. Unfortunately, it's not here. The Opposition Unit therefore advocates the modernization of labour legislation, but unfortunately we do not support this text of the Labour Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u103	Colleagues, proposal: 10 minutes for deputies, 2 minutes, please. Please sign up for two minutes from the National Deputies. Gregory Timish, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u104	Please give Sergey Kaplin my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u105	Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u106	Well, first of all, I'd like to hand over to you the position of independent trade unions, trade unions of business organizations, the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine. The position is this: this is not the Labour Code, this is the Declaration on the Return of Slavery in Ukraine. We've been waiting! A few hundred years later, slavery returns to the country. Once again, ladies and tenants who receive neither pensions nor salaries whose rights will be violated are available. And this is really going to be a violation of the Constitution. And the "Small People" Party and the trade unions will collect the necessary signatures to sue the Labour Code in the Constitutional Court. The other one. This is not the first attempt to undermine the rights of ordinary citizens -- people who are directly engaged in government work. Let me remind you that a few months ago, a meeting was held, a secret meeting of the government that discussed the issue, in fact, the destruction of the trade unions that are, and the subsequent privatization of them, and the creation of controlled trade unions. I went to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service. Regrettably, so far the necessary guidance has not been initiated so that the ministers involved in this disgraceful political instrument will be punished. Next. What I'm saying is that this code has really not been discussed by the unions, the unions that you call them are far from exhaustive, but more specifically, it's one hundred of those unions that should be involved in the discussion. I'll remind the People's Front representatives that there are about 100 trade unions in Ukraine and so many independent trade unions. The experts made a firm statement. And the last. I take advantage of the opportunity of the Minister of Justice here. We're gonna get you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Leo Podlisecki, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Tani Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u109	Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, there have been a lot of comments about this code, but it still combines a lot of legislation into a single piece of legislation that is codified. It is said that our codex for today’s labor laws is archaic. It was in this code that they tried to settle labour relations, for example, with the natural person of entrepreneurs, with the relationship of a foreign employer in Ukraine, with the exclusion of work, with the possibility of using children’s work, such as filming. So all of these relationships are really fixed in real terms and are brought into line with the social relationships that have taken place today. Of course, when we work on this code, we all agree that it needs to be worked out in a fundamental way, that we also have to take into account the Ukrainian values that have traditionally emerged in our country, we have to think about women's rights, the rights of single mothers, the rights of minors involved in the work. So the consistent position of the Self-Help faction, Vladimir Borisovich, I stress that we need at least three months to finalize the Labour Code, and the Self-Help faction is ready to support this document in the first reading, provided that, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the deadline for amendments is extended for at least three months, so that we can involve all the expert environments, professional associations to work on amendments. Only in this case are we ready to support the foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u111	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u112	Victor Halasyuk, "Radical Party." Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The "Radical Party" faction consistently advocates the interests of employers, entrepreneurs, industrialists, but conscientious employers, entrepreneurs and industrialists. And in no way will we allow the interests of the people of work to be ignored. Therefore, this Labour Code, which substantially shifts balance and which is not the result of the relevant social dialogue, cannot be maintained today. He needs to be discussed closely with the tradesmen once again. At the same time, I would like to highlight an even more important issue. For anyone to use this Labour Code, we today have to ask the number one question in the country -- job creation. This issue must be number one for the President, for the Prime Minister, for the Head of the Supreme Council, for every minister and deputy. This is Ukraine's only path to Europe – investment and job creation. How many times have we approached the Prime Minister, how many times have I been on the National Reform Council, addressing the President? Let's put in place real laws that will allow today to change the situation from raw exports to produce ready-made products, to involve European investments here, as we started these little bits in some ways. Why are we not discussing the introduction of temporary employment programs today, including for ATO participants who are returning home? I'm told in Lviv, I'm back from ATO, I'm offered 800 dollars. How can I feed my family? Where to go except to immigrate from the country. Is that what we want for our country? The Radical Party faction therefore insists that jobs are priority number one, and a strict social dialogue between employers, entrepreneurs, employees, professions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u113	Sergey Droeuk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Drozdik Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u115	Alexander Drozdick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u116	I would like to point out that the criticism that has now sounded from individual national MPs is actually a manipulation of some, perhaps another draft of the Labour Code. Since this bill of the Labour Code does not contain any such standards and does not exist. That's not true. And if national MPs, although sometimes they would have taken and read the texts of the bill, maybe they wouldn't have sounded the nonsense that they're talking about right now. And with regard to trade unions, I would like to say that all the social partners were actively involved in the discussion of this project, the unions are fully supportive of both the government and employers of the bill in the first reading. And with regard to what is now being said by a representative of the common people who are so-called that they didn't seem to be involved and he, as a member of the trade unions, has the right to sound their position here, I would like to point out that no unions have authorized a representative of ordinary people to sound here as a member of the trade unions. Because there is no decision of the trade unions to represent him in Parliament by trade unions. So you don't have to manipulate texts here. If there is such a decision, show the text of this decision of the trade unions that you have been authorized here to represent their interests in Parliament. Yeah. Please. From. And as to what we are, once again, I am actively inviting all the national MPs, all the social partners to join us in processing and discussing it for second reading, and preparing appropriate rights. We will be actively involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u117	Please, Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u118	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, the Labour Code is one of the most important normative instruments that distinguishes the slave system from the modern civilized employment. Clearly, he must become a consensus between an employee and an employer. When the issues of quality work are settled, and the right conditions of work, and the right pay of work, fair pay of work, but nevertheless, it is also created for the employer to develop jobs, to introduce new production technologies. Unfortunately, this Labour Code, I think if you talk to citizens, few have heard of it being developed. Even in the hall, the majority of the deputies found only today that he was in order of the day. And such a bill requires a broader discussion not only in the sessional room and in the faction, but also in society. So, obviously, without discussion with the trade unions, the labour groups, without perhaps even parliamentary hearings on this issue, this bill cannot be the subject of our consideration. So the Radical Party faction wanted this bill to become a document of consensus itself, of transition from a socialist form of production and of a socialist form of involvement in a civilized work. And so it became a consensus for the employee to get a decent job, a decent salary, but the employer also got the right conditions for developing its own production and attracting quality labour. So I think that this bill has to be very much worked out with the involvement of the public at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite all national deputies to your seats. We are finalizing the discussion of the Labour Code. Please, Borislav Bereza, one minute. Dear colleagues, take your seats. It'll be a closing statement. We're about to give the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u120	Deputies! Laconity is the sister of talent, so I'm going to be very brief. First of all, there's a lot of work to be done in this bill. But, you see, our KZOT has been working since 1971. It's a Soviet KZOT, and it had to be changed. When representatives of the Opposition Block said that they were in any position to defend their interests, I wonder why they hadn't done anything for four years. Why did they not do anything and say nothing? So now we need to vote on this bill, but we need to work very, very hard on the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Please, Minister of Social Policy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the subject of discussion, especially as my last name has been heard. With regard to this bill, I would like to say a few words and respond to the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. I'm talking to the Radical faction: you're consistently talking about the need for investment, the need to raise funds for the development of Ukraine's economy. But it needs to be made clear that investors go and are interested in the Ukrainian economy not only because of business conditions, not only because of tax cuts, but also because of competitive conditions for the functioning of the labour market in Ukraine, compared to other countries. So, it's very important that when they come to us and we show the 1972 Labour Code, they say, "Boys, what country do you live in?Oh, my God! We have to change these conditions." I want to talk about what we talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u123	Please finish, Minister, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u124	That's a very important question. We are the last, colleagues, among the post-Radians countries to change this system: we, with this reform, are 14 years late. That's why I'm asking and calling you. Julia Volodymyrna, last of all, to you. I always take criticism. I want to be the only one to make sure we're in critical condition. When I criticized the Labour Code of Janukovic, all the quotations were in 2010. At the time, Januković’s Labour Code increased the working week to 48 hours, and then trade unions were thrown out of the negotiating process altogether. Indeed, the workers were slaves who restricted their labour rights, and that is all there is in this draft of the Labour Code today. So I'm asking you very much, it's thoroughly cleaned. I propose that everyone today really approve it in the first reading and along with the unions, with the committee-based employers, along with the experts, bring it to a state of the art so that it, on the one hand, promotes investment, on the other hand, protects the labour rights of citizens. I fully agree that the labour rights of citizens must be duly upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Justice Minister Paul Petrenko one minute. We're getting ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, in fact, is the subject of a discussion about whether Ukraine will continue to live on the Soviet Code of the 1970s, which is ineffective, in terms of protection for both the employee and the employer. Does Ukraine live up to its commitment under a visa-free regime? In fact, this commitment is not a requirement of our European partners, it is the recommendations of our European partners to change the basic legislation to meet European standards. And I want to support the speech of my colleague, the Minister of Social Policy, and the speech of my colleagues from the Committee on European Integration. The labor code should protect every person, each individual should be valued according to his or her professional qualities, not by any other category that the employer carries out. This code will provide more protection for a simple citizen who engages in an employment relationship with a suitable employer. Of course, it needs to be worked out, it needs to be created by a working group that will make it as secure as possible before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few words, if you please, absolutely. See, from this rostrum came what was warned in a month, not in two. Did you hear that, everyone? I'm reading to you in article 88 on the following: "Acquittal in connection with a reduction, the employer is obliged to notify the employee in writing not later than two months later." This is article 88. It's just that I have to read the laws and then comment on them. Next, dear friends. Article 68, it was noted that there would now be slavery in Ukraine. We also heard that the return of slavery. In fact, the employer is entitled to a temporary transfer of workers if it is easy. In objection, I can say that article 68: The employer has the right to temporarily transfer the employee to another job, including a vacant job or a vacant position, only by his consent. What kind of slavery could there be? Slaves are not asked anything, but here is written consent. That's the second question. And the third question, dear colleagues, here it was written that allowed the release of single mothers, was also mentioned. 108 article of the project, listen: It is forbidden to release pregnant women and women who have children under 3 years of age or a disabled child at the initiative of the employer, except in cases of business liquidation (if it is eliminated, there are no other issues). The following is a direct rule: It is forbidden to release single mothers who have children under the age of 15, except for the removal of a legal person. And another, 291 articles when there are overly charming, nocturnal, and so on. 291 articles, all that is written, black and white, respected colleagues. The project includes restrictions on women’s participation in night jobs, overtime work, weekends, public and religious holidays, and such women are involved only with their written consent. There can be no other involvement, and this protects rights and fully regulates the relationship between the employer and the worker. However, there have been many valid questions here related not to two weeks to make amendments but to three weeks to make amendments. It's a very good suggestion to include the widest possible opportunity to prepare, the second reading of this project and experts, and the public, and the trades. Although I may point out that this project is based on agreement with four of the five trade unions that are writtenly confirmed on the committee itself. But this tells us that we have a dialogue, and this dialogue should be effective, including for the preparation of second reading. So in such matters, I would ask you now to consolidate what is extremely important and to participate in the vote. There were questions and suggestions by Irina Heratchenko to include such changes in the first reading. So, Your Honor, I'm going to put this motion on the table right now, and according to the Supreme Council Hall, the members of the Supreme Council need to be determined. Please, Irina Heratschenko, a minute and. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, this is not Irina Heratchenko's offer, but I would like to stress this once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u129	That sounds like Irina Heratschenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u130	This is a proposal from the Committee on European Integration, yes, it is, and this is a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Justice. I ask the Minister of Justice to raise his hand that it is true. Raise the hand of Deputy Foreign Minister Olena Mirror, just as it represents the position of the Foreign Ministry. This is the common position of the people responsible for European integration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. Then we'll do it this way. Re-proclaim the amendment and. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. So it's a signal based on Irina Heratschenko's offer, yes. The committee and ministry announced by Irina Heratchenko [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let's do it. On the basis, and then on this offer? Then with an offer. Okay. Let's put it this way, based on the committee's version. Then I'll put in for this amendment. Do you have a deal? Please, three weeks, this will all be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u132	Sure. And we agreed on that. But that's what we're going to vote after, because that's the procedure. We define with you what's on. We're doing ad hoc, and we're taking three weeks to fix it. We create a high-quality professional working group, and we work with women, workers, trade unions, experts, and we work on this second reading. Do you have a deal? So, based on that, colleagues, we're voting. On the basis of this, please vote. We're voting on the ground. Based on the committee's version. Vote. I'll put it to a vote with an amendment later. It's an amendment. There's no basis for it now. We're voting on the basis, colleagues, please. Please support the draft Labour Code based on all the positions that I have just heard. Vote! Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:19:05]] For 258. The draft Law was adopted as a basis. Now let's move on, colleagues. A committee proposal announced by Irina Heratchenko, which coincides with the proposal of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please vote. For the offer. Aah! Can you read it again? Let's read it again, one more minute. To take this amendment into account for the preparation of the second reading, this proposal will now be made. Please, Irina Heratschenko. Read it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, it is as follows: listen to the absolutely European option: it prohibits any discrimination in the field of work, such as violations of the principle of equality of rights and opportunities, direct or indirect restrictions on the rights of workers depending on race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnic, social, foreign origin, age, state of health, disability, suspicion or availability of HIV/AIDS, family and property status, family responsibilities, place of residence, membership in the professional community and other association of citizens, participation in strike, appeal or intent to the court or other bodies for the protection of their rights or to provide support to other workers in the protection of their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u134	Colleagues, this proposal that I've heard from Irina Heratchenko twice, I'm formulating the next proposal, my friends, to consider taking this amendment into account for the second reading. Listen, colleagues, I think it's perfectly normal. Consider taking this amendment into account for the second reading, and we'll still be on the committee, my friends, there's no objection here. Please support this: consider the possibility of preparing to take this amendment into account when preparing for the second reading. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Consider the possibility of accounting, my friends. All the same final second reading vote, we'll talk about it. Please vote, friends: consider the possibility of accounting. Vote! [[12:21:50]] For a-117. The amendment was not supported. Dear colleagues, I'm going to announce a recess in accordance with the Rules. Ah, colleagues, minutes, minutes, minutes, minutes, minutes, friends! Three weeks of preparation for second reading. One moment, please return to your seat! Three weeks for repairs, friends, not two weeks, but three. Please support this, it's more of a support. Friends! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on a proposal to extend the amendment to this code from two weeks to three weeks. Please allow each of you to make adjustments. I'm asking you to support this for three weeks ad hoc. Let's vote, colleagues. Three weeks, please support, three weeks ad hoc. Let's vote, let's support. [[12:22:58]] For 257 Thank you, my friends, ad hoc accepted, and will be created by my command as a working group. Thank you. 30 minutes off.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're continuing our work. We still have a lot of work to do today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day, we move on to the next question. Draft Law on External Labour Migration, No. 2330a And I invite the rapporteur -- the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Denise's Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please. It's the second reading, society! No abbreviated procedure available. We're moving on to the second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! For the purpose of preparing the bill for second reading, the committee established a working group with the participation of representatives of the Committee on Social Policy, followed by the integration, ministries of social policy, foreign affairs, justice, finance, migration and fiscal services, the Pension Fund, employment services, trade unions, employers, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the National Bank, scientists, the World Congress of Ukrainians in Ukraine, as well as the scientific and legal authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This working group held four meetings, which resulted in the work being done and presented to you for consideration of the table that was given to you all the day before yesterday. In general, 115 proposals were made by 14 national deputies. 57 offers are included, others are rejected on various grounds. On October 28, a committee meeting was held with representatives of ministries and departments, whose employees worked on the project in the working group, as well as representatives of the World Congress of Ukrainians in Ukraine. In general, the bill approved by the committee for second reading is supplemented by the following rules. The text of the bill has been elaborated in more detail. It has been established that a migrant worker is a person who carries out a paid activity, not a job, which has been extended to people who will be subject to the law. There are categories of migrant workers who have extended the law, who work on the basis of employment contracts, contracts, self-sustain themselves, provide payment services, perform jobs, perform other payments of war activities that are not prohibited by legislation in the State of residence. It has been established that the Ministry of Social Policy, in addition to defining the main body for the implementation of foreign labour migration policy, is responsible for the reintegration of labour migrants, that is, returning to our country. It is the duty of the State to ensure the realization of the labour migrant rights provided for by this law, not just the equality of labour rights. More clearly defined labour migrants' rights, their social protection, the state's guarantees of consular promotion and complemented, the state promotes. on education issues. So I ask you very much to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, extremely important bills. I'm asking for attention and silence. Please respect the speaker, the voters who delegated our hall, and invite you to a professional discussion. So this is one of those bills that concerns the visa liberalisation plan. A number of laws were introduced into the bill, some of which were taken into account by the committee. Part was rejected. And now, attention, I'm going to follow those amendments that were rejected, and if the authors insist, I'm going to give them my word. So, amendment number 11, People's Deputy Gopko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Amendment 14, National Deputy Gopko. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 15th, Gopko. 16th, Gopko. Don't insist. 17th, Gopko. Don't insist. 18th, Gopko. Don't insist. Quick, before she gets here. 19th, Gopko. Don't insist. 20th, Gopko. Don't insist. 21st, Shuhevich. He insists. Please turn on the microphone to national deputy Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u139	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I would like to express my thanks first to those organizations of labour migrants who have also joined in processing this, because I have made these amendments in close cooperation with them. That's the point. This is where the text will be read. External labour migration is the movement of Ukrainian citizens, linked. It's a 6 amendment, we'll go back to it, it's edited, but it's not counted. Mr. Yuri asks her to vote. External labour migration is the movement of Ukrainian citizens to cross the state border in order to carry out paid activities in the state of residence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u140	Ms. Ludmila, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment because the proposed terminology was rejected because the concepts of labour migration and external labour migration are more widespread and absorbing them. And that's why the proposed term "employer", "employee", "work conditions", "work protection" is not subject to regulation of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u142	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? Yeah, you insist, right? Do you hear me, do you insist? I put to the vote amendment number 6 of the People's Deputy Suhevich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee has turned down, we have a vote. [[13:14:11]] For-125 125 in favour, no decision taken. We're back to the 6th Amendment and we're moving on: 22nd National Deputy Krulko, does he insist? No, it's not. 24th People's Deputy Shuhevich. Twenty-four, do you insist? Please, by the way of raising your hand, I'll give you my word, turn on the microphone, Mr. Yuri Shuhevich's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u143	The amendment refers to the fact that there are labour migrants involved and that there are no members of their families involved. This is the 23rd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u144	I'm sorry, 23 amendments, National Deputy Drozdik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u145	32 amendments are not and are not relevant to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u147	But there is a question, one can emphasize. One amendment was made to the bill, and the committee considered it. But we need to complement this article 2 "The scope of the law" with paragraph 5 in order to distribute these rights, which are provided for by this law, not only for labour migrants, but for their families. So I'm asking you to put it to the vote and support the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u148	Please, we are now talking about 23 amendments, which are the amendment of Drozdik and Amazanova. I am very curious and important under the Rules, do the authors of this amendment require a vote? Please, one minute, Krulko. Although this is not provided for by the Rules, please have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u149	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellows to be offered. Colleagues Dorazdik and Amazanov made 23 amendments to describe persons who are subject to the Labour Migrants Act. But in view of the fact that this list, which is defined, is not exclusive, I fully support my colleague, Suhevich, to add the fifth item here after the 4th of the 5th paragraph: "members of the families of migrant workers." And in that formulation, accept this amendment. We agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the vote is about to take place. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. I ask Mrs. Ludmila for a transcript to announce, in fact, what the House proposes to vote on. And the people's deputies go into the hall and enter the premises. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u151	I'd like to emphasize that. Article 2 "The Scope of the Law." This law extends to migrant workers who, first of all, work on the basis of a contract of employment, a contract, self-sustaining work, providing payment services, doing work, doing other paying activities that are not prohibited by the law of the State of residence. The action of this. But the fifth is for the family of migrant workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u152	The Society, now the chairman of the committee, has resounded a new version of the amendment that consolidates the entire hall and is supported by all factions. All we care about is that we have enough votes to vote on right now. So once again, I'm going to ask the MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall, and we're going to have an important positive vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 23 in an editorial that the chairman of the committee, Ludmila Denisov, has just delivered from the rostrum. I ask you to vote in favour of this amendment, and I ask you to take part in this vote. Dear colleagues, we vote, we support. Please support me. Vote! [[13:18:41]] For 246 The potential in the hall is strong, thank you for your support. 246, decision taken. Let's move on. Amendment 25, People's MP Melnik. I'm sorry, 24 amendments. 24 fixes, Shuhevich. Turn on the Suhevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u153	I insist! Here's the thing: "It doesn't spread (under this law), it doesn't extend to labour migrants who seek and find shelter in this state." That's what I'm asking you to do. Because many immigrants come, pass documents, refuse documents, and appeal. During that time, they live, and it turns out that they are deprived of their rights, recognized, and worked in the meantime. You know, people are good, but they've lived that way for years. We, you know, deprive them of all rights. Work. Think about it. I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u154	Thank you. Ms. Ludmila, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u155	This amendment was not supported by the committee, since the proposal for non-proliferation of the law against asylum seekers in the State of residence cannot be excluded because the government’s editorial system is wider. In addition, the purpose of this category of Ukrainian citizens in another country is to obtain shelter rather than pay. Thus, Ukrainian citizens seeking refuge in another state have a different purpose and other intentions of being abroad than those leaving for the purpose of doing paid work. So we didn't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u156	Thank you. The committee head explained why the amendment was not supported. But I still put to the vote amendment number 24 of National MP Yuri Suhevich. And whoever supports this amendment, I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[13:20:50]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 25th National MP Melnik. Don't insist. 28th, Melnik. Don't insist. 29th Deputy of the People's Party, Shuhevich. Don't insist. 30th People's Deputies of Doves. Don't insist. 31st, Melnik. Don't insist. 36th, Krulko. Ivan, my friend, the 36th Amendment. Don't insist. 39th, Shuhevich. Please, there's someone between us, so let him go away, because I can't see you. Don't insist. 43rd, Shuhevich. Don't insist. 44th, Gopko, MP. Don't insist. 46th, Krulko. Don't insist. 49th, Gopko. He insists. Please turn on Mrs. Honey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u157	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I don't understand the reasons for the rejection. Why can the central body in the field of culture take steps to promote Ukrainian culture and the acquisition of people, and the authorities in the field of education, public language policy, cannot? I propose to support this amendment and to set out this norm as follows: "The central authorities of the executive branch, which implement public policy in the fields of education, culture and art, state language policy, ensure that measures are taken to promote abroad the Ukrainian language and cultural acquisitions of the Ukrainian people." Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u158	The authors suggest that the Ministry of Education be obliged to promote educational services abroad. The proposal is rejected because part of article 9 of the bill provides that the central authority of executive power, which ensures the formation and state policy of education and science, is engaged in international cooperation on education issues and ensures the implementation of constitutional law and the general average education of migrant workers and their families.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u159	Do you insist on voting? He insists. So the committee explained its position, but nevertheless the author insists, and I'm voting on Amendment 49, People's MP Hopko. And I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[13:23:30]] For 165 The decision is not taken. Next 50th National Deputy Suhevich. Don't insist. 52nd People's Deputy Shuhevich. He insists. Please, 52 revisions. Turn on the Suhevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u160	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask 52nd and 54th to unite, so allow me to speak on those two immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, an amendment requires that contracts be made, in accordance with which labour migration is concerned, to announce their projects for consultation, especially for those who work there. We had this attempt in our ninth year that when our government wanted to conclude an agreement with Italy that would, you know, deprive the people who worked there, the pension rights that the Italian law gave. And we were told that only after the treaty was ratified. We found out differently, we reported migration, we were able to stop this treaty, which was very devoid of practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u163	Please give Mr. Yuri the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u164	Depriving people of their rights under those Italian pensions, depriving them of their rights. So I ask you to be careful about this and to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u166	Can I read this amendment? The amendment relates to article 13, ensuring the right of migrant workers and their families to information and agree on draft international agreements on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and their families. We rejected this amendment because the order of agreement, signature and ratification of international treaties and treaties is regulated by Ukraine's special Law on International Contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u167	Thank you. The committee explained its position. Mr. Jury, according to the Rules, I have to separate each amendment from both the 52nd and the 54th. I am the first to put to the vote amendment 52, National Deputy Suhevich. Whoever supports this amendment, I ask you to vote. Please. [[13:26:11]] For-152. The decision is not taken. 53rd, Ivan Krulko. Don't insist. 54th, we just talked about it. Now I'm just going to put it to a vote. So these are again the tics of the Shuhevich amendment that we just discussed. Whoever supports Amendment 54 of the People's Deputy Shuhevich, please vote. [[13:26:44]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Next. 59th, Gopko. Don't insist. 61st, Shuhevich. Don't insist. 62nd, Krulko. Ivan, work. 62nd, Krulko. Don't insist. 64th, Gopko. Don't insist. 65th, Shuhevich. Don't insist. 66th, Krulko. Don't insist. 67th, Gopko. Don't insist. 68th, Shuhevich. Don't insist. 71st, Gopko. Don't insist. 73rd, Krulko. Don't insist. 75th, Gopko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! For some reasons, the committee rejected the amendment that the transport of the body or the powder of a dead Ukrainian citizen is being done for the promotion of Ukrainian diplomatic or consular institutions. I emphasize that formulation is quite flexible, and that doesn't mean that our diplomats have to ride coffins. But this means that if there is, say, a consular representation of Ukraine in a foreign state, it should contribute to the extent possible, the transport to Ukraine of the body or the dust of the deceased, if our citizens have addressed the consulate on this matter. So I would like to support it in an editorial form like this: "for the promotion of Ukrainian diplomatic or consular institutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u169	Thank you. The proposals are rejected because the draft of a bill adopted in the first reading is broader than the options proposed by the national deputies, including Mrs. Hopko. The government's editorial predicts that the transport of Ukraine. In Ukraine, the body, the dust of the dead is carried out according to the law. And also, if we take into account, for example, what we're going to do right now, we need to change a few laws. So I think if we want to do this, it's a separate document that can be made immediately. immediately introduce all legislative acts regulating consular and diplomatic representations in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u170	So we heard the committee's opinion. I'll take the vote on the amendment. Mr. John, please speak on your amendments. I'm voting on Anna Hopko's amendment. Anyone supporting Amendment 75, please vote. Please vote. [[13:29:39]] For-173 The decision is not taken. 76th, Shuhevich. He insists. Please turn on the Suhevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u171	Because. Since the previous Mrs. Hopko has not been voted on, please vote on Krulk's next amendment. They're all practically identical. It's purely editorial. I beg you then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u172	May I read this amendment to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u173	Of course, Mrs. Ludmila, this is your duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u174	"In the event of the death of a migrant worker during his employment in the territory of the State of residence, the transfer to Ukraine of the body, the powder of the deceased shall be carried out in accordance with the law by diplomatic or consular representatives of Ukraine." The answer is the same. The author proposes legislation in force. And if we're going to introduce that rule, we have to make changes to all the last bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've heard the committee's argument, and I'm putting it to a vote. I'm voting on amendment 76 of the people's deputy Suhevich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:31:10]] For 185 The decision is not taken. 77th, Krulko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u176	Ivan Krulko, "Fatherland" faction, interfractional association of "World Ukraine". Since the previous two amendments did not receive 226 votes, I would like to listen very carefully to what is being said. This amendment is similar. The point is that if one of our fellow countrymen dies abroad and is a migrant worker, his body or dust is transferred to the territory of Ukraine, according to legislation we accept, but for promotion or through diplomatic or consular institutions. This is not an imperative norm. But it's very important to point out that diplomatic institutions will be involved in helping to get the body of a dead Ukrainian to be transferred to Ukraine and buried here. I very much ask that the national MPs listen, support this. This is not an imperative norm. But it is very important to ensure the rights of our migrant workers as well as those families who expect to do all the necessary work here. Please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u177	Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u178	I've already commented. This edition was agreed at a committee meeting for representation and the Ukrainian Diaspora. I mean, if he determines the hall. You just have to take the rest of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put it to a vote. I don't have to vote. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 77 People's Deputy Krulk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:33:08]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Amendment 79. Mrs. Ludmila! Mrs. Ludmila Denisova! Dear colleagues, not all have been able to vote for John Krulk's amendment, I hear voices from the hall. And that's why I'm re-voting the amendment. Yes, Mrs. Ludmila, have her comment again. And now we're going to put her to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u180	"In the event of the death of a migrant worker who was employed in the territory of the State of residence, the transport to Ukraine of the deceased's body (dust) is carried out in accordance with legislation through diplomatic or consular representations of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u181	Name the correct number. Number. What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u182	Number 77.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u183	77. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting again on the amendment of 77 People's Deputy Krulka. The committee in general does not object. Right? He doesn't mind. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:34:51]] For 264 Welcome to the amendment. 264 for. Correction accepted. Let's move on. 79th, Krulko. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u184	Ivan Krulko, Fatherland faction, World Ukraine IFO. I would like to say that this draft for the second reading was very carefully worked out by the World Congress of Ukrainians. We've found compromises by all law. So I'm taking down all the other amendments that are rejected by the committee, and I'm proposing a law to be adopted in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to confirm that this law, like almost all laws, after the liberalisation of the visa-free regime, has gone a very difficult way, and the committee has done a huge work in harmony with the Ukrainian World Congress, with international experts, Ukrainians. What we have on our hands is the result of a very hard work on the committees, with public structures and many deputies, not members of the committee. And that's why I'm confirming it. Thank you, Mr. Krulke, for making the amendments. We have limited time today, many laws ahead of us, and so let us move on, and, as amended, let us work quickly and in a concise manner. '80s, People's Deputy Sold. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, this bill admits for the first time, this bill admits for the first time that Ukraine, as a state, recognizes the presence of migrant workers abroad, recognizes their rights and guarantees them, and their families the framework of their obligations that had to be made for many years. I want to thank the committee and the ministry, and I very much ask everyone to support this bill in the second reading and in general, it really needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u187	Thank you. We will not vote on your amendment. 82nd, Gopko. Don't insist. 83rd, Krulko. Don't insist. 84th, Sold. Don't insist. Very good. 90th, Melnik. Don't insist. 91st, Gopko. Don't insist. 96th, Gopko. Don't insist. 97th, Krulko. Don't insist. 98th, Shuhevich. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u188	I want to thank the Hall for supporting Krulk's amendment and thanking the foreign Ukrainians who have worked hard on this bill. Thank you. I'm taking down all my changes. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u189	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. 99th, Branzovich. Don't insist. 101st, Gopka, don't insist. 102th Krulko, don't insist. 106th, Melnik, don't insist. 108th, Melnik, doesn't insist. 112th, Hopko, insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u190	Colleagues, I'm taking down all the following amendments, but please go back to number five.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u191	You forgot to thank everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u192	I thank you all and take down all the following amendments, there's still quite a lot of them. And I want to hear what amendment number 5 is. The wording proposed by the Committee on Labour Migration made it very clear that it was the movement of Ukrainian citizens to cross the state border in order to carry out paid activities in a state of residence that was not prohibited by legislation. We suggest that we remove this "not prohibited by legislation". Clearly, all apriors must adhere to the laws of the State of residence. But let us wisely formulate the rules of the law without harming our own state and citizens. It is also the position of the World Congress of Ukrainians to simply identify labour migration as a paid activity in the country of residence. And a dot. Because all of our citizens have to follow legislation anyway. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u193	Only with your permission will we arrive, complete these amendments, and then return to the 5th you insist on. Do you have a deal? So 113-a, Hopko. Don't insist. 114th, Gopko. Don't insist. 115th, Gopko. Don't insist. We have completed our consideration of all the amendments. We only have 5 amendments, and I'm very much asking you to make a statement to the committee head, because I see the logic of what Mrs. Hanna is saying, but in fact, the committee will recommend it. And ma'am, Ludmila, one second. Dear colleagues, in a few minutes there will be a twofold vote. I'm asking all the colleagues who are in the towers to enter the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to leave the buffet, go into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mrs. Ludmila, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u194	What are we talking about? We discussed this very carefully at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, you weren't there. And that thought that the committee then adopted was supported by the World Congress. Because they also think that the committee that is looking for a job that is engaged in some kind of paid job should move within the framework of the legislation of the State in which it is located and because it is engaged in a job that is not prohibited by that State. Thus, such an amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u195	I'll bet you a vote, but I'll give you another 30 seconds for Mrs. Honey's line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u196	Mrs. Ludmila, I am so grateful for your work and for your participation in the World Assembly of Ukrainians. I really wasn't, because I had a lot of international delegations. But my assistant left all the meetings and worked on it. What's important here is that from this amendment, if we don't take that phrase away, that means that all citizens who are not legally employed are not labour migrants. And that's not true, I answer. So the World Congress would still like to take this little amendment into account. I think Mr. Krulko and the rest of those who served would agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u197	What are we talking about? A man's working. It may not constitute a contract of employment. She's self-employed. But she cannot do the work or provide the services that are forbidden in this country. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, the positions are clear, we can vote. So, the esteemed society that supports the amendment, the amendment of the 5th National MP, Hanna Hopko, I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[13:41:36]] For 262 Decision taken. We welcome the amendment, thank the committee head, and thank the deputies for their active work. Before the vote one minute, Minister Rosenko. After a minute of voting, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u199	I'm very short. I would like to remind all the honourable members of the people how difficult it was for us to discuss with you here when we adopted this bill in the first reading. Not even the first time we voted on the basis of this bill. But then there was a very clear promise to both the government and the committee, and all of us, together with help, and together with the public organizations, we are working on this bill. Indeed, the committee carried out a Titanic work, attended the World Congress of Ukrainians, Ukrainian National Deputies, other migrant organizations, and today we have a more perfect document to support us today. It's essentially reformative, it's the first time today that it's raised the question and it's at the legislative level that it's really understanding labour migration and protecting workers' rights. I ask him to support and thank you all for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-05-m0.u200	Thank you for the minister's comment. In fact, they worked together, and I thank all those who have joined in preparing for the second reading. Now, I ask you to prepare for the vote, and you have a motion for a vote, draft Law on External Labour Migration, registration number 2330. 2330, acceptance in second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general. I'd like your support, colleagues. In the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Vote! Colleagues, we vote in second reading and in general. Vote. [[13:43:39]] For 304 304 votes. Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, a few organizational questions. Now we're going to solve a few organizational issues. But before that, listen very carefully. We have to vote with you one decision, we have a number of laws to consider, the tables are given to you. So I have a proposal to now vote on what we will continue to do at the evening session, as the Rules provide: to work towards the exhaustion of issues related to visa-free regime, gas rent and land moratorium and to consider the issue of elections in Mariupola. I ask you to support this, this proposal, my colleagues, and now support it with 226 votes. Please vote, my friends, in the evening session so we can continue. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:44:40]] For 304 Friends, thank you for supporting this decision. Next, dear colleagues, listen to me. Don't leave, please. I ask you to consider a draft law that will be put into the agenda, 3191, submitted by the Committee on Budgets. Please support his inclusion in the agenda. 3191. 3191, please. We've got 10 minutes till recess. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015. Vote. Please vote 3191. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:45:20.]] For 235 There's 235. And we're going to work on the committee. And second position. We still have two laws: 3196, which we voted on, did not include in the agenda of the day session, is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). Please also consider and support. 3196. Vote. Integrating into the agenda, friends, joining the agenda. Please be supportive. [[13:45:57]] For a hundred and And the last. (No vote) 3197: Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for periods of pretrial investigation). Guys, can I have your back, please? Include in the agenda of the day session. Identify yourself. [[13:46:23]] For-164 And he didn't get the necessary amount: 164. Come on, guys. We have a number of regulations for the formation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We always talk to you about committees meeting very and very slowly, not all. Therefore, I believe that it is our duty to satisfy the right of every national MP to work on a committee. Now, I would like to bring you to your consideration of proposal 3115: to give you a chance, dear friends, to pay attention! – Irina Stepanovni Lucenko to work with the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy respectively. So that's the question that the committee passed. I'd like to support him. 3115, decree. 3115, Irina Stepanovna Lucenko Ready? A little quieter, please, a little quieter. Vote. There'll be others. Here's 4 decrees or 5. Let's vote, this is 5 different decrees, please support. I think it's later. [[13:47:41]] For 216 Once again, colleagues, very carefully. 3115, this is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on committee membership. This is about the Ukrainian national deputy, Irina Lucenko. Please support the membership of the committee. Please vote, vote 3115. I'm all colleagues of all factions and groups, please support. Please vote, vote 3115. Keep it up, folks. [[13:48:21]] For 202 Of course, there's no need for votes in the room, we'll come back. It's a personnel issue, and we can get back to it. Now, dear fellows, we have a number of laws that we have announced that we are going to work on in the evening session. I ask you, the tables are all given out, I ask you to work closely with the tables. In accordance with my mandate, I would now like to request the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Paruba, to convene once again a working group of factions and groups under all these laws, to take another walk, to agree on all positions for effective voting, including with the participation of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you, colleagues. I declare the morning session closed. At 16 o'clock, I ask you to arrive without delay. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor.
