ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work. The secretariat of the Supreme Council please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work and all of the towers please come into the hall and take your seats. Dear colleagues, please step into the hall more actively so that we can get started. We're leaving the towers, we're going into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Prepare to register. We're continuing our work. Please take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. [[16:08:44]] 338 deputies are registered in the Supreme Council Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, as the national deputies take their seats, let us move on to the issue of the order of the day’s second reading. We've stopped until we vote 2757, it's already discussed in the second reading. Let's move on to registration number 1058. 1058: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of State-private partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment). It reports, more precisely, on the second reading, the draft law is presented by the head of the profile committee, Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u3	Please report, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs, I present to you a draft of Law 1058 on amendments to the Law on State Private Partnership, re-reading. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, this very important bill has been prepared for the second readout. One amendment to the second read was made, and practically the committee left the draft law in its previous edition. But I would like to highlight a few very important things that we have to consider with you today in order to adopt this bill. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I ask your attention, we are considering a very important law. You're shown television, your esteemed colleagues. I don't think it's nice for our voters to see how when we're looking at a law that's aimed at investing, at creating jobs, people are not just not there, they're talking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u5	Dear fellow national MPs! I feel the necessary intervention of the Head of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking you to focus, calm down. An important question. But I ask the rapporteur to inform the people's deputies of the substance of the matter. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! In fact, it's a bill. This bill expands the scope of the state-private partnership, opens up new spheres of investment in Ukraine. According to World Bank experts, the potential for private investment in Ukraine, in infrastructure projects, mainly through a state-private partnership model, is almost $100 billion. This is a colossal sum, and this law we have to open the door for investors. This bill clearly, legislatively, lays down the main features of public-private partnership by direct action. It provides additional public guarantees to private investors, expanding the circle of entities that may be public partners under Ukrainian legislation. It creates more flexible institutional and legal mechanisms that are traditionally used by international companies in their investment practice. The law provides for very powerful legislators against the alienation of state property, so it is kept in the hands of the state, but more effectively used. The law provides for the obligation to take into account the socio-economic and environmental consequences that occur after a state-private partnership. The bill provides for a public analysis of the effectiveness of the State-private partnership on the Mine-Economic Development site, so that every citizen, every entrepreneur, can control the state, control the local executive authorities on the implementation of State Partnership projects. He foresees the possibility of not making the terms and conditions worse for the investor, and so forth. At the same time, I would like to point out that the draft Law removes a number of controversial norms that were on the first reading, mainly due to the amendments of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic. This version of the bill does not provide for the specificities of public procurement. It does not provide for the specificity of monetary regulation, and it severely restricts the right to refuse judicial immunity and deprives free concessions of public objects. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, after the committee meeting, there have been some very important clarifications that I believe are to be supported here today with your support, with the support of the Head of the Supreme Council. I'm going to ask you to give me an opportunity to read out these very important details under the transcript so that you can count them in the vote. These are the proposals of the People's Deputy Rybkin, who is the author of a bill that includes a lot of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u7	Please let me finish reading the amendments. Please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u8	Including Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik’s very important suggestions, as well as the amendment made by Mrs. Sisoyenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that this bill be voted on and supported in the second reading and that the following positions be taken into account as a whole: Line 10 in paragraph 5 of Part One of Section I of the Bill, which amends paragraph 3 of Part One of the Ukrainian Law on Public Private Partnership, adds the following new sentences: “The winner or winners of the competition shall be/are not fully responsible for the performance of the public private partnership obligations”. The second definition. Line 14. Paragraph 9 of paragraph 1 of part 1 of section 1 and add the words: "under the conditions of acceptance and performance by a private investment partner." Line 22. Paragraph 1, paragraph 3, of Part One, and add the words "except assembly and transportation." To complete section I, paragraph 3, of the bill with a new paragraph three of the following, quote: "To complete the part with the first new paragraphs of this content: "To provide educational services and health services", "To manage the monuments of architecture and cultural heritage". Fifth clarification. Line 28. Paragraph 2, paragraph 4, of Part One, and add with the words, "Only if the private partner's investment liabilities are provided in a contract." Next. Line 50. Paragraph 5 of Part One, paragraph 7, and add to the new sentence the following sentence: "In the event of termination, termination of a contract entered into within a public-private partnership, the private partner automatically loses the right to use the land given to him by the state partner for a public-private partnership." Line 104. In paragraph 2, paragraph 16, part one, and the words "or arbitral tribunal" shall be deleted. Line 105. Paragraph 3 of paragraph 16 of Part One and after the words "so refused" add: "is carried out according to agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and", followed by text. Line 110. Paragraph 5 of paragraph 17 of Part One and after the words "has the right" to add the words "can't" or "can't" to the text. Line 113-116. Paragraphs 8 to 11 of paragraph 17 part one section And delete in part changes to article 20. That is, leave parts of article 20 in its current form. Line 171. In paragraph 11 of article 4, paragraph 4, of section I, on the new edition of part 3 of article 12 of the Act on Concessions, replace the words "costing" with the words "percentage of value", the word "profit" with the words "clean income". After the words "belongs to the concessionaire" add the words "the one built in the execution of the concession contract." The words "the limit size" are deleted. Passing a copy. Line 170, row 176. In paragraph 2 of paragraph 4 of section 2 and the words "or arbitral tribunal" shall be deleted. Line 179. Paragraph 3 of paragraph 6 of part four of the chapter And after the words "financing suitable jobs" add the words "if the volume and cost of work with the concessionaire is agreed", then the text. And the last amendment, line 203. In paragraph 3 of part nine of Chapter I, replace the words “the Cabinet of Ministers within the framework of the State-Private Partnership” with the words “in the framework of the State-Private Partnerships, which have been established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in agreement with the Supreme Council”, followed by the text. My fellow Members, I ask you to support these very important amendments, which are in agreement with the drafters of the bill, which we have worked with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade and which are necessary for us to adopt this very important bill here today as a whole and have sent, at last, a signal to international investors that we want them to be included in Ukraine with not empty political declarations, but with clear mechanisms and guarantees of protection of their rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have to follow through on the amendments under the Rules. And I ask you to prepare and pay attention to the authors of the amendments. So 3rd. Is the Deputy of the State of Sotnik insisting? No, it's not. Five o'clock, Head. 8th, Pinzenic. 11th, Pinzenic. 12th, Lensky. 13th. Captain. 14th. Pinzenic. 17th. Head. 18th. Pinzenic. 24th. Captain. 25th. Kosheyeva. 27th. Pinzenic. Please turn on Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I really want to confirm that many of the norms that have been and have caused me personal anxiety have been resolved in the course of the discussion with the Committee and the Ministry of Economics. Why do I want to draw attention to this amendment because we had an agreement? The point is that if an object is transferred to a state - owned partnership, the private partner has the right to use it first. You and I have made such a rule if there is no decision to privatize such an object, otherwise it will be a form of blocking privatization. We agreed on this position with you, and the Ministry of Economics supported it, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u11	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, we really discussed this amendment with you, and it applied to the period of completion of the State-Private Partnership. But after a thorough review of the bill's text, there are no such places, there's a norm, there's a line 45, which applies to the term of the Act on State-Private Partnership. So this way, you and I understand that if this object is granted for a period of time under a public private partnership agreement, the State can in no way violate the rights of a private partner and privatize, if this is during a state-private partnership. Together with what happens after the conclusion of the State-Private Partnership Agreement, we are absolutely in agreement here with you. But this norm, it is not, it is not in this bill, i.e. there is no restriction on the use, or the privatisation of a public-private partnership object after the conclusion of a public-private partnership agreement in this bill. So these positions that you've just talked about, they're completely durable essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u13	Do you insist on voting? Pinzenik doesn't insist on voting. Let's move on. 31st. Lechenko. Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u14	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First, I'd like to address both the rapporteur and the chairman. You know, well, you're turning the Supreme Council back into some kind of circus. You, if you're preparing for second reading, you're these amendments that you've just read from a sheet of paper for a very long time, and it's impossible, if you're looking at them in a professional way right now, you can't look at them in a professional way right now, you have to run them through a committee and distribute them on a table, officially approved or not approved, so that you can react to them somehow. Because it's, uh, sorry, it's a fine. As far as I'm concerned, there's a specific amendment. The amendment is about what you're suggesting that any objects created in the framework of a public private partnership may belong to a private partner on property rights. It is not compatible property, it is not shared property, it is a state and a private partner, but it can be exclusive to a private partner. Well, it's absolutely absurd, because then it's not an investment, it's called using government resources for its own wealth. So it's precisely my amendment to make sure that any created objects are within the framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u15	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u16	My bill relates to the fact that any of the DFS objects created belonged to the rights of shared share ownership, both to the private partner and to the public partner, so that there was indeed equality for the State to win from it as well as not only the exclusive private partner. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Jury, I would like to draw your attention to the right column, where there is a clear formulation, that, in particular, the order in which particles are identified in the right of ownership, created or acquired objects that are shared in the ownership of a public and private partner and so forth in the text. So this mode is predicted. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the provisions of this draft law, an object of public-private partnership, even if it belonged to a partially private investor, is passed on to a public partner after the contract has been terminated completely, according to this law. So this is the imperative of this law. So I suggest you leave the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u18	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Mr. Yuri! He insists. Please put to the vote the amendment of 31 People’s Deputies of Lehchenka. The committee expressed its position. Whoever supports the 31st amendment, please vote. [[16:26:16]] For 114 114 for. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. 39th, Pinzenic. Please turn on Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u19	Andrew Volodymyrovich, 33rd we missed, I want to stop at that, because 39th is not going to bet. It's a pretty principled amendment that, unfortunately, we didn't get along. The point is that the public private partnership allows land to be obtained outside the competition. The earth cannot be set aside on uncompetitive grounds, for it can become a form of dishonesty in obtaining and using land. Unfortunately, we didn't agree here, and I insist on voting on this amendment -- 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u20	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I want to draw your attention to two main positions. When a private partner of a public private partnership is selected, the land area is one of the elements of the conditions, and we simply cannot afford to have one private partner competition, and the other one to compete for someone who will use the area. Because then there's just no public private partnership. But at the same time, by completely dividing your observations and fears, in order to set up a clear fuse against the alienation of land, I'm going to re-record the line 50 that I just proposed under the transcript. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully. "In the event of termination, the termination of a contract entered into under a public private partnership, the private partner automatically loses the right to use the land granted to him by the public partner for a public private partnership." So that's how we're guaranteed to return that land to the state, and there's no land.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u21	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u22	Where there is no one, even a potential risk, to wash away the state's land is the absolute protection of the state. At the same time, it is not necessary to force a private investor to come and bring money to Ukraine twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u23	Do you insist on voting? He insists. Thus, an amendment to the 33rd People’s Deputies of Pinzenik is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:29:02]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Mr. Victor, I'm going back to 39. There's no questions about her, is there? 34th, Levenchenko. Please turn on the microphone. 34th Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u24	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, this amendment looks like Mr. Victor Pinzenic's. In fact, unfortunately, in this bill, as we often do, there are very negative standards in the session room in a more or less positive way. Well, it's the norm that says that you can get land out of the competition, put private firms all the way outside of the Earth code. I'm proposing this standard that you've prescribed, just to rule it out so it doesn't happen. There is an active Earth code, we need to act according to the Earth Code and not invent a bicycle. Because when you're inventing this bike, it's obvious why it's happening. We see what's going on now, illegal forgetfulness all over the country, especially in the capital, it's going to get even bigger. So I'm asking you to delete this rule. Let the land under the DFS stand out as any other land, according to the Earth Code, without any special procedures, to be lawful, justly. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u25	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Yuri, I am the first to share your concerns that the land of the state has not been wasted. But once again, I want to draw your attention as a professional and professional person, that if a public private partnership is going on and an appropriate tender is going on, the terms of the tender are, including putting the land not in ownership, but in use. And in the case of the termination of the treaty of State partnership or the early termination of this treaty, and the norm that I have just quoted twice under the transcript, it is an absolute security that protects the rights of the State and makes it impossible for any, let's say, illegal action with the land. I want to say that the norms of the Earth Code are fully distributed, including in the projects of the State-Private Partnership. But, at the same time, we can't afford to force an investor who isn't very eager to come to Ukraine, to force him to go through two competitions instead of one, just as they do in all the developed countries of the world. So I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u27	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting? A vote is taken on amendment 34, People’s Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[16:31:57]] For-94 The decision is not made. Let's move on. 40th National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. 44th, Pinzenic. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u28	My dear colleagues, I was deeply concerned about the standard of rejection of judicial immunity. And this is about the relationship between the state, not private partners, but between the state and the private partner. The formula that is now in the law is seriously different, quite different. But it says, "refoulement from judicial immunity in agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine." I don't know what "agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is. Is this a committee or the head of the Supreme Council? That's why I'm proposing -- and to confirm to the committee's head -- that the text of the law would be, "By decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." I mean, the way you read it, just change the "agreement" to "decision." And according to the last amendment, the word "agreement" will also have to be changed to "decision." If you consider this version, I will not insist on voting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u29	Thank you, Reverend Victor Mikhailovich. I support your proposal and I ask you to consider it as part of today's decision on this bill. And I also ask that, given the tremendous complexity of this bill, we provide for a second-reading vote, and in general with the necessary technical legal rights, so that we can have the opportunity, with our legal authorities, to further address the nuances that may arise today after the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u30	Do you insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Let's move on. 44th, Pinzenic. It was. 45th, Lensky. Don't insist. 49th, Pinzenic. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u31	Your Honor, I'm asking for all the confirmation, because you and I have agreed to do the following. That the law will remove a rule that allows courts to make decisions according to the rules of invalid law. This arrangement was reached, and I didn't hear what you said in the text. I'm asking you to confirm that the bill has disappeared. This is the position we agreed with the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u32	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u33	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, what I read on the transcript, it provides for the exclusion of the corresponding two paragraphs, so in this part we leave the law in the active form, not in the first reading, but in the current edition. We think we're taking this as the parentheses of our discussion today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u34	Do they insist on voting? No, it's not. Colleagues, '50s, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 54th, Head. Don't insist. 55th, Head. Don't insist. 57th, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 58th, Lensky. Don't insist. 59th, Solvar. Don't insist. 66th, Captain. Don't insist. '70s, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 76th, Kocheljeva. Don't insist. The '80s, Pinzenic. Don't insist. 81st, Lensky. Don't insist. And 82nd, Gordyev. Don't insist. So we went through all the amendments. I'd like a closing statement, literally one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall and there will be an important vote in a minute. Please come into the hall. Please, Mr. Halasyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the drafters of the bill, my colleague Alexander Kugel. I wish her the fastest recovery. My colleague, Mr. Rybchin. As well as Maxim Efimov, who took on the work of redrafting this bill, it was extremely difficult for him to read again. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, because without your proper amendments, the quality of the bill would be different. And I particularly want to thank the Ministry of Economics, the First Deputy Minister of Yulia Kovalov, without whose efforts this bill has not been in the same quality of preparation. And certainly, the Presidencies of the Supreme Council, as Vladimir Borisovich rightly points out. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the second reading and in general, taking into account what I have heard under the transcript as an additional amendment to the committee's decision, and taking into account the technical legal process. Dear colleagues, let's make our way. Let's take a step on the road to foreign investment in Ukraine. We need investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u36	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u37	We need investment in infrastructure today, in medicine, in culture, in education. And foreign investors will come if we create clear guarantees to protect their rights. This law is supported by USAID, this law is supported by the American Chamber of Commerce and Business Producers Associations. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a huge job has been done. Please take your seats, fellow nationals, please. Prepare for the vote of the draft Act (Registration No. 1058) on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of the State-Private Partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment) with technical and legal remedies, which were issued by the committee head Victor Halasyuk. Let's try the signal vote so we can. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. An important law. You heard the motion for a vote. Please, in the second reading, and in general, 1058, a signal vote with amendments, with changes announced by Victor Halasyuk from the rostrum, and accordingly by technical law. Please vote. In the second reading and in general. Signal. Vote. Signal. Vote. [[16:38:42]] For 248 Apparently, the MPs have concentrated, 248 votes. Please, in the second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. With the amendments by Victor Halasyuk, who announced a transcript from the rostrum and a technical legal order. Vote. Support me. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:39:10]] For 261 The law's been passed. Thank you. We are about to vote on the issues discussed, too. Please remain. Dear colleagues, thank you. The law has been passed. This is a demonstration of how they cooperate in preparing for the second reading of an important law. Dear colleagues, the draft law that we did not vote on before the morning session was concluded is Law 2757. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies (to reduce the quorum of the general congregations of members of society with limited responsibility), reported Andri Ivanchuk. 2757. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Is everyone focused? Let's have a signal vote. Earlier discussed 2757, the reduction of the quorum, respectively, is limited in liability. Take your seats, please. Concentrate. Come on. Signal voting, 2757 in second reading and in general on the reduction of the quorum of the general congregations of members of society with limited responsibilities. 2757. One minute. Let's have a vote, please. Signal voting in second reading and in general. Vote. [[16:41:03]] For 212 Ladies and gentlemen, 212 votes. Concentrate. I'm gonna do one more detail right now. Please concentrate, colleagues. Paul Rizanenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u39	Paul Rizanenko, author of Law 2757. I'll remind my respectable colleagues that the idea of the law was to reduce the quorum for farm societies as much as for stockholders. For the law that was passed in the first reading was certain, and there were certain observations. That he will also involve very many small societies, which are private, where there is no part of the state, and change relationships. It was these observations that were completely, completely taken into account in the second reading. And according to stock companies, where there is no part of the state, the quorum can be different. And it's the one defined by the statute. So the problem that many factions have raised is completely removed. I'm asking you to support this bill. In this way he is not conflictful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think this clarification was very important to the author of the bill. Colleagues, let's refocus, 2757. The signal vote on the quorum's decline. 2757 on the reduction of the quorum of the general congregations of members of the Society with limited responsibility. Signal vote. Ready? Please have a 2757 vote. We vote in the second reading and in general. [[16:42:59]] For 217 Colleagues, we don't, we don't. Yes, I see the colleagues have not arrived, please. It was a signal vote, take your positions, take your seats. Ready? Let's go, let's work, let's do a lot of day-to-day issues. Ready to vote? All right, guys, let's do it again. This is Law 2757. I see not all the national MPs have taken their seats. 2757: Decreasing the quorum of the general congregations of members of the Society with limited responsibility I think it was a good position for the author of the bill to clarify and clarify the provisions of the bill, which were ambiguous. Please, 2757. Colleagues, 2757, in the second reading and in general. Vote. Signal, we've got a vote. Vote, signal vote. We vote in second reading and in general. [[16:44:48]] For 222 Dear colleagues, there is still an offer. Well, for the last time, we can rediscover the last time. Yes, please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. I think we're about to secure a successful vote. Please take your seats, colleagues, please. So 2757: draft Act amending article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies (to reduce the quorum of the general congregations of members of a limited society). We've accepted similar questions before, and now we need to set such conditions for everyone else. But it has been noted that it is the right author of the bill that we should support this bill and resolve this issue. Are you guys ready? Let's do 2757 in the second reading and in the whole signal vote, your honorary colleagues. Please vote 2757, vote 2757. Please vote, signal vote, vote. [[16:46:55]] For 224 Almost. Colleagues, second reading and a total of 2757. Ready? They took their seats. Vote. 2757 in second reading and in general. Vote. We vote in the second reading and in general. We vote in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. We all vote, please. [[16:47:36]] For 233 Law adopted 2757. 2844, Honorary Colleagues, draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine). Voicemail Victor, please. Fellows, we still have a lot of questions, let's move hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u41	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I present to you the draft Law 2844 (with regard to removing regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine). Prepared for rereading, it is programmed by the General Legal Authority without notice. Recommended for adoption in second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, please support as a whole as a law, with technical legal work. With regard to the motivation for the adoption of this law. It's very simple. A 13 per cent share of the economy in Ukraine, more than 20 per cent in European countries in Poland, Slovakia and others. That is why in Ukraine, GDP per capita is less than $8,000 and there is more than 20,000. So the difference is three, four times in the welfare of the citizens, because in Ukraine we just export foreign processed raw materials, and other countries from our raw materials are also making ready products that are then sold to us, including IMF loans. So, respectable colleagues, support for industrial parks is a real tool for investing in the real economy, in the processing industry, where jobs are created, where taxes are paid. I want to emphasize that there are 76 industrial parks in Poland, and we see the result of economic development very well. As far as the law itself is concerned. I want to emphasize why he's dedicated. It's about setting clear and clear rules for the game. He foresees simplification, becoming an industrial park participant, so that this is done without bureaucratic obstacles, simplifying the procedure in the election management company, clarifying the requirements that are set out in the industrial park, setting them up at the level of law, that is, direct action, so that there are no sub-legal acts that are then abused. It is the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade's obligation to publish a full list and information on industrial parks, and this is an opportunity to sub-rendate land to manufacturing companies without further re-agreement with local authorities. So, my fellow Members, I urge you to support this bill as well as the previous one, because it is just like the State Private Partnership Bill, which is part of the legislative plan for reforming that we have agreed with you and adopted in the Supreme Council, which is supported by the Ministry of Economics, and this is a real tool for today to involve investment and correct the shameful situation that exists in the economy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. 2 amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u43	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Look what you're trying to do. The current legislation states that industrial parks are designed for industrial production. You're proposing to replace it with the phrase "reprocessing industry." The manufacturing industry, according to the active KWEDs, which are, by the way, approved by executive authorities, not by law, and can change at any time, is a very narrow concept, a very narrow concept. And now that you've been talking about high technical moments, in fact, according to the active KWEDs, it's very high-tech, such as information, telecommunications, which includes computer programming, publishing, electricity, professional science and technology, which includes research, development, technical testing, research, the provision of architectural, engineering services, and so on. These concepts, according to the active Quebecs, are not part of the manufacturing industry. So if you make the change you're proposing right now, you're actually in industrial parks instead of doing high-tech manufacturing, you're essentially going to do Chinese. When, you know where he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u44	Ten seconds, finish. 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u45	Thank you. When is most of the value of an iPhone, do you know where most of the value of an iPhone is sitting? It's not sitting in China's so-called industrial park, which just collects this device, it's sitting in California, where it's designed for it, where software is produced for it. So you're proposing a model now that we're creating Chinese industrial parks. I urge you not to do this, because this is not the right way. Consider my amendment. Leave either the old version, or write more detailed standards of the KWED, so that it also takes into account the information on telecommunications.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current version of the Industrial Parks Act, to which we amend it, provides for three permitted activities. The first is production, industrial production, what you're talking about. The second is scientific research and the third is information activities. So in this way, with the changes we make to the law, we define the term and predict the term "reprocessing industry," which, dear fellows, includes all industry, except mining and energy. It's a pharmaceutical, it's a machine-building, it's a food industry, it's an easy industry. All these codes of economic activity are part of the manufacturing industry, and this is a complete analogy to the international term "manufacturing industry," or manufacturing industry in the broad sense of that word. Please read existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please identify 2 amendments, National MP Lechchenko, rejected by the Committee. Identify yourself. [[16:54:11]] For-163 I didn't get the required number of votes. People's MP Kiral, 7th Amendment. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Firemark. Don't insist. 24th, People's Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 25th, Markevich National MP. Don't insist. 30th National Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 34th, 34th, People's Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 30. 41st doesn't insist either. 42rd, neither does it. 43rd National MP Yuri Lewchenko. He insists. Please, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u49	Thank you. I would still like to take advantage of this amendment. Because, in fact, the comparison to what I said at the outset is mildly secondary. Dear Mr. Victorore, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that I, in particular, discovered KVEDI on a break. Not now. Well, you're actually saying the wrong things. In Section "C" - "C", there's a processing industry, it's a separate thing. There's section "G" -- information and telecommunications -- that's a separate CED. Section "M" is a professional scientific and technical activity, it's a separate KWED. You don't prescribe it in the law. If you don't want my amendment, as I've announced, accept it, change it, propose your option to expand it not only to be a manufacturing industry, but also information, telecommunications, professional, scientific and technical activity. Otherwise, I'm stressing once again, if you look at de jure and do the letter of the law, and you have to do the letter of the law in Ukraine, you're creating Chinese industrial parks that are going to be exclusively collecting some kind of product, not making real extra value. Listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u50	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u51	Mr. Yuri, I heard you very carefully. I want you to hear me now. The Act in force, not the first edition of this law, but the Act in force on Industrial Parks provides for three types of activities: manufacturing, scientific research and activities in the field of information, telecommunications. So we don't touch the second and third direction, we first, we specify its name, because its name, the exact one we're proposing, corresponds to the codes of economic activity. It's a manufacturing industry. Thus, high-tech research, information activities -- they were both subject and will continue to be subject to this law. We don't rule them out in any way. So what you're saying is, in fact, that's what it is today. Therefore, there is no need to make it an additional readjustment. But I fully agree with you that industrial parks all over the world are not just the centers of material production, it's the centers of scientific research, it's the production of high value added.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 43 revisions. We don't vote, we don't insist on the author. 44th, Markevich. Don't insist. 46th, People's Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 50th. They don't insist either. 51st. Don't insist. 52nd. Don't insist. And 62nd. They don't insist. 66th. They don't insist either. And 69th. Victor Halasyuk does not insist. Dear colleagues, we have passed the table according to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Solovay, one minute. Yes, yes, come in, please, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u53	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, it's very nice that we're finally starting to look at economic bills, because to my deep conviction, today, when we of 100 bills are not 5 we're looking at economics, we're looking at 95 that we're looking at and we're talking about economics. As far as this bill is concerned, dear colleagues, I think that each of us who goes to Poland, Romania or Hungary sees that every city in these countries has industrial parks, where the vast majority of the people who live in these cities work. This bill seriously simplifies and guarantees those who will be involved in the creation of industrial parks so that they can take place and guarantee investors who will come to Ukraine to invest their investments will be preserved. So I'm asking all my colleagues to mobilize and support an extremely important bill that took into account all the possible and necessary adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u54	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Humil, People's Front, from the authors and we'll vote, we'll vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u55	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I would also like to urge unanimous support for this bill and to remind you that in the last week of the summer session we have not been able to get enough votes, even though this bill has been voted by the representatives of all the factions and groups that are in Parliament. I would like to remind you that the drafters of this bill are 18 people's deputies, who represent all the factions of our Parliament. You know, two words I'm going to say is a completely framework law that just defines industrial parks as one of the tools for our country's economic growth. If there was a technical way to get on the screen right now, if the technical services can hear me right now, oh, please look. This is the number of industrial parks located in Eastern European countries. I want to emphasize what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u56	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u57	I want to say that this is exactly the way the countries of Eastern Europe have gone and have achieved much better results. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I invite everyone to the hall and unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. Victor Krivenko. One minute from the copyright team, and we're going to the vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! I want to thank all colleagues who co-sponsor the bill. You just saw a slide, but it's a two-year-old slide, not 38 industrial parks in Slovakia anymore, but 71. In Slovakia alone, three instruments compensate the investor for up to 50 percent of his investment. We recently returned from Lithuania, where the state compensates manufacturing enterprises for 30-40 percent of their investment. East Germany is up to 25 percent. The whole world is fighting for investment. This law is certainly a step towards making Ukraine attractive to the involvement of investors. But we will still be weaker in terms of business, investors than Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Turkey, Lithuania. I want to thank the Ministry of Economics, which in 10 months, finally, is clear about the need to fight for investment through tools and is already supporting and creating industrial parks, an export credit agency. I ask everyone to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I can tell you, like the former city head, that today all cities, districts, areas need solutions to allow them to create a new economic base, and through tools like industrial parks. And I hope that you and I will vote for changes to our fiscal, tax system that will stimulate economic growth, and there will be new high-tech jobs in Ukraine. This is extremely important. So I don't think anyone needs to be agitated here, but we need to take these steps and be systematic enough. And I also want to thank the entire community for preparing this bill. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues. Draft Law (Registration No. 2844), draft Law on the removal of regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine. Signal voting, second reading and in general. Colleagues! Signal vote, please stand by. Signal voting, second reading and in general. Industrial parks. Let's vote, colleagues. Signal vote, please stand by. [[17:03:47]] For 246 In the second reading and in general. Vote. In the second reading and in general. Vote. [[17:04:07]] For 266 Law, 266 votes, approved. Hello. Next, dear colleagues. Fellow Members of the National Parliament, we have three decrees to be included in the Committee of the Three People’s Deputies. This is Nemirowski, a national deputy, Sverk, and the national deputy of Sevrukov. In fact, all these decisions are ready. There's a committee meeting tomorrow, and they don't need to be included in the agenda. So I'm sure I'll put them to the vote now. First. And Melniczuk? See, fellow Members, draft Decree (3121) concerning the inclusion of Mr. Andriy Valentinović, Ukrainian national deputy, non-factional, member of the Committee on Law Enforcement. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda. 3121. We vote on the basis as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. It's a member of our colleague's committee. Let's vote, colleagues. Allow your colleagues to work. [[17:05:44]] For-189 No votes, 189. Next. 3255: National Deputy Sevrukov Vladislav Volodymyrovich to the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy. Order 3255. Vote. Sevrukov, national MP, freedom of speech, committee. I have to say, it's a new MP. We need to be able to work. Please vote, please support. Thirty-two-five rulings. [[17:06:25]] For a hundred and There are no votes needed. And the third. This is Sverk Grigory Aronovich, Ukrainian national deputy, member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy. Please support 3256 rulings. In general, please. National Deputy Sverk Grigory Aronovich. Please vote, vote. Member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. [[17:07:00]] For 197 There's no need. Let's move on, dear fellows. First reading. 3032 Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the regulation of legislation in the creation and operation of duty-free shops. 3032 first reading. There is an offer by the authors to consider it as a basis. Please, by the summary procedure, please vote. Under reduced procedure 3032. [[17:07:47]] For-167 Please, the decision is made. Oleg Krishin, Ukrainian national deputy. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u61	Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, Ukrainian national deputies, proposed by the above-mentioned bill to amend the list of transactions subject to tax at zero value added tax, the supply of goods to duty-free shops solely. Citizens entering the customs territory of Ukraine at crossing points across the state border of Ukraine, opened for international air connections. Passengers of international flights operated by air, water, and rail commercial vehicles operated by residents In addition, it is proposed to clarify the procedure for the importation by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine of taxable goods exempt from tax on added value. It should be noted that the draft law should be considered simultaneously with the bill (registration number 3033), since it is systematically linked. The adoption of the two bills 3032 and 3033 will legislatively expand the list of persons who will have the right to purchase goods in duty-free shops at the expense of citizens entering Ukraine and will undoubtedly have a number of positive effects on both social and economic services, first of all, ensuring the creation of conditions, including the involvement of foreign direct investment in new income and cost-effective service facilities, which will in turn allow for the creation of a significant number of new jobs, contribute to higher employment levels and increase tax revenues to all levels of budgets. It's different. It will help reduce the flow from the country of the currency. Third. It will facilitate the profitable use of infrastructure facilities and active international airports. Four. It will provide greater comfort.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u62	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u63	Enhancing the comfort of passenger service. The bill has been considered on a profile committee and is recommended for adoption as a whole. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u64	Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u65	Dear National Deputies! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! The bill, as the author has just reported, proposes to extend the zero tax rate to the added cost of supplying goods to citizens entering the customs territory of Ukraine at points of entry across the state border of Ukraine open to international air connections. It is also suggested that the list of excise goods imported by citizens into the customs territory of Ukraine should be limited without payment of excise duty. In considering the bill, we discussed all the technical possibilities for implementing the bill. In addition, members of the committee pointed out that the limitation of the number of excise goods that do not exceed the duty-free import standards laid down in the Customs Code of Ukraine is exempt from excise duty solely by alcohol and tobacco products. Since this approach does not take into account the case of import regulations for other taxable goods, the Ukrainian National Deputies suggested that members of the Committee should be excluded from the bill. The National MPs of Ukraine also noted that they needed to bring the bill's terminology to terms used in the Tax Code, in particular with a view to taxing added value and excise taxes, the term "physical persons" is used, not "citizens". In general, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Regulation of Legislation in the Establishment and Functioning of Shops without Customs to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law excluding paragraph 2 of section I of the Bill on Amendments to paragraph 213. 3.3. Paragraph 213 of the Ukrainian Tax Code and taking into account technical legal rights. Thank you for your attention. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u66	Thank you. Please, two "for", two "against", please sign in, Hennady Tchakouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u67	Please give Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u68	Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u69	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! What is involved in this bill? Worldwide, the value added tax is used to tax imported goods and Ukrainian goods, which is the consumption tax. Exports are subject to a zero tax rate. Because consumption of goods will be in another country and the right to tax this tax is the right of the country to import goods from Ukraine. What the drafters are proposing. The drafters propose to create a regime when goods are taxed at zero VAT in Ukraine. What does that mean? That the same goods in Ukraine in the customs territory of Ukraine will be sold with VAT, and the same goods will be sold without VAT. On the other hand, the regime of release is used for imports. As a result, imports in Ukraine will be sold without VAT. It's discriminatory conditions, it's creating an offshore inside Ukraine. I would like to point out that the prohibition of such taxation provided for in EU Directive 169 of 1969, Directive 47 of the year 2000, Directive 93 of the European Union, provides, prohibits the entry into Ukraine of citizens from being exempt from customs duties and from non-direct taxes, which include VAT and excise duties. By the way, the EU Association Agreement, Chapter 8, contains a direct reinforcement of Directives 47 and 93. The Ukrainian Parliament has made a commitment under the agreement to comply with these two directives of the European Union. This bill and the next bill only apply to this rule. I invite my colleague to vote against this bill. And the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u71	The People's Front faction supports the adoption of the bill for all Ukrainian deputies and citizens. I'll say it's very simple. Today, those who leave Ukraine can use Duty Free stores by buying goods and moving them to other countries. If we adopt this law as a whole, then those citizens who arrive in Ukraine will be able to purchase goods in the halls on arrival or in the areas where buses or railways pass. Therefore, the law is completely adequate, it will help create a significant number of jobs, and it is reasonable. Such practices exist in European countries, and we need to adopt them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u72	Please, Natalia Royal, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! Of course, such practices may exist in European countries, but we wanted to make decisions today that are as relevant as possible. Today, prices in Ukrainian shops for the products of our domestic producer, unfortunately even for the social group of goods, exceed all reasonable limits. Today, when Grandma enters the pharmacy, she no longer knows whether she is in a jewelry store or in a pharmacy because the price of each pill is equal to the price of a gram of gold. We therefore ask you to consider an urgent draft of the Opposition Block, where we insist on the introduction of state regulation and the imposition of a restrictive allowance on a group of social goods. Because today you can look at Duty Free stores, today you can talk about duty-free goods, create offshore zones in our country, but we must remember that our country is today the poorest in Europe. And we need to bring together all the efforts of Parliament in order to allow our simple person, the pensioner at least to buy the products first, first, I want to stress once again your need. And I would like this valuable time in Parliament to be spent on the consideration of socially important bills. And I would like to address the President of Parliament with the idea of having a social day in our room and introducing a social bill on the agenda. And with Duty Free, I think the country will wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u74	Please, Eugene Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. The Rebirth faction will support this bill, and I ask you to pass it on to Chicken Maxim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u76	Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u77	Thank you. Chicken Maxim, town of Dnipropetrovsk. Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, has long been a fairly common practice in many countries of the world and in Europe for the operation of duty-free shops in international airports. As long as Ukraine is not a member of the circle of such countries, the current legislation effectively prohibits the creation of such shops in the areas of arrival and in the territory of Ukraine. The lack of opportunities for our citizens to use duty - free shops when entering Ukraine forces them to purchase such goods in shops located in territories of other nations. Thus, our buyers, the buyers of these goods, leave large, huge amounts of financial cash outside Ukraine. This money has to be, stay in our state. The situation needs to be rectified, it's the development of the entire trade and services sector, it's jobs and stuff, it's the first time. Secondly, this bill will allow our active national international airports to load their infrastructure as efficiently as possible. Dear colleagues, this is a promising draft law, it is necessary to be in Europe, it is necessary to be a full member of the world's society. I propose to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u78	Thank you. Please contact the Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u79	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with Article 140 of the Customs Code, the duty-free trade regime provides that the customs regime, according to which goods are not intended for free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine, are located and implemented for export outside the customs territory of Ukraine. At the same time, goods intended for free circulation in the customs territory of Ukraine are moved to the customs regime of import and, in accordance with article 75, paragraph 3, of the Customs Code, customs payments are subject to payment. It should be noted that the current requirements of the Ukrainian Customs Code are in line with the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures, which became effective for Ukraine on September 15, 2011, as well as the European Commonwealth Customs Code. I point out once again that the prescribed bill is incompatible with European law and cannot be recognized as being acceptable in Ukraine. Moreover, the introduction of a zero tax on the added value of the above transactions is not in line with the basic principle of value-added tax collection and does not correspond to the international practice of applying the value-added tax system, in particular the principle of the place of consumption of the goods, the services of the country of destination. I'm drawing your attention. That implementation of the bill may lead to a lack of customs payments to the budget and, most importantly, to the emergence of tax avoidance schemes due to the possibility of imports into Ukraine by resident citizens of large quantities of various foreign goods to be purchased in duty-free shops. I very much ask you not to support this bill, because it will not work for the benefit of either the State or it does not comply with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. The question has been discussed. 3032 draft law, there is a proposal to vote on it as a basis. Please. Prepared, please. 3032. Are you ready, colleagues? 3032, ready? We're voting on the ground. Based on the base. [[17:23:18]] For-173 173 – the law did not get the required number of votes. We can get it ready for rereading. Vote, re-send the first reading, first again, to the author first. [[17:23:50]] For-183 None. The bill is considered to be rejected. 3033, this is a bill that is derivative. Do I get it right? It doesn't make sense to look at it, the author takes it off the table. Thank you. 2142a, 2142-1. Dear fellow national MPs, I would ask you to work effectively, at the end of our session we will consider three issues at the very end. Attention! It's a payment to the military, within the Ministry of Defense's remittances, to pay them their salaries, our army. This is Bill 3379, and we put it in the agenda, and there's the conclusion of the committee. And two laws: 1402, 1403 is the issue of motor vehicles that have to be transferred to the ATO. Here are three questions that I suggest we consider at the very end. Just so you know, these social issues and military issues are going to be considered, so they're focused. 2142a, 2142-1, Victor Halasyuk and Mikhailo Golovko are authors. At the author's suggestion of a reduced procedure. Please. Please, Your Honor, this is with regard to the consideration of the reduced procedure, please support. [[17:25:24]] For 158. The decision has been made. Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I present to you the draft Law 2142a on the support of Ukrainian exporters, on the creation of a special export credit agency that exists in more than 70 countries around the world. Dear colleagues, the free trade agreements in which Ukraine has entered is a huge market opportunity to bring us to the level of European prosperity. But that is not a guarantee. Because for us to benefit from these agreements, we need to produce the products that are needed in foreign markets and sell them in foreign markets. And here was to help the Ukrainian manufacturer, the Ukrainian exporter only with political declarations, need specific tools of support, such as those operating in other countries. You remember the government's job is to double Ukrainian exports by the 19th. What really happened? Exports dropped by nearly 14 percent. There was $62 billion in merchandise exports, which was $53 billion. Why? Because there are no real tools for promoting Ukrainian goods to foreign markets. With this bill, we're correcting this situation. He predicts four functions. It's insurance, it's a guarantee, and it's a waste of credit for Ukrainian exporters, and it's an advisory support. This bill is going to be an engine of Ukrainian exports, not raw materials, but finished products, manufacturing. We worked on this bill together with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, with Mrs. Mikolski, with Mrs. Koval, with the working group, with Pricewaterhouse Coopers, with Ukreximbank, with the Ukrainian Society of Financial Analysts, the Scientific Research Institute of Financial Law and the Reanimation Package of Reforms. This bill allows Ukraine, including the accumulation of international finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u83	These include the accumulation of international financial assistance and the directing of it not to eat, not to block holes in the budget, but to create new market opportunities, to support small and medium-sized businesses, to those Ukrainian manufacturers who produce ready-made products, and to sell it abroad. This institution, it will allow you to facilitate Ukrainian exports abroad. I would like to stress separately that this bill is fully in line with Council of the European Union Directive 9829 of 7.0598 on the Harmonization of Basic Provisions for Export Credit Insurance, and is fully in line with the WTO Agreement on Grants and Compensation, the Agreement on Officially Supported Export Credits of the OECD Countries of the World. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to support an extremely important bill in the first reading and to complete that triad of industrial investment bills today: the State Private Partnership, Industrial Parks and Export Promotion Agency, which will allow the Ukrainian manufacturer to get off his knees and start to think about the prospect, even though you might think about development. If other countries of the world did so back in 78 C.E.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u84	Finish up. Finish up. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u85	In 80, believe me, today is the time for real economic growth in Ukraine, and we all have to understand here with you regardless of the political views that economic growth is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Golovko, Ukrainian National Deputy. Please, Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u87	Mikhailo Golovko, U.K.A. Freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed in Bill No. 2142a-1, this is an alternative to amending certain Ukrainian laws (for export risk insurance and export credits). I think it's very important for our country to export because we are an export-oriented country and more than 50 percent of GDP is an export of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the trend in recent years has shown a negative decline. Last year, we lost more than $11 billion in export earnings. This, in turn, led to the decline of the national bracelet, the rise of the dollar almost fourfold. And in its own time, it gives, first of all, the decline in Ukrainian purchasing power, and the poverty of Ukraine as a whole. What I'm saying is that, unfortunately, the economy has fallen rapidly in the last year. We, more industrial production, have fallen by 22 percent. Unemployment increased, more than two and a half million Ukrainians lost their jobs, and so on. And that's why our job today is to stimulate exports, stimulate production in our country, create jobs. And to act on the principle of other countries, including our European partners, which in various ways stimulate their manufacturer, especially small and medium-sized businesses, not just oligarchs. Because this legislation should primarily apply to small and medium-sized businesses, not just to stimulate large businesses, or oligarchs. And thus give impetus to our economy. That's why we think we support, we urge you to support this bill that aims, firstly, to create a state institution that protects exporters, their production. This would allow them to create new jobs, give them enough credit, lend them their production, their activities. We believe that these steps are essential for the country as a whole. Unfortunately, however, the government is demonstrating an indifferent attitude, including Prime Minister Yatsenuk, towards manufacturing in our country, to exporters, to creating new jobs. So we urge you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Sergey the Fisherman. The head of the committee, Sergey Rybalka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! Our colleague, Victor Halasyuk, has already talked about the importance of creating an effective export support system and promoting domestic goods to new markets. I would like to add that without this, under the strict conditions of the WTO, our country will never succeed. This has been proved by dozens of countries around the world. It is impossible to compete with them when they already have such systemic support. And they've been working effectively for decades. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, at its meeting on 15 July this year, reviewed draft laws on ensuring the large-scale expansion of Ukrainian producers by means of insurance, insurance and credit costs (number 2142a) and amending certain Ukrainian laws on export risk insurance and export credits (2142a-1). Both projects are aimed at introducing state export support. Both envision the creation of a specialized state institution for insurance, insurance, and export credit. But Law 2142a is more systematic and complex. Therefore, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Law 2142a to adopt as a basis. In our second reading, we will be able to work on it, taking into account all the good points made. Please support everyone, this is extremely important for the development of Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Two for, two against, please. Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u91	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, well, of course, creating new jobs and supporting business development today is question number one, which should be considered by the Ukrainian Parliament. As far as the bill is concerned, we are definitely forced to support it today. But in addition to that, I would like to draw attention to one very serious question that is unfortunately not being resolved today. Today, the whole business in Ukraine is completely out of credit and it is most surprising that companies with 100 percent export contracts and a Ukrainian state that is able to obtain an international financial lending institution of 2-3 percent today are unable to lend this kind of business. And so, of course, such bills are a step forward in the direction of opening up at least a little credit, especially an expertly oriented enterprise in the middle of Ukraine. And that's why I'm asking all my colleagues to support this bill as well as the bills that we've discussed before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u92	Please, Your Honor. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u93	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to take this time to thank all the authors of this bill who put the interests of the Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian producers above their political and other ambitions. This is Oleg Lazko, this is Victor Krivenko, this is Sergey Rybalko, this is Nina Yuzanin, this is Polakov, Kozachenko, Gopko, Krishin, Dobmrovsky, Kutov, Efimov, Wolf, Krivoscha. Semerak, Demczak, Hirschfield, Nechayev. I thank you very much and I want to say that if we learn to put the interests of the Ukrainian economy and Ukrainian society above any temporary differing viewpoints, we will begin a real economic recovery. And I would like to emphasize that in this room there is no such recipe for economic recovery as simply adopting strategies, like performances with beautiful presentations, like travel abroad. Ukraine's new economy, Ukraine's new future, it's created, or it's not created by adoption, or by non-admission of such economic bills. So I urge you, on behalf of the Radical Party faction, to support the export credit agency bill, on the scale of stimulating Ukrainian exports abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal. Please take your seats, colleagues, we're finishing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u95	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! The Opposition Unit believes that today we do not need to consider a comprehensive economic recovery programme. And no punctually resolved, no gaping, and the creation of another public institution today will solve the global problem of our economy. Well, let's be honest. Since the beginning of the year, Donbass' recovery agency has been established here. And you know how this agency works? They still have no chair, no desk, no computer, no payroll. And unfortunately, this government agency never earned any money. Today we will create a new institution. I'll tell you the truth, it's just a place to hire officials. And the fact that we need concessional loans to the business today, I don't think any of the deputies present in the Chamber have any doubts about that. But you don't have to divide business into export and domestic business. Today, it is necessary to support both the domestic producer and the small and medium-sized business, which operates both internally and externally. To that end, there must be an adequate policy of the Government of the National Bank, and there must be adequate concession rates to support our producer. Today we need to provide adequate conditions, both tax and fiscal. That is what today should unite our room and solve the problem in the economy in a comprehensive, not precise, decision-making manner that we wish to report again on Parliament's work. The Opposition Unit therefore proposes to consider these decisions in the context of an integrated programme for the economic recovery of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u96	Please take our seats, dear colleagues. Borislav Rosenblatt, a minute, and we go to the vote, your honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u97	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to point out that on January 1st, we have a free trade zone with the European Union, and we need to understand that in the fight between competitiveness, our goods will not be better in quality. So today, support for our export potential and in general do everything we can to enable our industries to compete with our Western partners, that depends on this law today. And I would particularly like to suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers should do everything in order to make it not just another fiction, some bureau in turn, but just all the sub-legal acts that would allow this office to work properly. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The draft law (registration number 2142a-1) proposed by the committee is a proposal to adopt 2142a. The Committee's findings, the draft law on the large-scale export expansion of Ukrainian producers through insurance, security and export credit. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Take your seats. On the basis of 2142a, on the basis of that, there will now be a signal vote, honorary colleagues. Please be prepared. 2142a as a basis, please vote. Please support, on a base. Signal voting on the basis, voting, colleagues. We're voting on the basis of a signal. [[17:40:44]] For 209 109. According to factions, attention. This, colleagues, is the basis of the draft law. Based on the base. Colleagues, please take your seats. So, ready to vote, is there mobilization? Please take your seats. Once again, mobilize, please take your seats, 2142a. Signal voting on the ground, colleagues. And then we're going to prepare it for the second reading -- that's the basis. 2142a is based on. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Signal vote, please vote, please support. Vote, vote! That's better. [[17:42:01]] For 246 Now we vote on the basis, colleagues. It was a signal. Vote. We vote, no one leaves our seats, we vote, we vote for the basis. That's much better. [[17:42:23]] For 256 The law was passed on as a basis. Let's move on to 2674: the draft law on recognition of the loss of validity, the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Stabilise Ukraine's Balance of Payments in accordance with Article XII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1994. The author is Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Colleagues, it's about import duties. Okay. We'll look at it a little bit later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, chairman of the committee. We're going to consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please, with regard to the consideration of the reduced procedure, we are voting on the reduced procedure. [[17:43:44]] For 197 Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna and will report to the co-author Tetjana Ostrikov, Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u99	So, then, the co-author first?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u100	Aunt Ostrikova, please. Please report, Tetjana Ostrikav, please 2674.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This bill is very simple. You all remember that on December 28, at the request of our government, you and I voted in favour of stabilizing the balance of payments by introducing an additional import congregation in the form of 5 or 10 percent depending on the type of goods. And we all know what the consequences of the economy, import, customs, have led to the introduction of this additional import congregation. In fact, importers learned very quickly to put these 5 or 10 percent into the customs value of the goods, but we all know that the tax base is declining by the added value and the import tax. Therefore, none of us counted, in fact, the cost of Ukraine’s budget resulting from the introduction of this additional import congregation. Moreover, when the government asked us to do so, they put 17 billion dollars into the budget that they would like to collect from the introduction of this tax. They're gathered a long time ago, they're gathered in September. So the law reached its goal, the balance of payments stabilized, and 17 billion went into the budget. So we can cancel this law now. Moreover, it was suggested that this law would be put into effect only if it agreed with international financial institutions. This never happened. No formal written consent was given. In this regard, this law cannot be considered to have legitimate validity. That's why the Fatherland faction, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, a number of other factions have taken the initiative in April this year to repeal this law, to recognize it as having become invalid: The Ukrainian Balance of Payments Act. This needs to be done, colleagues, this needs to be done right now, because now, we know, there's a pre-war season going on when goods are being imported into Ukraine mass: and imported food, some gifts, cloth on New Year's costumes and so on -- and actually this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u102	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u103	In fact, this was introduced on February 1st, so it's going to be in effect by February 1st. And you and I can now, we have all the important things to do to stop it on time, because it: (a) was brought into action illegally; it's harmful to the economy of the state; and it leads to price increases for imported goods. And we can cancel it now. Please support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u104	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Colleagues, I suggest next time, a minute! Look, we have now, as much as we can do, 30 minutes. Attention! 30 minutes. I'd like to suggest next time we build our work. I'm saying that we're all going to talk about pros, pros, which is very important and so on. Then we'll report it to the press. I have an offer: to work as fast as possible, to make decisions, and to now decide to make wages for the military, to pay salaries to the military. And the second position is to look at a set of questions about electric cars. So we're going to assume that this block, if there's no objection, we're going to do the order of the day of our session today. Is there no objection to that logic? So I'd really like to focus and not use the rules for once, okay. Thank you very much. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that, on behalf of the committee, 5-10 per cent of the additional import assembly was held on July 2, 2015, and on behalf of the committee, a request was made to both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the destructive force of this additional assembly, especially for those sectors with more than 80 per cent of the imported ingredients. And the budget did not get a significant amount of income and tax on the added value, and the excise collection because much of the imports of raw materials were also reduced in Ukraine. So, of course, we need to support this bill, and even though it seems to be losing its power because it's only been introduced for 12 months, but waiting until February 20, there's no way we can, we have to cancel immediately, all the more so that the amount that was planned to come into the budget has already arrived completely. The only thing I want to say is that in order for the standard to actually work, this bill has to come into force from the 1st month in which this law is published, in order to get all the necessary instructions on customs, because it can't come into force the next day. So please accept this bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the technical legal rights, especially the day of its introduction, which I have just stressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u106	Colleagues, I propose a vote. 2674: draft law on the basis and in general, with technical and legal rights declared by the head of the committee Nina Jujanina, including in the course of the entry into force of this law. We're concentrating, colleagues. I think a lot of people have been waiting for this law, and now they're going to express themselves by voting, your honorary colleagues. Please. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues. Cancellation from the customs office. We're taking our seats, colleagues, please. 2674 on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Head of the Southern Committee. Vote? Ready? Vote. 2674, we vote. [[17:50:48]] For-188. Colleagues, there's an offer to go back to this bill. Colleagues, let's go back, 2674, an additional customs congregation, import a bribe, to be exact. Colleagues, let's go back, 2674. I thought this was going to be the consolidated position of the entire room right now. 2674. Let's go back, fellows. To return. Let's go back, 2674. [[17:52:00]] For 216 It's better now, colleagues. Let's focus again. For the return of this law. The factions, please. Peter Poroshenko's Block – 100, People's Front – 27, Opposition Block – 20, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 12, Parenthood – 10, Rebirth Party – 4, Will of the People – 7 and non-fractional – 22. Colleagues, let's concentrate. I think if there's a question, we're going to go back and vote on it and prepare for the second reading then. Colleagues! Come on, take your seats. 2674, please support the return. What you're about to say is no more votes, let's vote. 2674 for the return. We're going back. To return. Well, vote. Don't vote. Don't vote. Please come back. [[17:53:12]] For a hundred and This is the choice of all political factions. Please. Yeah, it's a bad law. Please. Please: 98, 9, 19, 13, 12, 10, 10, 10, 10. Colleagues! Dear colleagues, one minute. Victor Halasyuk. Who are you making it worse? The Ukrainian people? Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u107	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I see that the bill does not receive the necessary support, and I want to inform my colleague that the committee has been introduced by the various factions of the bill 2553a, which repeals the additional import assembly from the adoption of the bill to all groups of goods used by Ukrainian producers as raw materials. It has a very focused action, it's prepared, it's been prepared for over a month with professional research institutes. I propose that if we are not able to adopt this bill as a whole right now, we immediately entrust the committee with the preparation of Bill 2553a and the adoption of it as soon as possible, because this is a real help to Ukrainian producers. I'm sure the whole room will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! Please, Anatoly Hirschfeld, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u109	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I want to say a few words about the motivation of this project. There are two models of economic protection. Commodity imports can be protected and the high-tech industry can be developed. By recording the import charge on raw materials, we are protecting our high-tech industry and our processing. We talked a lot today about different economic models when we talked about tech parks and so on. Therefore, I think it would be logical to remove the 5 per cent charge precisely from the supply of raw materials so that our reprocessing industry will earn money and we will increase our export potential, at least in some way protect our producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u110	This could be settled before the second reading of this law. Impossible? Okay. Please, Maxim Burbak. Colleagues, we've only got 15 minutes, 20 minutes left. I greatly appreciate your desire to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! I support our colleagues' proposal to consider a bill to reduce the import congregation for raw materials. Because in this case, this bill was not supported by the People's Front faction. Because the argument that 17 billion have already arrived, it's not working. Currently, local budgets are also being allocated from the state budget, and there is something to be filled out. And now there are no import congregations since January 1. Why now vote for a bill that is only populist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. I've heard the thoughts, you've expressed them in favor of the vote. 2674. One more minute, please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u113	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, well, this is an example of what they have chosen as a country's development strategy: high taxes, increased import duties, do everything you can to raise tariffs, and then put the population on subsidies, subsidies, subsidies, subsidies, and so survive as you like. This bill directly contradicts our GATT/SOT commitments. This bill directly contradicts the logic of industrial development in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this decision can only be made this week. So our faction supported, we saw who supported this bill and we still actually have three days left when we can work on it and bring it into the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u114	Thank you, Your Honor. Again, 2674 for the return. If he doesn't get the required number of votes, he'll be considered rejected. Please, 2674 in return, and we will proceed to vote for the military. Please, for the return of 2674, we vote. To return. [[17:58:10]] For 193 He didn't get the required number of votes, he's considered rejected. Dear colleagues. Look at the factions. Look, respectable colleagues, draft Law (registration number 3379), attention to the military. Draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (on protection of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel). First Deputy Minister of Defence, Rusnak Ivan Stepanovich, reports. There's an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, it's the salaries of the military. Everyone, please concentrate. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. [[17:58:57]] For 184 Please, very briefly, Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u115	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! With a view to balancing the budget assignments of the Ministry of Defence, the bill provides for amendments to Appendix 3 of the State budget for 2015 by reducing expenditure of 955 million under the Ministry of Defence programmes to ensure the activities of the Armed Forces, the development of military equipment, and the construction (acquisition) of housing. And at the expense of the funds noted, there is an increase in the fund for the payment of salaries to military personnel for participating in an anti-terrorist operation. The redistribution of the expenditure in question is carried out within the limits of the allocations foreseen for the Ministry of Defence in the 2015 budget and does not require additional financial costs. The need for such a redistribution is due to the fact that we have increased the formation of troops in the ATO zone from 37,000 to 73,000, as well as to an increase in the total number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to 259,000. The bill was considered at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? There's a position. Committee, please. Gorbunov Alexander Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee's Committee on Budget Affairs, literally say that for a minute. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. We need military support. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, the Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on November 12th, reviewed the government bill number 3379. As already noted by the reporter, the bill has been prepared for the purpose of providing financial security for the current year of the remuneration of military personnel for participating in the ATO. The government is proposing to redistribute expenditure between the budget programmes of the Ministry of Defence, resulting from their expected use by the end of the year. Thus, Bill 3379 does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources and does not affect the overall expenditure of the state budget, and the budgetary indicators are balanced. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus noted that the bill could be accepted as a basis and noted that there was no financial and economic justification; the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine did not object to the consideration of the bill, but cautioned about the reduction of expenditures on the development of arms and military technology. As a result of the development, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill under number 3379 to be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law, noting the need to clarify the budgetary indicators if other bills were to be adopted to make changes to the state budget, pending consideration of the bill. Then, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should a bill be adopted in the drafting of the relevant law, should provide the necessary editorial and technical clarifications relating to the committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. 3379 is the salary of the military. Colleagues, based on and in general, a signal vote, please support this bill – 3379. On the basis and in general. This is the support, the salaries of the military, within the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Let's have a signal vote, please support, colleagues, let's vote. On the basis and in general. It's a signal, it's an employee's salary. [[18:03:07]] For 224 Colleagues, there are voices. Please concentrate! Please back up, please back up! 3379: Draft Act amending the laws of the corresponding salaries of military personnel. Please take your seats to vote for the national MPs. Please vote on the basis and in general 3379. Please support, colleagues, members of the military, on the basis and in general. We vote, 3379, we vote. Please be supportive. [[18:03:54]] For 240 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Fellows, let's consult, we have 15 minutes left. I can resume the session for 15 minutes. Are you ready to consider the laws on electric cars? Let's vote whether you vote or support the proposal to continue the session for 15 minutes, please vote. If you support me, I'll continue my rights, I just want to understand if we have a successful vote? [[18:04:33]] For 212 I have the right to vote, and who will vote 212 deputies? There's a second reading, colleagues, that's the problem. Colleagues, look, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian Customs Tariff on Cancellation of Import Customs on Electric Vehicles. Is it a normal law? [[B in m in s a l in]] The second law, the second law is the same, about electric cars. Once again, dear fellows. So there's a question of woodworking equipment to regenerate industrial production. The same is true of making changes to the Customs Code. Once again, I'm putting a motion for a vote. Are you ready to work? Please vote. Ready to vote? If you are ready, testify your vote if you do not, we will consider it another day. [[18:05:50]] For 216 I don't think we should risk such laws. Dear colleagues, there will be no votes to vote, we will now overthrow the law, God forbid. Dear colleagues, I have. So we're going to move this block to the first part of the day, this block that's left over, we're going to look at what day, but we're going to vote that we voted these laws, that's important too. Thank you, colleagues. It's better to take a week off than to take them down now. And, colleagues, I have a statement to make, and I thank you that my colleagues have agreed to wait a little longer to announce it, because we have considered important laws, the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction to announce the statement that Egor Sobolev will make. Please, three minutes. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u119	I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the decision to appoint the First Deputy National Police Officer, Vasil Pascal. This is a decision sanctioned by the Minister of Internal Affairs and proposed by the new head of the National Police, to whom we have clapped here in the Supreme Council. It's actually a terrible decision, which is a big blow to the idea of creating a new police force. It's not here to explain who Pascal is. This is the man who served Janukovich with Zacharychenk, a man who performed a terrible task during Midan, headed by the Ministry of Criminal Investigation. We saw this man on the steps of the Supreme Council on August 31. Before the grenade exploded, Basil Pascal ordered the Nazis to throw back into the protestors of the checkers that had arrived. He set this conflict on fire. I believe, and on behalf of the Self-Help faction, we ask the entire Parliament to immediately call on the Minister of Internal Affairs to provide an explanation for the formation of this new police force, and to contact the chief of police, Hatya Dekonidé, of the need for an immediate annulment of this decision. There won't be a new police force with the spears. We have no right to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m1.u120	We'll see tomorrow, colleagues, day by day. And perhaps what we have not finished today, we will be able to consider and ensure a successful vote tomorrow, but that depends on the national MPs of Ukraine. I invite everyone to participate in tomorrow's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing. Colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine works in public space, openly, publicly in online broadcasting. Today's "The Council" is 17 years old. Let us welcome those who broadcast the meetings of the Supreme Council. Thank you, dear colleagues. At the end of the day. I think we did a good job today, dear colleagues. Thank you for your work, and I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council closed at night. We'll start the meeting tomorrow morning at 10 a.m.
