ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u1	I hope everyone is ashamed of the incident we had before lunch when there were not enough deputies in the hall. I'm convinced that a lunch break was used by the faction to make the most of the calls and to gather the Ukrainian national deputies and all those who came to the Supreme Council, I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for work. In fact, we have to start voting because we haven't finished our consideration of the state service. And so I'm very much asking the secretariat to tell the deputies that our work starts from minute to minute, and the deputies who hear me go into the hall and take their jobs. There have already been coalition leaders, I'm sure they'll be followed by columns of MPs. Please come in and take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u2	Good evening, dear fellows! We can continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we are not yet enough, please enter the hall, occupy jobs. We'll start our work in a minute. Come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, colleagues, please. Let's start the registration. Please register. I think we've just made our point. With factions, under the State Service Act, we'll take down all the questions that we have, what contradictions. But that these are global reforms, I think there's no doubt about it. Please. [[16:09:15]] 289 national deputies are in the hall. Please, colleagues. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Please take our seats, dear friends. Dear colleagues, there is an offer by the faction heads to express their position under the State Service Act on the basis of a minute from the factions. Please, Yuri Lewchenko from non-fractional, one and then from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u5	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Sadly, this law, despite tremendous changes to the public service, needs to be reformed, and revolutionary changes must be made. Sadly, this law does not even fit those needs. But what we're seeing right now in the hall, when unfortunately the coalition couldn't get enough votes to at least run this process, and at least between the first and second readings try to make some changes, well, we're frankly very surprised about that. We were approached by colleagues from the RDA, by other public activists who assured us that our rights regarding the formation of competitive commissions were allowed to be allowed there by all public organisations that dealt with disciplinary bodies in public authorities to be independent, and there was no conflict of interest that our rights would be taken into account in the second reading. So given that there's not enough in the room right now literally every vote, one or two votes, "Freedom" is ready to start the process in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u6	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block. Anatoly Matvienko concerning the Law on State Service
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the "Peter Prashenko Block" faction in relation to this law actually makes its proposals that this law should be seriously worked on in the second reading. There are a number of fundamental positions that we have discussed. I think the head of the State Service should comment on a number of these positions. And only what we ask, Vladimir Borisovich, is that we do not hurry, not under a reduced procedure, but that we have given the complete process of processing for the second reading. And on the condition that these proposals are taken into account, we will support them in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u8	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, it is evident that the reform of the government service in Ukraine has not merely matured, but has matured. Because an outdated bureaucratic apparatus is not always able to respond to the challenges facing the Ukrainian State today. On the other hand, there is such a thing as institutional memory. There are so many people in the state apparatus who have a unique experience for the country as to how the system works. It is important for us to reform today so that people can actually feel it, so that we can actually get an updated state apparatus. So this law needs to be approached very carefully, because there can't be such a position that the secretary of state cancels the minister's decision, because it's absurd, and on the other hand, the secretary of state should really be that chancellor, a professional bureaucrat. There are nuances that need to be clarified. That's why we support it in the first reading, but very seriously we need to work together to get the best in order to upgrade the public service, and yet the best traditions that are today, they stayed and worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u10	Thank you. That's exactly what's going to happen. We agreed to set up a joint working group, prepare for a second reading, and consider it a fine European law. Please, Igor Popov, Radical Party. Then Olena Scrum of the Fatherland and then Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the Radical Party is asking for the support of this law if we are really going to change the system of government in our country. This law will really bring us closer to European standards. This law, on the other hand, does not solve all problems, so it is not the only law that needs to be adopted to change the system of government. And literally after that, we're going to vote for another law, which we also have to adopt and also work on. I understand the reasons why many of the deputies do not vote or leave the hall. One of the deputies counts his career as a public servant in order to have a different pension. Someone's been locked up by consulting assistants in the office so they can't go to work because they're sure they're going to suffer the interest of consulting assistants. We're going to read a second reading of what we can fix, and we're going to fix what we can't fix in any case, and we're canceling out all the special benefits, including for government officials. Therefore, these questions will no longer be of principle. Please support, vote in the first reading and continue to work very carefully on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u12	Thank you. Olena Shkrum, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u13	Colleagues. Alona's Scrum, Fatherland's Party. My colleagues, I really want to thank those who took the time off, studied the issue and really supported the reform of the public service. We absolutely agree that the law is not 100 percent perfect and that is absolutely clear, nothing perfect is happening right now. We're ready to work it out. I just want to inform my colleagues once again who are concerned about reform of the public service, that the committee has decided to create a working group, where we have included all the experts, where we will definitely invite all the desirable people's deputies, where we will take every position very seriously. And I'm sure it opens up a new professional, quality and principal transparent government service in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. Please, colleagues, let's take our places to vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, there's not much to talk about. The law really changes a lot. And many people, 24 years of age, who have adapted to the government apparatus, are really going to get hurt. But this suffering is won by the state and the young not by age, but by the way of thinking, people will have a chance, it doesn't mean that it will happen automatically, it will be able to come to power in order not to associate with the destruction and loss of territory as in the last 24 years, but by the steady development of that state. It's hard to believe today, but if we do that, we'll have a chance at all. Therefore, dear colleagues, invite your colleagues to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can sum it up. I want to assure you. Your attention, please. Your attention, Your Honor. The law is prepared. Please listen carefully to your colleagues. Between how we started voting for him, and now, there's been a lot of mythical information that doesn't apply to this law. The new edition of the law that is given to you gives us the opportunity, between the first and the second readings, to prepare the most qualitative changes to this law, those who will meet our European Association will answer questions about the formation of quality and professional public service. I want to assure you that this law does not apply in any way to the national deputies of Ukraine, so there is no need for us not to come to the vote today, because it does not apply to the national MPs. Third position. This law we vote in the first reading and in full procedure we will be able to work with you to work together on this law for the second reading, and only in understanding can we approve it as a whole. And I would also like to point out that this law is fully in line with the Association Agreement of the European Union, which Ukraine has signed and ratified, is our full commitment. But we have to make it quality so that all critical issues are taken into account, which is what I invite you to do. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote now, please prepare for the vote, let's make a signal vote on the return and immediately vote on it as a basis, and continue to work on further laws. Do you have a deal? Please, colleagues, a signal vote under this law to return, please, colleagues. Please support me. [[16:20:03]] For 223 Almost, let's do it again, please, Capplin's not here yet, please. Let us concentrate, please, colleagues, please support this law in the first reading, friends, first reading, base, please support everyone, please vote. Yeah, based on the first reading, please, then we'll work it out, don't worry about it. Vote please, colleagues. [[16:20:51]] For 221 The card didn't work? Please, come on in, people's deputies. Comment by the head of the State Service, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u17	Dear national MPs, both during the drafting of the bill in the Cabinet of Ministers and after its introduction to Parliament, we continue to work actively with representatives of the public authorities and with the trade unions, with all interested parties. We see clearly the problems that we need to resolve before reading. I would like to assure you that in the course of your work, along with a group that is formed on the basis of a profile committee, we will find all the necessary compromises, and the assistants of the national MPs, and on some other issues that are of particular concern to everyone today, and I am sure that we will find them. And the bill is really worldview, it's really going to give us a new quality of government and public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u18	Colleagues, please do it again. Potential is in the hall, I see. Come on, colleagues. Ready to vote, my friends? Ready? Let's do the signal again. Keep it up, folks. We wait two minutes, we wait two minutes, come on. There are voices. Colleagues, let's vote again and I'd like to ask all my colleagues to support and vote on the basis, my friends, as a basis. Let's vote on the basis. Signal. [[16:23:02]] For 222 Four votes is not enough. 103, National Front - 54, Opoblok - 0, Radical - 14, Fatherland - 0, Rebirth - 0, Will of the People - 0, non-fractional - 13. I got it. Please, let's make offers, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u19	Dear Vladimir Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u20	Haven't you been able to vote? We didn't make it? Yes, we haven't been able to vote, colleagues on the People's Front. Let's do it again for the return, please. Colleagues from the People's Front have not been able to vote on the basis, please, of course, of the People's Front. Let's go back, focus, please. Let's base it again, for the return, for the return, fellows! Please return, colleagues. Signal. [[16:24:36]] For 227 Yes, the glory of Ukraine! Friends, now on the basis of this, I ask you all to vote, colleagues, on the basis of this, to work on the second reading. I'll bet the vote on the basis. We'll all work together, please, colleagues, please vote for the basis. There are voices, please, we vote friends, we work together. [[16:25:06]] For 224 Lavrick, we're all set! I'm betting on the vote, my honorary colleagues, the bill on the basis of 24,90. Back to 2490, I'm betting on the vote, National MP Lavrick didn't vote. Are you guys focused? Please support once again, let's vote, vote friends for the return, please support. [[16:25:50]] For 226 We're back. Let's do the factions. Are you ready to vote on the basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u21	Friends, please concentrate, please, once again, an extremely important law. Vote on the ground, please. There are already votes to vote on the basis. Please. [[16:26:31]] For 226 And now to all skeptics, I want to say this: Dear friends, I thank all the deputies who have supported this law. It is, in fact, extremely important. All the questions that scared you here, we'll work things out and everything will be done right. So that a normal professional public service could be established in Ukraine. But I think we've seen who didn't vote for this reform. Let's take another look at the factions: Peter Poshenko's Block – 106, People's Front – 54, Oblok – 0, Self-help – 27, Radical Party – 13, Fatherhood – 13, Rebirth – 0 (no public service), Will – 0 and non-fractional – 13. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. I thank you very much. We have taken a very good and faithful step, and we will continue to work things out with you. The next question comes to your attention, colleagues, the derivative. I don't think there's going to be any discussion on this -- it's the draft Law on Service in Local Self-Government, too, in a new edition. 2489 is the proposal of the public service to vote on the basis of a reduced procedure. Attention! As for the reduced procedure. [[16:28:15.]] For 168 Thank you. Please, Constantine Vashchenko. Let us listen carefully so that there are no differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u22	Dear National Deputies! Well, I can't hold back, first of all, not to thank you for your support and to assure you once again that we're going to adopt the right law. With regard to Law 2489, regarding the service of local self - government, he, along with the previously voted law, must create a single new system of public service in Ukraine. So first and foremost, these two laws will be harmonized with each other. First of all, it means that in general matters of service in local governments, the same approaches will be applied as in public authorities. In particular, it is the appointment of a service manager in a local self - government body on the basis of competitive selection, the formation of a similar model of pay, the same system of motivation and responsibility of officials. So we're talking about the harmonization of the service, while preserving guarantees of independence and independence in the local government. The following should therefore be noted among the features of Law 2489: The possibility of a civil servant being appointed to a local self-government without competitive selection if he performs the same functions as in the process of decentralization. The specifics of the election posts are taken into account. Salary schemes – pay attention! – local self-government officials will be defined not by Kabmin, but by local councils, which will allow the development of areas to form appropriate wages for local self-government officials. These include additional incentives for officials to achieve the success of the socio-economic development of the territorial community. You hire investors, you work better, you pay more. The bill is prepared in cooperation with and supported by the All - Ukrainian Associations of Local Self - Rule. So, honourable national MPs, I would ask you to support this bill as a basis, then both, and 2490 and 2489 will simultaneously work and go out on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, Alona Shkrum, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u24	Colleagues! Alona's Scrum, the Fatherland faction, the head of the public service subcommittee. It's very simple here. In fact, this bill is an integral part of the reform of the public service. It's impossible to divide these two bills, so I'm also asking you to support this bill. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government considered it at its April 22th meeting and decided to adopt the bill as a basis for consideration in the first reading. And again, we understand that he is not perfect, he has been given a lot of observations by scientific and expert management, most of which were discussed at our committee meeting, including with regard to the non-conformity of terminology, as you know, in the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities, which is explained by what he has done in fact to this law, and the terminology we will necessarily agree with you in the second reading; and with regard to the conclusion of the General Expert Office, which made a note of the proposed approach to the definition of the rules for the conduct of service in the local self-government bodies of executive authorities. There is a small situation that is not in line with the European Charter of Local Self - Rule. Again, I hope that the second reading will be further developed. In general, I would like to support the committee’s conclusion and support this bill as an integral part of the overall reform of the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u25	Thank you, colleagues. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, distinguished national MPs, National MP Matvienko. Kodola, People's Front. Please, Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u26	Alexander Kodol, People's Front. Please pass the word to Oleni Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u27	Helen Boyko, People's Front. Thank you to all who have supported the Law on State Service, this is very important to us. Understand one thing: You cannot reform without reforming the public service itself. The Law on Service in Local Self-Government is also important. We must first find those talented and professional people who will be able to carry out reforms and then the success of reforms is guaranteed. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u28	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, really with the signing of the Association Agreement, we have to bring our legislation into line with European norms and order. There are many skeptics who claim that this law is not necessary, it would be helpful to pass one law on public authority, to include both government and the service of local authorities. And I think that such criticism is not groundless, but it is a precedent right. We already have the State Service Act and we have the Service in Local Self-Government Act. So obviously by this logic, we need to work out the law that is being introduced today. I think that the basis of this law is quite well-qualified, although the observation of scientific expertise is also correct. We really need to reconcile this with the Charter on Local Self-Government and really have to reconcile it with the Law on the Unification of Territorial Communities. But I think we can do this in the second reading, so I would propose to vote this law in the first reading and in the same way as we agreed under the State Service Act, to create an appropriate commission and to work it out in full mode, and to put the session under review for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u30	Thank you. And that's the logic that we have to work on and redefine every article the questions that are going to create a normal system. Paul Kishkar, please, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u31	"self-help," of course, thanks both Mr. Vashchenkova and those people who were involved in the development of those two unique bills. Of course, we have to take into account the correct comments that the Chief Scientific Expert makes. I was consulted on these two laws by Churchman Alexander Ivanovich, and I think you know him personally. And we just have such a personal interesting question, why don't we unify these two laws in the Public Service Code and why it's not done right now, and it's going to be there, and I understand that for many years in advance, we're going to put this plan in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u32	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u33	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, I remember the time of spring when we worked on these bills, working in associations, in local governments. I know that associations really support, that little is supported by practices -- measures, measures of small cities, rural, rural heads, they really fit the European Charter of Local Self-Government. But there are two things that really bother me. And I'd like us to work between the first and the second readings. Part three of article 7 says that "monitoring the enforcement of local self-government legislation will be carried out by public authorities." This is unacceptable when government authorities interfere with local self - government. And the second. The head of the public service said that the head of the apparatus would be chosen on competitive grounds. I would like to point out that all the appointments of deputy mayors, vice-presidents, in measures of small cities, in large cities, in villages and villages were held on competitive grounds, so that we would actually mention this in the Service Act in the local self-government authorities, actually did, because we have a head of equipment to choose on competitive principles, and others would be appointed political. We need them to be professionals in the local self-government bodies that will be involved in local farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u34	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Then there's Igor Nasalik, the block of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u35	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. You know, voting for the State Service Act in the first reading, which has been going through several times, shows the real situation in the hall, and it's too bad that even though we have a formal 300-vote coalition, we can't really get 226 votes. And you know, unfortunately, that's why we come from the same situation in this bill on public service in local self-government. There are also colossal downsides that I think are creating the wrong approach, the approach in this law, particularly the system of entering into the service of local self-government. It is envisaged that a competition for vacant positions will be conducted by a competitive commission formed by the director of the service of the relevant body. And this is where each body will have a separate competition commission. This is under the terms of some 11,000 622 competition commissions. Well, obviously that's bullshit. And these things have to be cleaned between the first and the second readings. And I encourage my colleagues to work well for the second reading. But I can see that because you obviously don't have enough votes, well, there's no other choice but to support you in this regard, to at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u36	Every level of power, respectable colleagues, just like that, one executive body. One executive body. Please, Igor Nasalik, and please invite MPs to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u37	Dear friends, in this bill, which the Chief Service is offering us, I have not seen innovation in large numbers, because long ago the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not determine the structure of local self-government, the structure of local government determines the city council within the limits of its powers. Other than that, it's going to cost extra money. Yes, the additional funds are long ago and they are also determined by the possibilities of local self-government budgets. On the other hand, I want to support Ivchenk, who said that we can't put the State Service in charge of local self-government. But definitely against Yvchenk, that the viceroys of the city should be chosen on a competitive basis. I've already had a competitive election practice, and I ran it exactly three months later. The city’s development situation determines the city’s head and chooses its own command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u38	The elected city chief by general election? Thank you. Colleagues, Igor Popov, please, the Radical Party. And we'll vote. Before that, I'll give Vashchenko the floor to the head of the service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are now conducting a decentralization of government. And literally within a few weeks, the Constitutional Commission, headed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, will provide us with specific proposals that will strengthen the authority of local self-government authorities. And accordingly, it will increase the workload and responsibility of officials in local self - government. That is why this law is very important for adoption. Why is it necessary, especially now, that we cannot postpone it further. Systematic reform of government provides for very serious regulatory provisions. And it's been working for months now on the basis of the Nazdrzeżba working group, which is preparing draft legislation that needs to be adopted so that all of this will work after we vote in the second reading. I mean, even to government officials. The Supreme Council is well aware that you need to raise your salary. At present, however, there are no funds in the country for a single - moment rapid increase. That is why these laws provide for a gradual increase in the cost of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u40	Please, Constantine Vashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that once decentralization of powers, finance, competences are transferred to the local level, the quality of the officials who are able and able to perform these functions is extremely important. Therefore, the requirement to pass this law is a requirement of time. I would like to point out that when we work on the second reading, we, considering that many of the rules are identical in two laws, we work together in such a way that the Service Act in the local self-government will govern only the characteristics. And as for the question of introduction, of going through other things, we're going to do it by means of reference to the Civil Service Act. So we agreed, and so I think we're going to have this code of the only public service in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've heard your position. Again, it is a related law that applies to local self - government. But once again, I want to emphasize that this is the new government edition. He also worked with a professional circle of experts and associations of local governments. And when we take it to the parliament, it gives us the opportunity to work on it in a way that suits the interests of local self-government and the general decentralization of power. So I would also ask him to support this bill, his colleagues and prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote of the national MPs, please prepare for the vote, please prepare for the vote, this is the Law on Local Self-Government, and please support it as well. The draft Law 2489, draft Law on the Service of Local Self - Government Authorities (new edition), is being submitted to your vote. The new edition allows us to work closely on it and there is a proposal for a profile committee to take it as a basis. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? You've heard that representatives of local self-government have seen, more specifically, their positions, which are now representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament to support this bill. Vote, colleagues? Please support me on a base (2489), please support me, my friends, please support me, it's for local self-government, it's true. [[16:44:31]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you! Better yet, we'll work together, thank you, dear colleagues! 2143, the author postpones the discussion. Dear colleagues! Draft Military Police Act (1882). Report to the People's Deputy King. Please have the author's offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, determine whether the law is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. [[16:45:28]] For-167 Thank you, fellows of honor! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u43	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Military Police Act (registration number 1882), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies by Palamarczuk and the King. The purpose of this bill is to establish the legal framework for the activities of the law enforcement authority, which takes steps to ensure the detection, cessation and pretrial investigation of crimes against the established order of military service. Today’s realities show that discipline is an integral part of the success of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The basis for this project is a coalition agreement signed on 21.11.2014 by representatives of the members of the parliamentary groups and factions of the Supreme Council. The draft Military Police Act also provides for changes to the criminal, to the operational and search activities of the disciplinary law and other legislative acts, if this law is adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law and this is, in principle, the limitation of the article of the Criminal Code, which relates only to the investigation of cases of war crimes. In the very text of the law, listen to me, no one has the right to use the police, the military police in other matters, but to investigate crimes involving military personnel and related actions. Moreover, honourable national deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u44	Thank you. Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u45	Law enforcement. I mean, there's no "snatched," there's nothing. I ask you to support this bill because it is necessary to increase the strength of our army. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u47	Andrew Kožemiakin, Andriy Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u48	Dear presiding officers! Dear colleagues! Indeed, everything that my colleague and distinguished General King Viktor Mikolaiovich have said has been prepared, along with another distinguished General Palamarczuk, for the commission of the faction and for the execution of the coalition agreement. In fact, there are a lot of questions and claims from factions today, but I want to say the following. Dear colleagues, first of all, it's a bill, really, it's clearly stated in a coalition agreement, once. Secondly, this bill clearly corrects the mistakes made by the coalition and the Janukovich coalition, which was here in the Supreme Council, which, in adopting the Criminal Procedure Code in 2012, did not allow the service that is now under military law in Ukraine to have the function of pretrial investigation, i.e. completely disenfranchised it. Why? Because there was such a Mr. Salamatin, the head of the Ministry of Defense, who probably asked Yanukovich and the faction not to vote in order to steal and destroy the entire property of the Ministry of Defense. In fact, not one crime was investigated normally in the military system. So the damage was done. This bill is therefore designed to justify and remedy this situation. And, indeed, he has the right to life, but unfortunately, I do understand that there are no votes, the committee nevertheless determined, he suggested in the first reading that the bill should be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, from the Taras Defense Committee. Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! The bill was also discussed yesterday at the National Security and Defence Committee. Indeed, there is a very good intention to give, as has already been said, the service, the military service of the law enforcement of the pretrial investigation that was previously taken away from it, but in what way do we go to it. This bill had already been submitted by the authors before, and it was discussed on our committee, and the Supreme Council was not supported, in general, by the introduction of the agenda. After that, the authors made a similar bill, only the previous one had military police, and now it's military police, and they haven't even been able to clean up enough, which is the very concept that contradicts each other. In the previous bill, which is in force today on the military service of law and order, there is a limit of one and a half percent of the military force. The bill states that not less, but more needs to be done, but that's not the point, it's the military law enforcement that's on the front today. The bill will be eliminated three months later, and the police service that will carry out these duties will be formed by the military police only three months from now. So all this time they're assigning a leader, a state, funding, a front and an army, there's not going to be any military that can provide law and order between military personnel, protect parts and so on. So the proposal from our committee, we're ready, together with the authors, to develop amendments to the existing service in order not to disrupt its work today, and to give it the opportunity that Janukovic once took, to give it back to her so that she can fully cope with these powers. So I'm asking everyone today not to support this bill, but to reject it, along with the authors, are ready to give these functions to the existing service, and we can't do that during the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u51	Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u52	Dear friends, no doubt we, as the Supreme Council, have in a matter of months passed very many laws that applied to the body. the security and defence sector. No doubt we have already adopted many laws in this room that raise discipline in the army. It's a colossal problem that we shouldn't hide our heads in the sand and settle. That's one side of the coin. There's another side to the medal. This bill introduces some innovations. For example, the law enforcement structure will be within the Ministry of Defence, but its jurisdiction extends to all other military formations. And law enforcement. This will clearly lead to conflicts between different weapons formations. We can't let that happen, it's the principle position of the committee and our faction. The second point in this bill is, for example, that corruption crimes will be investigated by the military police and corruption in the Ministry of Defence. This is also a moment, and we point out that the list of articles that are given to this militia is clearly defined. And the third point we're paying attention to is to make it clear on the basis of military service, military law and order. That's why, given that this bill is drafted as part of a coalition agreement, that we as a coalition have to carry out our obligations to our electorate and as legislators, we as a faction support it in the first reading with these warnings, the work that I've heard. This is the principle of our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u53	Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u54	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Please give the word to Melnichuk Ivan. Melniczuk Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u55	Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, well, the adoption of this law, in my opinion, is once again the craziest cost of the budget. My personal opinion is: I firmly oppose the adoption of this law. Explain why. We're trying to minimize the number of public authorities, and there's an extra proposal to create. It's even more confusing than that. We need to first reform the militia we have. Maybe there's a military unit in it. And on the other hand, we have to have a police force so that in any situation it's active and properly performing its functions, even in military time. People blame us for not finding the funds to raise our wages. People tell us that we can't find funds to raise pensions. We're creating an extra militia right now, and we haven't figured out what we have yet. And here we're creating an army. In the extreme case, we have the Military Attorney's Office at this time, give her additional authority, let her do it. That's my personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u57	Thank you. Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, I'm going to clarify the situation a little bit, just so we don't go down to the wrong professional level. And I'm going to answer to a colleague who's just been speaking to each other. I am grateful to Mr. Pashinsky that he truly appreciates the situation. Nothing needs to be created, no extra funding needs to be allocated. We have a military order today, a service, it's created, and it's based on it. Mr. Taras said it was supposed to work. It's not working! Today, the investigation, the investigation of all military crimes, is a police conduct. But they do not want to go to the ATO zone, to go there, to fight, to show that where there is damage, who goes into captivity, who goes right and who goes wrong. Because we need to go first and see if we can serve on the ship to investigate a ship’s violation of the rules. you know, driving or flying, or you know what we have here is an article in the Criminal Code on desertion, hearing and listening, and promoting. It can only be a military man, both a law-enforcement officer and a military officer, not an IMF co-worker, that's what this law makes sense. Do you understand? And the other thing I want to say is once again, Janukovich was just saying, as you say, you don't have to go to the Ministry of Defense with a prior investigation, because they were afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Antonishtak, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u60	Dear friends, I'd like to support this bill because it's already on time and it's been a long time. I want to give you an example. I'm talking to the Self-Help representatives. Listen to me, please. I'm a representative of the Kulčicki Battalion, and I remember when we had some tragic events, and my fighters had an accident, so it was investigated by ordinary militias who were previously based in Donetsk and who were transferred to Mariupol. And you can imagine what they were investigating. So I ask you very much to support this bill. In fact, the bill does not entail additional material costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u61	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u62	You know, we have, in fact, the military service of law and order exists in reality. It really needs to be reformed and investigated. If we return to the GSP for investigation, this race mentioned by Mr. Kožemyakin will be obscured in fact and will be consistent. Between. Yes, and everything will be, and everything will be. I think this reform should begin with the reform of the military rule of law service. SWAT is two, three hours away, and reforming and empowering the GSP is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u63	Thank you, Andriy Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that thanks to the authors who have really studied the experience of all European countries. All European countries, including not just in Europe, but in the world, are really all over the world with such military militias. Everywhere this experience is used in any kind of, God forbid, fighting. I mean, I think that the adoption of this bill in the first reading, well, let's say, we're going to work and we're going to cut the deadline, so we're not going to do it for three months, but we're going to do it for a month after the bill goes into effect so it's already working, and that's it. They don't want to go to the ATO area of investigators and operatives who have to work with the agency, you know. And they do not reveal the crimes that are at fault today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u65	Thank you. I think we can vote, dear fellow national MPs. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the deputies to the hall. All the positions of committees and authors were heard. 1882, draft Military Police Act. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. Please, I'm putting a motion to the vote, a committee decision in 1882 as a basis. I'd like to make a decision about the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:02:27]] For 186 The author, the King, was unable to vote in favour of his law. All right, colleagues, back to this law. The author was unable to vote, please. But, colleagues, I'd like you to concentrate, we still have a lot of laws. Let's go back to 1882. On the way back to this project. [[17:03:00]] For 193 Thank you. The law is not adopted. Come on, please. 2590. 2590. Ah, there's a statement by two factions, colleagues, Oleg Lachka, the Radical Party and Self-Help. Three minutes to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an extraordinary situation. As soon as the colleagues of our faction, the "Fatherland" faction was found to be false and false in the vote of Law No. 1694. We voted on two amendments that were not considered on the committee and were not voted on, and we knew nothing about it. There is a decision made by the Self-Help faction entirely by the entire faction to withdraw its votes under Law 1694. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council to appoint a service investigation into the falsification of documents and false information that has been submitted to the voting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u67	Thank you. The instrument of commission. This is news to me. It's a tool for handling this information and information. We'll figure it out and we'll figure it out. Come on, fellows, let's go day by day. Draft regulation 2590 amending the calendar plan. Please have a suggestion to consider it in a simplified procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[17:05:03]] For-188. Please, Paul Pinzenik, announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u68	The Honourable Chairman of the National People’s Deputies, the Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on April 8, 2015, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call made by the national deputies of Ukraine Nasalik, Derevyanka, registered 2590 from 7.04. In 2015. The initiators propose to make changes to the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation of the work on committees, commissions, factions, and groups from May 5 to 8. Weeks 12 to 15 May, May 12th, Conciliation Council and Plenary Meetings, May 13th, Plenary Meetings, Committees, Commissions, factions and Groups, May 14th, Plenary Meetings, May 15th, Question Hour to the Government, Plenary Meeting. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft regulation (register No. 2590) and determine how to vote. I would also like to take into account the proposal made at the coalition council meeting and to anticipate the holding of the May 8, 2015 summit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazism in Europe, the Day of Memory and Reconciliation, the Day of Victory. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u69	Please, colleagues, what are the suggestions? Vote? Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Come in, please. Ready to vote? All right, shall we vote? Please have a draft Resolution on the Calendar Plan (Registration No. 2590), which was submitted by the committee’s first deputy. Please have a committee proposal, a standing on the basis and in general, please identify yourself, colleagues, on the basis and in general, on the basis and in general. [[17:08:30.]] For 199 No decision taken, my dear fellows. By factions, please, this is a decision on a calendar plan just reported by Paul Pinzenik. Everyone understands, as far as I can tell, 2590 rulings. Igor Nasalik, author, please. Igor Nasalik, a minute, will explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u70	Dear friends, dear colleagues, the chairman, above all, I would say that no plenary meeting is going on in our room unless we criticize or criticize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry and the Office of the Office of the Secretary-General. At times, though, we need to criticize ourselves. Today’s plenary session showed how ready we are to vote in the hall at all. If there are no more than 200 deputies for lunch today, I apologize. Is this our responsibility or not? But that is not the only reason. I want to give you committee work figures today, because each of the deputies is the basis of the legislative initiative. So I have to tell you that during this period, MPs have registered 1,000 547 bills, 80 percent of them never before considered on committees, 80 percent of the bills. We have leaders in general, I call them "black holes," where bills go in and they don't go out. For example, there are committees where there are only two out of 64 bills, where there are only four out of 55, out of 130 and twenty-two out of 214, thirteen out of 42. Yeah, I won't call it, if you like, in the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u71	Let me finish, please. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u72	30 seconds. The five committees are only in the Supreme Council, which have considered 50 percent of the bills and above, and this is Ira Heratchenko, where percent is the fuel and energy committee, where Kola Martinenko is the environmental committee where Tomenko is. Not surprisingly, where there is no committee head, it is meant to be regular, he was working on this, Trelyakow, social worker. What about the rest of you, reverends?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u73	All right, let's get this over with. Colleagues, let's not comment. The calendar plan has been introduced, further clarification to work on the committee situation. Please take your seats, we're voting 2590. Please. 2590 for return, ready? 2590 for the return. Colleagues, please, this is an organizational decision, you don't need to go back, right? Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please vote 2590, colleagues, organizational issue. 2590, please. [[17:12:28]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Colleagues, you can't vote, you can't vote. The author failed to vote, do we vote again? All of you, for the last time, please be in agreement if you wish to vote. 2590, please, colleagues, organizational issue. On the basis and in general, 2590, please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:13:18]] For 211 There are no votes in the room, I see. 211, colleagues. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Dear colleagues! In view of the discovery in the text of the Law of Ukraine, Law 2558, a professional committee agreed to consider these inconsistencies. And the leaders of the coalition agreed to introduce rights in part 131 of article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Elimination of Differences and Inaccuracies — to correct inaccuracies in the law signed by the leaders of five factions. Please concentrate, colleagues. Appropriately, there was a meeting of the profile committee held by Ruslan Knazevitch and the generalization of these inaccuracies and contradictions that were in this law number 2558. Now in line with 131 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote the correction of these inaccuracies in a committee signed by the heads of the five factions of the coalition. Please support disagreements, correction of disagreements. Ready to vote? Yeah, it's technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Signed by all faction leaders, all signed. [[17:15:07]] For 222 I see we haven't made it. Please prepare for the vote? We're ready. This question does not need to be included in the agenda. Please don't need to get into the agenda, you don't have to go back. Please, colleagues, let's take all the steps we can take to support these changes, technical and legal remedies. Let's vote, colleagues. In line with the 131st article of the Supreme Council Rules. Please, let's vote on the decision of the committee, which is set up by the leaders of all factions. [[17:16:02]] For 233 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Oleg. There is an offer to return to the calendar plan. Is that what I'm saying? Colleagues, I can make this offer, 2590. Colleagues, prepare for the vote, 2590, on the calendar plan. 2590 on the basis of the calendar plan as a whole. Please, calm down, please! Quiet! Prepare, 2590, for the calendar. Please, 2590, organizational chart. The plan, the calendar of our work as reported by Paul Pinzenik. Let's vote on the basis and in general, 2590. [[17:17:57]] For 215 215 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, if you ask, I'll come back, but later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down, colleagues. Please, 1861 draft law. An extremely important law: on transfer pricing. 1861. Please, the people's representative of Ostrikav. There is a proposal for a national MP to consider a reduced procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. For a short-term procedure! Transfer pricing. [[17:19:06]] For-179 Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u74	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Bill No. 1861, which refers to the amendment to Article 39 and to a number of other articles of the Tax Code concerning the settlement of those errors that were made by us in the vote of the Act on December 28. The law was passed quickly, with amendments to the vote. And I want to remind you that you and I have ruled out the transfer pricing of the value added tax and its extension to internal resident operations. This is entirely in line with European practice, because in Germany, Belgium, countries of Eastern Europe, transfer pricing is not applied to domestic transactions, and in some other countries Europe applies only to income taxes, does not apply to value added taxes. At the same time, you and I have not ruled out a reference to the 39th article of the Tax Code from other articles of the Tax Code, particularly 188, 198 articles on value added tax. So today there's an unregulated situation, and I'm reading to you today that there's an explanation of the Tax Office, which is available in the Information and Reference Resources of the State Fiscal Service, that in 2015 the Transfer Prices Regulations extend their operation to both the Income Tax and the Value Added Tax. Tax payers don't really know how to apply them or see them in the 39th article, or still look at the clarification of the State Fiscal Service. So we need you to correct those technical errors that were made in the December 28th vote. In addition, it is suggested to review the scope of the controlled operation, since today it is 20 million dollars and 1 million dollars. We have to understand that 1 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u75	Please let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u76	1 million dollars, this is a very small operation today, and we should be thinking with you about small and medium-sized businesses that just don't have the physical ability to prepare a transfer report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u77	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u78	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u79	15.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u80	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u81	20?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u82	One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u83	20 seconds, Ostrikak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u84	Therefore, it is suggested that these errors be corrected and that the volume be increased, rather than increased, but rather that this is applied to operations of 20 million in one counterparty. There is also a need to settle the situation with fines. Because to date, 100 minimum rates have been set for the failure to report on transport pricing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u85	Please 10 more, but really finish, because we're going to be looking forever. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u86	And the non-inclusion fine is 5 percent of the transaction amount. Hence, taxpayers simply do not report consciously from.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u87	Thank you for the report. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nasirov Roman Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u88	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, let me inform you of the position of the Tax and Customs Committee on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for transfer pricing) (registration No. 1861). The bill proposes to clarify certain rules on the regulation of transfer pricing in Ukraine. The contents of these changes are presented by the author of the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded with a number of observations and proposed a balanced decision on the bill to obtain an appropriate expert opinion from the government. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support this bill and makes some observations. But in support of the whole purpose of the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies, the committee did not support the authors ’ proposal to increase from 20 percent and up to 50 percent of the share of corporate rights of each person, the next legal person in the chain in determining the criteria for the connection of individuals, and suggested that the second reading of the bill exclude the stated position. In addition, it was suggested that other provisions should be developed for controlled transactions and fines should be applied. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, can you please tell me if there is a need for discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u90	I see only one person who raised her hand. So let's give Yuri Lewchenk a minute and then we'll go to the vote. Please, 2 people, and sold. In a minute, if you don't mind. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. Lately, you know, you can always hear from the government, from the coalition that there's no money in the social budget, the pension index, the minimum wage index, the benefits, there's no money in the budget. Instead, things like the transfer pricing of formation and any use of so-called offshore or offshore schemes, so simple that everyone understands, they pretty much drive this money that had the budget out of Ukraine. And what do we see in this bill? Instead of intensifying financial withdrawals through transfer pricing, we see relief, increasing from 5 million to 20 million controlled operations, increasing the number of persons from 20 percent to 50 percent, reducing nondeclaration fines, and reducing the amount of controlled household transactions. So this is where all these moments create artificial technical conditions to avoid transfer pricing legislation. Thus, such things cannot be supported in a country that is warring and in a country where every penny is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri. Please, Oksana Prodan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill because it actually helps business and introduces normal standards for transfer pricing. But I'm speaking to the chairman and please, Mr. Andrey, put in a signal vote. It may be that there are no voices in the hall so that we do not fail, indeed, a very important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u94	Thank you. We agreed on all these bills that you talked about in the first place. Is there really an urgent need, Mr. John? If there is an urgent need, please turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, John Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. I want to remind you a little bit of history of how this law was adopted in the past. When the temperature in society had reached the climax, only then could the authorities prepare a bill worth 18 billion. After the droughts, the quakes, and so forth, were knocked down to a few hundred million and then postponed. So they're half-breeds. In this year's budget there are no income articles at all on transfer pricing. The law is necessary, we understand. But, my friends, you can't put a fine equal to five thousand dollars. Offshore exports, that's what farmers are doing. Billionaires are exported to the offshore. He paid the ransom of five thousand dollars at the maximum, and keep breaking the law. We can't support this norm. If we remove this norm and set the dragon's norm, then we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u96	Thank you. Let's just take another minute, but really one minute, please, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this law was passed along with a package of budget laws. And the prime minister under the transcript, when he announced this law, talked about that we should adopt a law that would remove any manipulation and talk about what it would be like to be the world markets when we talk about taxation. Unfortunately, the words "world markets" came out, and today the drafters propose to make changes to the same paragraph, according to which the words "world markets" are not as absent, namely that the list of goods that have marketed and commodity markets for each group of goods is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is no reference to the world’s markets, for it is the export of goods and it is the cating of the world’s markets. This will allow us to avoid manipulation by using not real prices, but prices in the internal market, so please take this into account. And we believe that without such a change, this bill cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u98	Thank you, colleagues! There was a proposal by the author of the bill to make a signal vote, or a room to support it. Let's make the signal. You want factions? Please, Oleg the Faction Light. Then there's Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of this bill, this bill is another one that allows for the deligarchisation of the Ukrainian economy. I want to remind you that it was at the initiative of the Radical Party faction at the Colomaic oligarch that they took the state's Skrnaft, and I hope that they won't give it back to the oligar. It was at the initiative of the Radical Party faction at the oligar Firtas that they took away the hoaxes, the state distribution networks, and I hope that they will be returned to state property, not returned to the oligar. The Transfer Price Act provides an opportunity to stop robbing the country with oligarchs. So the Radical Party faction will vote. The one who does not vote supports the oligarchs, the one who sits on the salary of the oligarchs, the one who robs the Ukrainian people, so we all vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u100	Please, National Deputy, Nina Petrovna, Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that this bill does not make any radical changes in terms of mitigating transfer pricing. On the contrary, you just talked about fines, that's fines, that's for not reporting. How can a taxpayer now file a report containing 2 million items, 2 million? Two thousand and 500 payers have submitted such huge reports. So raising the bounds of a controlled operation from a million to twenty is an essential condition that can be performed by payers who are subject to transfer pricing control. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to uphold this law as a basis. And I think that's a perfectly normal offer. So let's now give a signal vote on the possibility of taking it as a basis and then we'll be determined on the final vote. And all the comments that we've made, we're working on, but that's an important law, my friends. On the basis of the base, the signal vote is based. I'm asking you to back me up. Who's willing to vote for him. Please identify yourself. [[17:31:37]] For 223 I think there are voices? There are voices, who hasn't made it? There's someone who didn't make it, I see. Please, colleagues, concentrate on the bill's registration number 1861. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Transfer Prices. Please have a proposal to vote it on the basis, Your Honor, please vote on the basis, please support it on the basis. Based on the base. On the basis of that, we will continue to work out what will be necessary. [[17:32:21]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Entering the calendar plan again? Please (2590) (2590) is a calendar plan. [[B in m in s a l in]] Five, six, seven committee jobs. 6 parliamentary hearings, 8 special sessions on Victory Day, please (2590), changes to the calendar plan, please vote. [[17:33:16]] For 208 Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on. 1910. There's a nice offer in Laszka. It's the third time. I won't bet. Please, registration number 1910 on the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance (for settlement of the jewelry congregation). Please, Oksana Sold. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. With regard to the vote in favour of the reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[17:34:00]] For-164 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, in your consideration of the very interesting bill, I know that this field is loved by everyone. It's about making jewelry. When you and I voted in favour of the Tax Code and social insurance, which began in effect on January 1, we changed the collection from jewelry to the Pension Fund. And since January 1st, jewelry manufacturers have stopped filing their products because they don't have the ability to do it. Since January 1, a standard has been introduced when a retirement benefit from jewelry is to be paid, not when it is made, but when it is placed on trust. So what was introduced? The congregation is paid, not for all its value, but only for gold. If there is any precious stone, any work before that gold, it is not believed. And so a large percentage is paid, but only for a small amount, at a small cost of production. That's one part. And there's another part: so far there's no order in which to put jewelry on the line, and so all the manufacturers are dependent, today they can't believe and they can't produce anything new, so. The bill proposes to reverse the situation with regard to when the congregation at the Pension Fund is being implemented. Thus, the congregation is making a much greater amount of the sum that corresponds to the full value of the jewelry, and thus, this congregation will pay at each stage with the realisation of the jewelry. And easier administration, and all taxpayers will pay. We agreed to determine the congregation’s rate on the committee between the first and the second readings. So I ask you all to support in the first reading, this bill, to run.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u104	Thank you so much for your time and report. And please invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna, from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, the Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Committee, discussed the bill at its meeting on March 18th, and considering that the implementation of the bill would allow for the introduction of a balanced burden from paying the congregation to compulsory state pension insurance in the course of transactions with jewelry products made from precious metals, stones, and all operators involved in the jewelry market; expanding the tax facility; and increasing the number of payers in the congregation. The committee decided to support such an initiative. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also supports the legislative proposal. And with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption, the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. We propose to adopt this bill as a basis, and then we will work with the authors before the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u106	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let us consult: Is there a need for discussion, or can we put to the vote? Ready to put it to the vote. I think there's enough potential in the room to vote, because there are no votes against, and the issue has been agreed on by the Coalition Council. So I'm asking everyone who's not near their jobs to get as close to them as possible, to go into the halls that are in the towers. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" (No. 1910) as a basis. People's deputies, please support. We're voting on the basis. Please vote. [[17:38:40]] For 208 I see the MPs haven't all been able to approach, even the head of the Self-Help faction has failed. I very much ask the MPs to take up jobs so that we can have a successful vote. Please step away from important matters for one minute and take part in the vote. This bill is one of the most important bills and is agreed upon. And yesterday, we were late, we were sitting until midnight, and we were agreeing on these bills. I am very much asking that we are now able to vote in favour of the return to the vote. Mr. Yuri! Penny Yuri Lucenko, I would like to set an example for the faction and vote for one minute, as it might be. The people of Ukraine will be grateful for this act. I ask you to prepare for the vote and we vote in favour of returning to the vote in favour of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Assembly for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, No. 1910. Please vote for the return. Vote please, national deputies. [[17:40:02]] For 218. I'm asking you, then let's make a signal vote, whether we have the required number of votes, or if there's just a silent disagreement. Now, let's not vote "yes" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" is the majority. I very much ask you to prepare for the signal vote and please vote. Signal vote, everyone votes yes, green button. Please hold an emergency vote. [[17:40:41]] For 224 There were two more deputies in the vote, let's try again, please. Once again, we're voting "Pro" to testify to the presence of deputies in the hall. Please vote, signal vote. Please. [[17:41:12]] For 227 We have the potential of being invisible, not yet realized, let's take advantage of it. Once again, if I exercise my headship, I'll put it back. So I'm betting on the return to the vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" (number 1910) for the return to the vote. Please vote. Members, please vote. Vote, please. Return. [[17:41:52]] For 236 Thank you. We were able to do it. And now, again, I'm laying the foundation for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Compulsory Pension Insurance Assembly (No. 1910). Please support the first reading on the basis of 1910. Vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[17:42:25]] For 235 Thank you so much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u107	Thank you, dear colleagues. Let's move on. 1484. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the identification and registration of animals (1484). There is an offer by the author of a reduced procedure to consider. No discussion on the basis and in general. 1484 – on the basis and in general, without discussion, please vote. On the basis and in general without discussion, the proposal was the author and the faction. Vote. [[17:43:35]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Please, colleagues, 1484 on short notice is an offer. Please, 1484 on short notice. [[17:44:06]] For 205 Please, Vadim Yvchenko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I just want you to concentrate, because 4.7 million farms of these are one million cows in the population. Today’s law of March 1st includes vets and fines for our grandmothers. One bar is worth 30 bucks, and the fine is 120. And today we're abolishing this law, transferring the possibility of a fine directly. And secondly, we enter a position where a third person or processor can pay directly for this grandmother. But at the same time, we'll be working on it because it's impossible. This little bill of 30 bracelets, where it costs 4 bracelets or 3. We're going to work on it and we're going to go to the trial work and they're going to look at the cost of these people, the poorest people. So, colleagues, I'm just asking you, because today is really a problem, we wouldn't be torpedoing this question, because today there is no signal vote. But concentrate, let's vote, please, and take this off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. Please report to Angus Taras, head of the committee. Go ahead, sign up, two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, the committee, in its decision, has decided to support the bill as a whole, but by excluding it from paragraph 2, section one, on the transfer of the validity of the provisions on amendments to the Code of Ukraine, I request this under the transcript, on administrative violations, because the relevant provisions have already become effective. In this connection, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Animal Identification and Registration Act should be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u111	Let's be willing to speak, do we include two for, two for against, or do we just give the word? We include two "for", two "against", please write two "for", two "against" in the draft, please. Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u112	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues! As noted by the speaker in the rostrum, the main one, who feeds the family in the village, is the cow. And we've already driven that grandmother into the village with all kinds of registers, tests, vaccines, vaccines, shots, that the cattle will soon be cut down. What will the village survive for? And I urge everyone: let's vote for this bill and on the basis, and on the whole, and simplify the lives of peasants, women, our mothers, grandmothers, let them suck milk, make cream, we'll eat with pleasure, let's vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u113	Thank you for your responsible position. To the words of Herasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, "Block of Peter Prashenka" from the seat or from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u114	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u115	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as the report said, and in our co-reports, we should support this law. I know we're going to Europe, we all know that we don't want Europe to accept these weddings, but at the same time, let's protect these old women, let's really go to concessions. Let's make this difficult time, no matter how difficult it may be for the villagers, but we have to do everything we can to adopt this law and make it a little easier for these peasants, I very much ask you, let's face it, consciously come to this question and vote in favour. We'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u117	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch will be from the rostrum, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! In fact, the argument is enough to support the law, and it must be adopted. This is a normal, civilized practice in European countries. The free trade agreement itself envisions trade, including animal production. And in any country of the European Union, a piece of meat in a supermarket will tell you in two minutes where it was grown and at what hour it was killed, the address and the name of the owner. So, friends, we need to do this -- it's really like we can't trade civilizedly. But that's a plus, minus in this law, you can be warned, identification is a state policy. And all of the years that lasted almost 10 years of identification, all of this was done on account of the state budget, because it's a state policy where the state is first of all interested. Grandma Nastya doesn't export her products. So now that these fines are being abolished in this law, we're translating the value of the identification into a rural farm for which the tariffs, gas prices and everything else are added here, and the price of this is the one that we've written down by identification. Guys, it's not gonna cause anything except a wave of resentment. So the second reading needs to make it clear that the cost of this procedure is 5 or 7 dollars not more, but not 35 dollars, which are written there and more. Let us therefore vote in kind for the first reading and for shortening the deadlines for preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u119	Thank you. Jurko Levchenko's final performance will be out of the picture. Please turn on the microphone. And we'll vote. Deputies, come into the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u120	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. The point is that in this bill and in many of the coalition bills, there is one major problem that is that the good idea is also related to totally unacceptable things. This project proposes to replace the financing of work from identification and registration to budget compensation. So instead of the state paying for it itself, the peasant has to pay it, then file it for the budget. But the question is: Will he be compensated? Or maybe Kabin will take some other decision or some change to the State Budget Act, so we don't have any money in the budget to make up for it. Then again comes another financial burden on the peasant. Therefore, this bill can only be voted on first reading and second reading only if this rule is excluded from the budget. The state has to directly finance appropriate registration procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u121	Thank you very much. So we've heard all the thoughts of pros and cons. And so there's a request for us to move on to the definition of our position. My colleague of honors, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Also, I would like to ask you to come to your office and prepare for the vote so that we can vote responsibly. So it is. Signal? Does that make any sense? Then let's vote first so that we don't "fall" the bill, a signal vote in favour of Bill 1484. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:52:30.]] For 221 I think the potential is and you can go to a full vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u122	Let's focus, colleagues, please. It's an important law. The proposal was, on the basis and in general, or on the basis of the vote? Cornered, based on and all, Taras? Based on that, yeah? Based on the base. Okay. Colleagues, focus! Let's support, this is an important question for peasants. On the ground, please vote. Please be supportive. 1484. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. Based on the base. Vote please, colleagues. Based on the base. [[17:53:23]] For 231 Yes, the decision is made. Thank you, colleagues. Next, dear colleagues. Draft Law (registration 1901), prepared by Yuri Chizmar, a national deputy of Ukraine. There is an offer by the author to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please, please, consider the reduced procedure. [[17:53:58]] For 186
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u123	Please, Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich. Please report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, your view is presented by Act 1901 on a simplified system of citizenship by two categories of individuals who have provided important assistance to Ukraine in protecting its sovereignty and independence. The first category is those who, with guns in their hands today in the East, defend Ukrainian independence. The other one. They're foreigners, they mean people without citizenship. The second category of persons is those who are under pressure at their place of residence today because they supported the authority of Ukraine in the world. We believe that today's procedure should be simplified for them because they need protection today. Those who fought in the territory of the country in the ranks of the Armed Forces. Voluntary battalions cannot return to their homes because there is criminal responsibility in Russia, Belarus, in other SND countries. And people living abroad today, and for example, we remember a very bad case when a woman in the Russian Federation reported the Russian military convoy moving to the Ukrainian border, was under pressure, and was detained for 15 days, lost her job. We believe that people who are loyal to the cause of humanity in the world today should have Ukrainian protection and Ukrainian citizenship if necessary. Clearly, today’s procedure is complicated and has a term of one year. That's why we're offering two months from the moment they apply because protection of their interests is needed today, foreigners who are in the territory of the country can't return to their countries, and people abroad can't protect their civil rights there. So we suggest that we simplify this procedure, we understand that there are observations, there are procedural moments. But I think that, in the interval between first and second reading, everyone can join in and we can regulate this bill so that today Ukraine can show its face to those people who, in fact, courageously, are protecting Ukraine on any front, both on the east and in the international world. The Radical Party urges you to vote in favour of this law, to support it and to support the people who are protecting Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u125	We have a co-reporter. We'll ask her to speak. Maybe it's just short, it's fine. The law is important, it must be voted on. And I invite you to the words of Soslov Irina Mikolayevna. Please be brief and reasoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations on 8 April 2015 reviewed the Act, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Nationality Act. In particular, with regard to simplifying the admission of individuals to Ukraine’s citizenship (registration number 1901), introduced by the national deputies of Ukraine, Lášk, Chižmar, Popov, Vuk and Lozov. The bill proposes amendments to article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act (to simplify the adoption of Ukrainian citizenship), which, first, protected the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine and participated directly in an anti-terrorist operation, or military activities consisting of voluntary battalions, guerrilla troops, or other territorial formations working with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service; second, violated human rights and freedoms in the territory of a foreign State in relation to their position, or activities aimed at promoting sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. The project foresees that the requirements of paragraphs 3 and 6 of Part Two of this article do not extend to the specified categories of persons, namely, permanent legal residence in Ukraine during the last five years, the granting of an emigration permit, the possession of a national language, and the availability of legal sources of existence. These individuals, along with concerns about admission to Ukrainian citizenship, make judgments against the court, establishing the appropriate direct involvement in antiterrorist operations and military actions. The committee supports the idea of a draft law, is understanding that it is necessary to support those people who have come to defend our state, that these issues need to be dealt with expeditiously, because at the moment the process of acceptance into citizenship is quite lengthy in time. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the draft on the first reading is intended to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing. As a result of the urgency of the problem that is being violated, which is now taking place and which needs to be settled, the committee has accepted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u127	Big request, 10 seconds, Mrs. Irina. 10 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u128	The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act to be adopted as a basis. We ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u129	Any suggestions? Leonid Yemen, please. One minute, Leonid Jemetz, and we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u130	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Let the hand dry with that MP who refuses to vote for this law now. Because these people, they are more citizens than most of those in this room, especially those who have left this room, because they do not dwell in the back of their lives, protect the Ukrainian community with their health, and protect our peace and tranquillity. So, colleagues, it is your duty to vote in favour of this bill in favour. Grants, give citizens the rights of those defenders of the Ukrainian State. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u131	Oleg Beresuk, one minute. Simeon Semenchenko, please, a minute. Let's not push it, let's vote it out for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u132	Since the beginning of the fighting, a large number of foreigners have participated in the protection of Ukraine, including the Donbass battalion, many Georgians, many Belarusians, many Russian citizens have died protecting our Fatherland. The Samopomić faction supports the adoption of this law. This will allow people who have protected our family to legalize themselves to the end and to feel the same way we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u133	Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, of course our political power supports this bill. And we want to express our sincere thanks to every citizen of the world who today feels like a citizen of Ukraine, who is essentially protecting the territory of Ukraine. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion for you to vote today. Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like to address two topics that don't apply to this law, but that's what's important. First, one of the former National Deputies, members of our faction, is working successfully as Governor of the Ternopil region, and in the meantime, we don't have enough votes in this room, so I suggest that he write a statement that is appropriate for the formation of MPs. And to get Mr. Chubarov to join our faction, he's next. And the second important question is, today we have a day under the sign of miners. Look, half the hall is gone. Please give the commission that those who have walked today and tomorrow will walk so that they do not receive their wages, so that they can pay off their debts to miners. That's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u135	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Fishbuck, one minute, and we vote, "Peter Dusty Block." Vote, fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, we should thank the authors of this bill, it is, indeed, important. But it needs to be accepted in the first reading, and for the second reading, we need to prepare procedural questions on how citizenship will be given. In the first reading, we need to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u137	Thank you, colleagues. We're in. a proposal is made for voting on the basis of the draft Act, registration number 1901, to simplify the admission to Ukrainian citizenship of individual categories of persons. Based on that, my friends. Please, on the ground. Based on the base. [[18:02:50]] For 235 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Come on, colleagues. We have two laws. One. Two more laws of importance. Listen very carefully, very carefully! Now there will be the International Technical Assistance Act in Chernobyl. And the other, the law, the colleagues, about the ZNO. This is where there are differences in legislation that we need to correct today. So I'd like to take this very seriously. Please, 2168. Mikola Tomenko. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote. And I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[18:03:36]] For 175 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Literally a minute, and let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, this is what the situation looks like. When changes to the Tax Code were made, obviously I don't think consciously, a rule was removed, which is the norm of our international contracts for financing the "Hidden" construction in Chernobyl. We have a donor conference on April 29th, and we expect the EBRD, the principle of Germany's position, to be supported by all other European countries, and we're getting the last tranche of about $850 million, and we're finally going to complete the Hide-2 or the sarcophagus. Instead, it is clear from their request that the EBRD and other European countries return to the norm of the international agreement that we are under obligation to implement and free international and technical assistance from taxation. In fact, we're going back to the current standard as of January 1, 2015. We discussed this on the tax committee yesterday, there's full support for the committee, the committee head can say so. There is a request to vote in the first and in general, excluding section I, paragraph 3, from the text of the bill, and all the rest is supported in the first and in general. And hopefully on April 29, the European states are actively supporting us and we're going to get 850.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u139	Thank you. Colleagues, let's correct this mistake. I don't think there's any need to report. Taking into account the committee's proposals on the basis and in general this bill. 2168. 2168 as a whole. This is a correction of the inaccuracies regarding technical assistance for the Chernobyl AES. An important question, please, dear colleagues. Please vote on the basis and in general. Let's support it. [[18:05:34]] For 226 Decision taken. Next up, colleagues. Next. I'm asking the National Deputies to return to the hall, please. The COO is an extremely important issue of 2672. Please, 2672 on short notice, let's support it. [[18:06:08]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Lilia Mikhailna, please, literally for a minute, and we will vote on two more very important laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, this Act is called the Higher Education Act, which aims at correcting the technical inaccuracies that are contained in the Higher Education Act and the transparency of state procurement. It is a matter of reading in various parts of article 44 of the law. We're comparing these parts. It's also very important that I say one thing under the transcript right now that I'm asking you to listen to. That the formation of a government order would take into account all the factors listed here in the law. And after the words "proposals of higher education institutions," we complement the words "taking into account regional needs." Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m1.u141	Thank you. Let's back up, dear fellows. I think Lilia Mikhailovna has made a very clear position on this law. There is a proposal to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Is it supported? Please vote, my friends, on the basis and in general. Let's support education. On the basis and in general, please support. [[18:07:47]] For 227 Thank you. Colleagues, I want to consult you, there are two other laws that are very important. The first law is about the characteristics of the exercise of property in a multi-room building, prepared. It doesn't, does it? No votes. Okay. But I'm still going to put the signal on 1565. What are we talking about, friends? It's about the fact that this law destroys the JECK monopoly, this law fully supported by all civil society, the expert environment and the local self-government. It's a second reading already, it's already a table. If there is a possibility to vote. Okay. Look, another law is important. The draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine prohibiting the privatization of objects of the engineering infrastructure of the melioritative systems and the lands on which these objects are located. Meliorization. 1128. Colleagues, there is a proposal for the head of the PIC and the national deputy Gordjeyev to vote on the basis and generally on the prohibition of melioration, on the prohibition of privatization of engineering facilities, meliorrhial systems, and on the land on which these objects are located. Righteous law? Let's, colleagues, on the basis of a total of 1128, please vote. On the basis and in general, my friends. Let's support it. [[18:09:51]] For 216 Who didn't make it? All right, let's take it as a whole, 1128. Prepared to vote, right? Prepared to vote? as a basis and as a whole we vote 1128. On the basis and in general. [[18:10:25]] For 223 Okay. Colleagues! Last time, calm down. Colleagues, in second reading and in general. This is the second reading, not the first reading. Second reading, and in general, friends, 1128, please support, vote. Sergei, we're voting. In the second reading and in general. [[18:11:12]] For 225 On the second reading and in total 1,128, colleagues, concentrate, please, and do not run in the hall. In general. In the second reading and in general. Please insert the card. In second reading and in general, please. [[18:11:54]] For 223 None. Guys, thank you. We'll take this up. Dear colleagues, many important laws have voted today, but very many have not voted. There will be a morning session tomorrow at 10 a.m. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Faction leaders, please come to my office, please.
