ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u1	Dear fellow national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Before we begin the evening session, I would like to invite Olga Vadimovna Bogomolec, with information for the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you with the following information, tomorrow in Ukraine, people with diabetes are celebrating Sugar Diabetes Day. The Sugar - Diabetes Association will be conducting blood sugar measurements for national deputies tomorrow at 9 a.m. and 9:30 a.m. So those who want to take part in the measurement, please don't have breakfast, and in the living room you can take this test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[16:06:38]] 339 national deputies are registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We now have a question of the agenda, the first reading. I suggest, now we start talking about them and we move on after discussing the order of the day's first reading to the vote. Please, 2286a, draft law. The author insists on transferring his consideration to another plenary day. 3191, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (for State Administration expenses). Head of the Ischeikin subcommittee. The author requests a postponement of 3191 proceedings. 2183, draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve certain provisions on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. National Deputy Julius Mamchure. Please report 2183a. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! You have before you the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve certain provisions on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please, chairman, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the author of the bill of the People's MP Mamchure to consider the draft law in a simplified manner. We have a lot of work to do today, so I think it would be appropriate to support that proposal. Please concentrate, prepare for a vote on the short-term procedure of the draft law. Please, colleagues, the offer of the people's MP Mamchura: 2183a is a reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, we're voting short. [[16:10:03]] For 116 Please, Your Honor. We have many economic laws ahead of us, we need to work more intensively, so such a small law can be considered by a reduced procedure. Please concentrate, colleagues, on consideration of the reduced procedure 2183a. We still have a lot of economic issues, colleagues. Please provide support for consideration of the reduced procedure 2183a. Short-term review, small law, just a lot of other economic laws. Please support, we vote. Short-term review, colleagues. [[16:11:04]] For-129 All right, report. Please, a national MP. Take your seats. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u6	Yes, pay attention, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u7	One more minute, I'm going to, now, now, I'm going to re-supply the people's deputies to review the reduced procedure. Oh, he's coming in for the national MPs. Dear colleagues, there is the offer of the National MP, Julius Mamchure, to consider this bill in a simplified manner. My colleague Mamchure made such an offer. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure 2183a. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure, please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. Short-term review procedure. [[16:12:42]] For a hundred and Almost, almost. Almost all factions vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues, once again, the offer of the People's Mamchure for a summary procedure in view of many issues of the order of the day. Please vote, vote, colleagues, summary procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:13:44]] For a hundred and There is a need for a number of votes. Please report to your esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u8	Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Laws on Improving Certain Provisions for the Activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. All of us in this room in January passed this law. Well, as practice has shown, it has not been a year since he needs improvement. The draft law proposes that an open competition for office in the central office of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau should have been held within a four-month period from the date of acquisition of the law in force, i.e. by 25 May. As we can see, this term is already due, it will have to be corrected, and in this edition this question will be corrected. With a view to avoiding the flow of information with limited access, the bill proposes that the appointment of NABU staff members, who remain a state secret, should be based on the results of a closed competition, as determined by the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. The bill deals with the beginning of the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Presuming that the designated bureau has been operational since the next day, from the date of publication of the decision of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to initiate the activities of the Bureau in the newspaper Government Courier. The bill also improves the position of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act in part of employees' salaries. In addition, the bill suggests that the territorial administration be headed by the manager, not the director, as is currently being defined. Thank you for your attention. Please support and consider the simplified procedure for second reading. In the first reading, please accept, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, report to the committee head. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u10	The Anti-Corruption Committee considered the bill, acknowledged it to meet the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and recommended that Parliament adopt it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u11	Please two for, two for against. Liniko, national MP. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u12	Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to extend a warm welcome to the workers of agriculture, our inhabitants of the village with a professional holiday that they will celebrate next Sunday, the Day of Agricultural Workers. I ask all the members of the Supreme Council to applaud our laborers who feed the country. Who feed our home country, which makes us live today, including in this room. I would like to thank the veterans of agriculture, these people of important age, who have worked their entire lives in the fields with mechanics, combiners, pigs, milkmaids. Honor and gratitude to you, the people who feed the country, the people who enrich our country! Health, well-being. And I'd like to offer you, distinguished laborers, a sincere apology for the fact that the authorities are always avoiding you; for always the interests of a peasant, the interests of a man's work out there on the periphery. In Parliament, I want all the people, all the deputies, regardless of their factions, to unite around the interests of the people of work: the laborers, the peasants, those who glorify our Ukraine with labor feats, those who now hold our village. It's an honor and a thank you! And thank you to the hands that smell like bread. Thank you, noble peasants, distinguished laborers!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u13	Please, Yuri Solovay. Yuri Solovay. Ah, Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u14	Dear, distinguished colleagues! According to the law, represented by Mr. Julius Mamchure. I want to say that this law combines two parts that don't connect as a very fast horse and a very shaky rope. Why? Because in this law the first part is important enough. This is the part that tells us about the need to hold a competition for positions that are replaced by undercover workers. And it's very necessary. Part two of this law establishes unjustified wage increases for members or employees of the National Anticorruption Bureau. Why? Because the legislator in the law, in the basic law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, has foreseen enough pay for work exclusively within the limits of the rules provided for in the law itself. That's why I want to talk to the author, Mr. Julius Mamchure. Mr. Julius, I'd like to address you. And I would like to propose to the room to support this law on the basis of the first reading, only if the authors agree to exclude the second part of this bill on raising or the new structure of wages for the employees of the NAB. She has to be expelled and the contests left behind. Only then can it be left behind, accepted as a basis, and refined in the second reading. If you agree, you can vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Julius Mamchure. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u16	Dear National Deputies! I agree that maybe people who make such important decisions, whether or not, can't get a small salary. We know we have to fight corruption. And those amounts that will be offered to certain officials will be greater than what they will receive at the expense of the state. So I'd like to agree with the paper. Maybe from first reading to second reading, we're correcting the wages of the employees of the NAB. Maybe some adjustments will be made to the draft law. But I completely agree that our employees have to get a decent salary, so they're struggling with it. With a hydra like corruption. So in the first reading. And I ask the presiding officer to put to the vote yet, in a reduced procedure, for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal now following the first reading of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws to improve certain provisions on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. And for the second reading, we'll be able to discuss, prepare a table of changes, including, perhaps, what Victor Chumak said, so that he doesn't stop this bill. So now I'm going to put to the vote this proposal, a signal vote on acceptance as a basis. Please, everyone, prepare for the vote. This is a question of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Colleagues, please take our seats, prepare for the vote. Alert vote on the improvement of individual regulations on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (2183a). Ready? Please give me a signal vote on the basis of 2183a. 2183a. Signal. Vote. Please. Vote. On the basis of that, it's a signal vote. [[16:23:59]] For-161 We haven't gotten the required number of votes yet. Dear colleagues, we will continue to discuss the decision. This is important. Let's move on. 2531a, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of State control and control (2531a), prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. There is a proposal for the minister to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support the Minister's proposal to consider 2531a with a reduced procedure, please. Short-term review, please. [[16:24:48]] For-143 Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? You have been introduced to your consideration the draft Law (Registration No. 2531a) amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of State oversight and control. Registration number 2531a. There is an offer of an economy minister to vote, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. We're voting on a reduced procedure, colleagues. [[16:25:35]] For-154 The decision took the necessary number of votes. Please, Minister of Economy Ivaras Abromavichus. Colleagues, let's do two hours of quality work right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our day of economic development. This bill is part of the reform of State control. These changes are essential for creating an added environment for small and medium-sized business in Ukraine. The regulators have long become a repressive machine in our country, and this must be combated in order to increase the investment climate in our country. What the bill provides. It's basically about two things. First, it is the establishment of an automated system of public oversight, which will ultimately identify who, who, who, why and when they visit. I mean, who does when they check on someone? This will be in public space, and every business entity will know about it. The second important thing is that if two supervisory authorities go to check one company or even more per year, all of them will be able to automatically merge, so that the business will be subject to checks that will be integrated. The bill also provides for the possibility of informing entrepreneurs about e-mail checks, which is in principle adopted in all developed countries, and also for the personal liability of the official to introduce incorrect information into the system, the database. Is such changes sufficient for us to reform State control? Of course not. Therefore, there are three more MPs on the agenda with regard to State control, and please also support them. However, this bill, which we are currently discussing, will allow for the systematization of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u20	Systematize the work of the entire army of officials, controllers and free business from excessive attention in coffee bars. Ladies and gentlemen, the positive impact of this bill will be felt by every entrepreneur in this country, the business climate of our country will improve. Please support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u21	Please, Halasyuk Victor, report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u22	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The Industrial Policy Committee considered draft law 2531a, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which aims to reduce regulatory pressure on business, especially on small and medium-sized businesses. The idea of this bill is to reform the state oversight system (control), a series of very useful and important money that the bill envisions. It's also the creation of a single database of all state checks to make them happen in an absolutely transparent way known to business. This is the positioning of the database in open access on the Internet, with the purpose, the authority and the result of all checks. Whatever happens, as now, to the mysterious actions of the control organs. This is the preparation of the annual inspection plan and its publication by December 1st of the previous year. So there's not too much pressure on business to have it planned, predictable control. This is a ban on carrying out more than one planned test during the year to avoid the possibilities of testing, including business, political, and other pressures. This is the introduction of the personal financial responsibility of officials for entering unreliable information into the database. In fact, it's about minimizing the human factor in making decisions, which is extremely important. We believe that today is the time to remove all unnecessary corruption, bureaucratic, artificial barriers to business, in order to ensure that small and medium-sized businesses and Ukrainian manufacturing are restored. Therefore, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, having considered this bill, notes that it should be adopted in the first reading on a basis similar to that of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific Expert. Dear colleagues! I propose to support this bill on the basis and to make life easier for small and medium-sized businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u23	Please, Your Honor, two in favour, two in favor. The People's Deputy of Kryvoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u24	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukraine! Dear entrepreneurs! As the head of the business subcommittee, I would simply like to point out that business, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, is quite needed and very much needed by this law. I'd like to vote it out now, of course, right now and in general, but I do realize that there might be appropriate comments to be made on the committee. So I'm asking every MP to support this bill in the first reading clearly and to show our business that, in principle, we understand that today they find it rather difficult, as they are being pressured by different verification structures, how, by abuse of their authority, they are simply trying, excuse me, to do this small and medium-sized business. So today we need to show how ready we are to show. And how much we're willing to fight, first of all, the corruption that's in the run-up to small and medium-sized business. Dear colleagues, I urge each of you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u25	Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u26	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u27	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, no doubt, the transparency and understanding of the logic of the system of State oversight or control must be both supportive and welcome. Instead, let me draw attention to the fact that we have in our committee an annual discussion of how we can strike a balance between fighting against the possibility of using corruption, environmental, fire, other nature, but on the other hand, how we do not make a situation to. I'll tell you that in 2015, I think we have the year that most of Ukraine has suffered from chemical production, the most of it has suffered from metallurgical production, the most of it from the various emissions of harmful enterprises. When we said that we're stopping checks, because this is corruption, all the big businesses that work with harmful manufacturing, they understand very well what is in today's scheme. And today's schematics are to check out any enterprise. For example, in Sixth, we had a tragedy, people couldn't get out, the whole city was flooded with waste. It took a special decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to get the inspector to come and measure what was going on in the water. When we had a burnout, we couldn't get in there, check what was going on, because we needed a special decision from the Cabinet of Ministers. There's been a dramatist in Chercas because the firemen haven't been there in 100 years, so we're in a liberal position, no one's been using fire safety. That's why I, my friends, am going to support and vote in the first reading. But in large enterprises of harmful manufacturing, whether we want to make a list or find a special control scheme that would allow us not to abuse liberalism and deregulation. So once again, let's think about how.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, Solovay, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u30	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, as my deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, I am very pleased to note that, after all, the Ukrainian Parliament has come to the adoption of laws relating to economics, job creation and an increase in the tax base. In addition, when I go back to this bill, I would merge it with the following two, since all three bills apply to the same subject – this is a test by the state authorities of business entities. And it's not about not checking, it's about checking, but you have to do it in a way that doesn't hurt people who work, who create jobs. And in particular, a package of these three bills contains a number of fundamental norms. Well, for example, that over the course of the year, all control organs have only 15 -- for small business or 30 days -- for all checks, that's a serious rule. Because most of the time, most of the time, they're sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u31	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u32	Employees of one company or another are working, not to develop businesses, but to provide discounts to various types of control authorities in order to complete the test. There are a number of other very positive norms in this bill's package. That's why I'm calling on all the deputies: to support all three bills as a basis and, as a result, to work out the one-and-one process that regulates this whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we ready to proceed to the vote? The discussion is over. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. And while the MPs are in the room, I'm giving the minister one more minute for the final lineup. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u34	Thank you for your support, and I particularly agree with the last speaker. With regard to Mr. Tomenko's statement, I would like to say that the bill on the extension of the moratorium is still on the agenda. This bill does not stop checks, this bill on systematizing the work of the supervisory authorities, in order to also introduce transparent mechanisms. Therefore, there is a strong request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, you've heard all the thoughts. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. First, I'm going to set up a signal to see if we have enough potential in our room. And I'm putting the bill of Law 2531a on the basis of a committee proposal. Signal vote. Please vote. Signal vote. [[16:38:19]] For 202 I see almost all the factions support the bill. But I'm asking you to go straight into the hall, be more disciplined, work on a day's work. I'm going to re-vote. I very much ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So the signal vote on bill 2531a is based on the committee's proposal. Signal vote, please re-vote. Please. [[16:39:04]] For 229 Thank you. Please concentrate now, and we are now putting to the vote, Mr. John, please vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the field of State control, 2531a, on the basis of a committee proposal. Please take part in the vote, please vote, 2531a as a basis, please. [[16:39:45]] For 238. Decision taken. I welcome the minister and wish him a fruitful, active second reading work. A statement from two factions about giving a break came to the fore, and they are willing to replace it with a statement from the rostrum. According to the Rules, I have to give my word, this is the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth. And I give my word for a three-minute performance instead of a break from Igor Shurmi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u36	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. What does the political and economic repression look like today? I'll try to explain. Real-economy enterprises are under unprecedented pressure. On the one hand, with a complete collapse in the economy, businesses survive because the development of the internal market has virtually stopped. Those companies that are competitive in the external market are forced to lend the State Budget indefinitely, paying the value added tax, and there is no guarantee in enterprises that VAT will be reimbursed on time and in time, the compensation mechanism is completely opaque and contains a corrupt factor. Businesses without reason, with the violation of the Ukrainian Law, are shutting down, underlining, the automatic compensation of VAT, and more importantly, this procedure in elections has become markedly marked by political coloration, when working companies whose labour groups have been identified with the support of the Opposition Block have ceased to compensate for VAT in general in violation of current legislation. Since May 2015, no cash has been recovered. The government's debt to the Ukrainian business for VAT compensation is billions of dollars. Only after Zaporoztal is more than a billion dollars. Developing enterprises, providing social security for their employees, need working money. Moreover, domestic exporting producers are the only providers of regional budgets. For example, Zaporoztal's 10 months of 2015 accounted for more than 2 billion dollars in all budgets. Along with the Zaporozhye group, more than 3 billion dollars. And over 30,000 people work there. The figure in the group at the end of the year is almost 4 billion dollars, which is practically the size of the annual budget of Zaporozhye or 80 percent of the entire budget of Zaporozhye. If businesses work together, they have a regional economy, sub-organizations. These are hundreds of thousands of people who get paid on time and on time. It is the work of exporting companies that fills the state budget, the local budgets that allow pensions to be paid, the salaries of budget workers. Billions of debt from VAT countries wash off circulation costs, placing them on the verge of a stop that leads to an economic, social collapse. Businesses cannot develop and develop in a row. and deal with subcontractors. Stopping large businesses is a killer blow to Ukraine's economy. So a small, medium-sized business in today's conditions is not able to ensure GDP growth. I'm talking to the guards. Not by word of mouth, but by word of mouth: this is how the authorities respect the work of metalworking workers, they do everything they can to prevent people from supporting them, as much as possible, from hating them. There's no one left to point at. It's power. And the most dangerous regional separatism is the security for the guards, which is completely on the hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u37	Please 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u38	This is what the split of Ukraine looks like: we don't give money, we don't give money to Ukrainian citizens just where you're sitting. That's who works for the split of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, we have received a letter from representatives of all the MPs: Lucenko, Sobolev, Láško, Soboljev Yegor, asking for urgent consideration of the order of the day, which we have in order, but still. It refers to the permission of the Supreme Council to conduct international studies in Ukraine. Learning begins on November 16th. And it is very important that we approve the President's decree to allow the training of Ukrainian military forces in conjunction with foreign military forces in the territory of our state. This question is incontrovertible. This is a matter of national security and defence. It's just the President's decree. And I'm asking the heads of factions to come to the hall and ask them to allow this question to be put to the vote now. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall. Yeah, yeah, first. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. The lessons that we've been pursuing for a long time through international negotiations can now be threatened by the absence of discipline in the hall. I would very much like all the deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. It won't take long, it won't be incontrovertible. But it needs our coordinated and responsible decision. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm putting to the vote an ad hoc motion to put on the table now a bill to adopt the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other states to Ukraine for participation in multinational training No. 3428. Please vote and please support. Please vote first. We're voting on the vote. [[16:46:07]] For 232 Thank you for your support. Please do not leave the hall, but enter the hall. Please take up jobs. And I'm putting the vote again, through ad hoc, now at the Supreme Council meeting of draft Law 3428. Please support the proposal and start consideration now. Please vote. We vote in agreement and responsibly. [[16:46:46]] For 233 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia, Ivan Stepanovich. Please report quickly. The hall supports the initiative. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u40	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The idea of learning is to prepare a defined composition of mechanized battalion tactical aircraft groups, along with the participation of troops and instructors from the United States and Canada Armed Forces. Teaching term: November 23, 2016 to December 20, 2016 The site is the Yavorov region. A total of 350 and 100 military personnel will participate in each rotation from the United States and Canada Armed Forces. It will contribute to the development of the operational capabilities of our units, to the promotion of the field training of the special staff and to the strengthening of trust and security among the participating countries. The cost of this training for the Armed Forces is foreseen by the budget for 2015. The cost of the United States and Canada Armed Forces units is borne by certain countries. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u41	Thank you. The reporter approached me with a request to put the matter under review. Let's listen to the committee head. And I'm asking you to support the committee head's proposal to consider the bill in short notice. Please be supportive. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:48:44]] For 208 Decision taken. The reporter records his report in connection with the good and responsible decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can we vote, company? We can. I am voting on the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the military forces of other States to participate in the territory of Ukraine in multinational education (number 3428) as a basis and as a whole. We support the Ukrainian military, we support the Ukrainian defence. We vote on the basis as a whole. Please, let's vote, [[16:49:36]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. I'm sorry I had to go through the ad hoc procedure, but this is a very responsible decision. Thank you for your support. Thank you for understanding in the hall. Thus, the following is Bill 3158 of the Law on the Specificities of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity. There is a request from the reporter that we consider the reduced procedure. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:50:24]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u42	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, you and I planned an economic day today, and we got an economic hour. But the hour is better than nothing. Really? So we're starting an economic hour that's very important for a small medium-sized business by a bill to introduce a moratorium on the planning of inspections, mostly by the majority of the control bodies that will allow for eight months to remove regulatory pressure mainly from the small medium-sized business, and which will give eight months of respite to these poor people who are now surviving in these extremely difficult conditions and who are actually feeding the country. And on the other hand, it will give us eight months of the Cabinet of Ministers to finally reform the regulatory system of Ukraine, not to tell us how beautiful and beautiful it will be, but to do so. Eight months is enough to keep the Ukrainian regulatory system in line with European standards, to make it not corrupt, but to protect business interests, consumer interests. So, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you of the essence of this bill, 3153, which has been drafted by the People's Deputies, members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, together with the Ministry of Economics, together with the rehabilitation package of reforms, other public organizations. The bill proposes to establish a moratorium on the implementation of planned measures, the exercise of State control (control) by 30 June 2016. In fact, it is a matter of restricting for eight months checks to 40 out of 51 government authorities. At the same time, for a number of such control bodies, this is a small list, but it is extremely important. So I would also like to point out that there's a proposal that came after the committee, and I think it's absolutely right, from Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka, to complete article 6 with the "State Environmental Inspection." Please record this in the protocol, I think it's a reasonable proposition. Why is this moratorium necessary? Because the previous moratorium, which was in effect, allowed 72 times to reduce the number of scheduled checks and double the number of out - of - schedule checks. So that's how we significantly reduce the pressure on entrepreneurship and, above all, on small and medium-sized businesses. I would like to stress separately that this bill contains for the first time money, which provides for additional protection for the entrepreneur. We predict that out-of-plan checks are carried out solely by consent of the Cabinet of Ministers or the State Regulatory Service, and any agreed inspection must be included on the website in an open list of checks. So if he comes to a small contractor who wants to do a test, and the entrepreneur doesn't find this check in the register on the public website of the State Regulatory Service, then this entrepreneur can absolutely legally refuse to let the person who checks in on the enterprise. So we're making the test procedure completely transparent, and we're thus making it impossible for this corrupt pressure that was very often valued in small businesses. Because when someone's not being checked at all, and someone's being checked 10-20 times, it shouldn't be. So, honourable colleagues, our committee has considered this bill. It is recommended by the GNEU as a basis and in the first reading. But given its relevance and level of work, the committee proposes to support the bill on a basis and generally, taking into account technical legal rights. And again, I would like to add that I support Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka's proposal to supplement article 6 with the State Environmental Inspectorate. Please support me by taking into account the positions I have made in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u43	Thank you, reporter. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, of course. I'm asking you to sign up: two against, I'll let everyone speak. Please log in. Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich, "self-help" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u44	Aunt Ostrich, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u45	I'll ask you, dear fellows, to speak clearly, because sometimes I don't hear what your last name is. Keep your voice clear so that the operator can hear and transmit. Ostrikova, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! A very positive bill as a whole, but the exceptions in article 6 raise questions for the drafters, why won't this moratorium be extended to the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection? It doesn't really protect consumers' rights, it does what it does by going to check the business and nightmares it with its endless teasing about confirming conformity, declarations, certificates and so on. It's not about protecting consumers' rights. Why is it excluded from the number of services to which this moratorium is extended? Next question. Fiscal services. It is still unreformed, and the government does not act on the institutional reforms of the fiscal service. Why do we leave it here among those services that are not subject to the moratorium? I believe that this bill can only be voted on as a basis. And we should be very considerate to look again at those bodies that do not have moratoriums.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Beneath Gennady Grigorovitch, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u48	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, I am. As a member of the committee of profile is co-author of this bill, I am pleased to see such support for this bill in the hall. And given that today we have a proposal for inclusion and addition of the State Environmental Inspection itself, taking into account the observations that our colleague Mrs. Ostrickov has made, in principle, I think there might be a point to vote on it just in the first reading. However, I would like to say, my fellow Members, your attention to the fact that the bill in question is, in fact, a very consistent bill, which we have just voted on, is 2631a. And so if we see that there is a threat of any other subject being tested by a government inspection agency or another, then we have the task of voting in a second reading as quickly as possible, and then we will have a clear understanding of who and how we plan to test. So today, the People's Front faction is ready to vote in favour of that bill that was submitted for consideration in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u49	Thank you. Bondar passes the word to Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u50	Valerius Pisarenko, rebirth faction. Dear colleagues, you know, my colleagues and I have passed a similar bill from Rebirth, but we have proposed for five years not to allow any checks on business subjects. Because half the world today, they will not make the relationship between entrepreneurship and control organs normal today. Unfortunately, what we see today is increased pressure on entrepreneurs by controlling authorities. And what is being proposed here today to adopt a law for several months and by exclusive categories of control bodies is also not bad for not having any other limitations in general. But let's face it, today we have a system of fights by entities of entrepreneurial activity by the controlling authorities. So we need to give them a little bit of a break, given the difficult state of the economy, and free them from every day of their encounter with those bodies that come to check on someone. That's why our proposal is: today we're going to vote on this bill, but anyway, we have to move away from just passing coalition bills, there's normal opposition bills, and we're going to expand around these bodies, and we're going to have to set more deadlines for business to develop, and the controlling authorities will forget that we're fighting entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u51	Smoking Maksim Pavlovich, Peter Dusty Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u52	Thank you. Chicken Maxim Pavlovich, town of Dnipropetrovsk, 25th constituency. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I want to remind you all that one of the functions of government is to exercise state control, and to carry out checks by state authorities is one form of such control. Of course, no one may want to pay taxes or meet in the yard of examiners. But the analysis of the bill gives us reason to believe that the authors are still trying a little bit to remove the public authorities from doing their job. How can consumer rights be protected today when checks cannot be carried out? How can we ensure the quality and safety of the products provided, the work being done if we cannot go out and control this exercise? This causes great tension in society, as people do not feel protected, even to go nowhere and anywhere to complain about what they are. They've got the wrong window. It can't be like that. Some of the provisions of the law are generally very difficult to accept. Well, for example, before pre-planned testing, it's going to be necessary to publish this permission for pre-planned testing on a special website. Friends, after such a publication on the intention of carrying out an unplanned examination of the complaint, there will be no place to go, since there will be no evidence of wrongdoing. This is the first time. Secondly, what do our vast army of government officials do today when they cannot perform their direct functions? Today, it is not necessary to prohibit verification, but it is necessary to improve the legislative mechanism for its implementation. Then there will be a balance of power both for the protection of rights and consumers, for the consumer of services and for the performance of jobs, and for the entrepreneurs themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, there are many willing speakers. Don't yell, it'll help. I'm going to give all the factions out of faction first. And in the second round, we're going to go very far, society. We'll see what it's like. I'm going to try to give it to everyone, but I'm going to ask that somehow less of this desire, because it's going to be infinite. Now. Excuse me, Lewchenko since the non-factions. Then I'll give you my word. All right, I'll give everyone a word so there's no discussion. Please, Lechchenka. In a minute, everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to remind you, this little lynnep, let's say we do, remind the coalition, which started the financial crisis in America in the eighth or ninth year, if you've forgotten, and then turned to the whole world. It started with Bush's administration canceling any checks on the financial institutions at all, which was why they had a total, essentially, collapse that turned to the whole world. And now we're going to the reality of Ukraine. We take the city of Kyiv, for example, where, through a moratorium on illegal forgetfulness, moratoriums on inspection through the DR, and, of course, through the power of Mr. Klitschka, the city has been completely destroyed in the last year. And when the National MP writes in the Đararchbudinspection, "Check something, please." The State Department says, "Sorry, we can't, we have a moratorium, we can't do anything." And the city is being destroyed. So, you know, don't change your mind. Instead of telling people to lie that deregulation will save Ukraine, just assign the right frame of reference to appropriate positions that will not be stolen. This is the main thing, not telling us that economic development can be replaced by deregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u55	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u56	In this way, this bill cannot be voted on because it essentially destroys the state as such and transforms Ukraine into an even wilder market than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u57	Thank you. Please now give Novak Natala, then I'll give both Oleni Skrum and Igor Lucenk. Please, Novak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u58	Honourable MPs, the fact that the state is a whole mechanism, and if you ban it, it will no longer be a state, but a duck's curve. So I also propose not to uphold this law, since this law will to some extent support the dominant subjects, but it completely violates the rights of citizens, consumers, and prohibit checks. In addition, there is also the deception of the owners, since the financial checks have not been canceled, they will continue. Now look at the citizens what they have, a total violation of their rights, the construction of illegal shores, the destruction of the forest fund, the illegal extraction of sand, and all of this when you go to the authorities, they say checks are forbidden. The point is that these bodies need to be cleansed of corruption, reform and moratorium are really not the path that leads to reform, reform, or moratorium. So I propose not to support this law as an anti-national law against citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u59	Thank you. Helen Schrum, she raised her hand faster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Alona's Shkrum, Fatherland faction. Indeed, this bill is important, and our colleague, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel, is co-author of the bill, is very seriously involved in its development, unfortunately, cannot present it today. We are ready to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading and to work with it in the second. What's important here is, apart from the moratorium, a short moratorium on these tests. I think it's important that the Cabinet of Ministers be instructed to develop an urgent strategy and a programme for reforming the state oversight system. This is what the Cabinet of Ministers had to do for itself a long time ago, and we're actually forcing it to do so through this bill. But let us not deceive ourselves, fellow workers. It's just a moratorium on personnel checks without changing corruption in the State Fiscal Inspectorate, in government fiscal services, without changing these people, there's not going to be any systemic reform. The government has the authority to do this now, run open competitions on the heads of these inspections and make this reform without us. Let us demand that he finally begin making real reforms rather than imitating such violent activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. Dear colleagues, there are about ten people on record. That's 15 minutes. We had three positions here: one to vote as a basis, one to vote as a whole, the third to not support this criminal law at all. Maybe there's a fourth. It's just you to me. I'd like to consult you. We can go into 15-20 minutes of discussion, but is there one more, or is there going to be another new proposal, I doubt it. And, colleagues, with respect to all those who raise their hands, I have written down all those who raised their hands. This is going to be 10 or 12 people. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you. I don't think there's gonna be any new positions. We'll just be discussing the bill by the end of the day. I have a request: to give a closing word to the committee head, and then just all the suggestions that have been made, I'll put them to the vote. Does the hall support my position? I thank you for your understanding and apologize to those who raised their hand but did not speak. Please, Halasyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that this bill does not prohibit it for eight months, but restricts it. The plan forbids, out-of-plans are possible, but only in public mode, only because everything will be on the DDR site. Nothing will happen in a mysterious way. So if someone wants to preserve some corruption flows that exist somewhere in some central authority, say so by voting against that law. So I ask you once again for the interests of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, in the interests of small and medium-sized businesses, to support the committee's drafting and to support the committee's decision to vote on the basis and in general with Mr. Tomenko's only addition, which I read under the transcript. And I'm answering the question of "Help": food security is of particular importance, because we're going to put restrictions on it, we're going to lose exports to Europe. So these exceptions, they're justified, they're worked together with the Ministry of Economics, with public organizations. Please support the committee as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of Mr. Tomenko, which I have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall, take your seats. Yeah, he's still a minister. Excuse me, I haven't given my word to another faction. One faction did not act. Debenkov, one minute. Minister then, one minute, final. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your seats. Please, Dobrenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u64	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, the bill is useful for the economy, for the country as a whole in this difficult, difficult financial time. As for the comments of some coalition representatives regarding the need not to engage in propaganda but the need to change people. Well, based on what we now have in the government is not good enough management, that's right, in quotes, and appropriately placed people in places. Perhaps it is more appropriate to adopt appropriate laws that establish moratoriums. Instead, I would like to point out the moratorium on tax checks. A bill was passed last December, according to which the moratorium was introduced. As a result, many tax offences from your application, including your vote, have been committed in small businesses where no chamber checks have been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u65	Final word, one minute, Minister. Please turn on the microphone and please enter the Chamber, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u66	Colleagues! I fully support the head of the committee in the field. Colleagues, let's not fool ourselves, let's not fool people, let's not fool business. All the monitoring bodies at this stage, at this stage of our country's development, are repressive. They all don't want checks, they just go for money, they go for bribes, they go out of business. Let's put in a moratorium. In the meantime, we will all work together to adopt a number of very important laws on State control. To put everyone in order and allow the supervisory authorities to carry out their functions after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (number 3153) on the basis of a signal vote. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. 3153, signal vote. Please vote. [[17:11:24]] For 225 There's potential in the room. Dear colleagues, please prepare to enter the hall and take up jobs that have not yet arrived. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Specificities of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (No. 3153), as amended, which the committee's head sounded from the rostrum under the stenogram first on the basis. Please vote on the basis. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[17:12:17]] For 247 Now I'm putting draft Law 3153 in general as amended. There's a denial in the hall. There's a denial in the hall, but I'm betting on the hall. Whoever supports this bill in general, please vote. Please don't vote. Please, whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:12:58]] For-200 The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. The law is adopted as a basis. And I'm asking the project authors to prepare for the second reading, so there's no warning in the hall, so there's no discussion in the room. Now we're going to move on to the next 2418a bill. Dear colleagues, before I announce my next bill, listen to me carefully. See, there's an idea from the authors that as long as he's prepared for second reading, he'll lose his sense. But there's also a completely logical warning from MPs that we can't vote in general if there's an amendment if there's a warning in the room. I propose a compromise proposal to vote in favour of an accelerated procedure for preparing for second reading so that we can support this issue. There's a combined bill of 2531a, but that's later. Now I'm asking you to make a suggestion to the committee head, listen carefully, to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote, is there support for this proposal in the hall? I can. Please prepare for the vote so that this bill doesn't lose its meaning. And I'm proposing a review of draft Law 3153 on a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. I ask for your support, and I ask you to vote. Please vote 3153, summary procedure. [[17:15:18]] For 214 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I've done the best I can. I'm going to go to the next bill, which is now in the agenda, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity (2418a). The reporter is Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. And there is a request to vote on the bill in favour of a reduced procedure. Please support me, please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[17:16:06]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u68	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, allow me to introduce Bill 2418a. The bill also applies and is included in the bill’s package, which the honourable minister referred to, relates to deregulation; it refers to improving and modernizing State control (control) in the field of economic activity; and increasing the level of mutual trust between operators and public authorities. In fact, this bill is such a kind of step towards reforming the state oversight system, but it is not reform at all. I absolutely agree with my colleagues that the bill that we are voting on today, as well as the moratorium bill that we have just supported with you, is not reform, a comprehensive reform or a change in the state oversight system. It needs a radical change, a replacement of both personality and procedures, and the principles of its functioning. But unfortunately, without such a complex reform, we have to move on with such little gradual steps and this bill, and the following bills are actually bills that have come out of business and are offered business for business. These are bills developed in the framework of an international technical assistance project. There is a lot of interesting money, the bill amends 14 articles of the basic basic law, including improving the system of verification, out-of-plan checks, presupposes the right to act, sanctions on violators, legitimizes the advisory support of business, and also gives public organizations the right to defend the interests of business. So, Your Honor, I'm going to ask you to support this bill. The co-authors are members of almost all factions of Parliament and there is a positive conclusion by the GNEU, to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u69	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A big mistake that didn't support the moratorium bill as a whole, because you know it puts the cross on the moratorium, just as it did on Oxana and I sold the bill on regulatory guillotine. He doesn't want the Supreme Council, he insists he won't give business a chance to breathe freely and give the Cabinet of Ministers time to reform the corrupt control system. That's too bad. The next bill, just presented by Sergei Ivanovich Kiral 2418a, please. He predicts a series of very useful money. It's actually part of that package of three deregulation bills that we just sounded. It includes limitations on the duration and periodicity of scheduled tests. He predicts, what has already been said is extremely important, the principle of the legality of business, the presumption of the legitimacy of business. It softens sanctions against violators who commit violations for the first time, that is, they are virtuous, but somewhere they have been washed clean, so they have to pay the minimum penalty if the offence is committed for the first time. This is an advisory support for business, according to which supervisory authorities are obliged to provide general and individual consultations, and business can refer to these consultations in appropriate processes. It's the right of public organizations to defend the interests of business. This is an extremely important set of measures that we have also worked together in our Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, with the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade and with public organizations. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that a bill can be adopted as a basis for consideration. And, dear fellows, the committee supports such a proposal, we propose to adopt this very important bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u71	Ten seconds, please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u72	In order to complement the second reading to synchronize the standards of those laws that we discussed before, 2531a, in particular. So I urge you to support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Please. Pisarenko Valérie, Rebirth Party. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the "Rebirth" MP will support all the good initiatives that today, including our colleague Victor Halasyuk, is speaking here. And such days as today, economic days, we need to put them into practice. I would like to suggest that Thursday we have an economic day with the Cabinet of Ministers where we can do such good things. But in any matter, we need to "cleanse" political issues and end them. Focus only on economics. Today, people expect us not only to engage in deregulation but also in economic development. To do this, we need to start an industry. These are the kind of cities today. cities like Kharkiv are waiting for a decision not so much to be taken by parliament, but by the Cabinet of Ministers today to support the normal work of enterprises that are now in a neglected state thanks to the not always professional activity of individual ministries. That's why we're going to support these deregulation issues. Moreover, we also expect that today we will get to the issues of industrial parks, and we will support them. And anyway, we want to emphasise that there are a lot of initiatives in the opposition MP groups that are in Parliament. They should also be considered during such economic days. And we will support with you that the country's economy develops, and people can get not only decent wages, but also decent social benefits, which are impossible without the normal development of businesses today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u75	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, 202nd constituency, John Rybak. We are now throwing out this bill and relying on the norms in other legislation on civil aviation State oversight, the issue of State oversight of compliance with nuclear safety requirements. Also in this bill, we are essentially countering environmental safety issues that are essentially fundamental to the health of the Ukrainian nation. So I propose to vote on this bill as a basis, to work thoroughly on the second reading and then to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u77	Thank you. Yes, please, Nechayev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u78	Please give Debenkov your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u79	Thank you. Debenkov, opposition block faction. Of course, the Opposition Block faction will support a very useful legislative initiative – 2418 – which contains a number of very useful business standards when interacting with government authorities in the exercise of state oversight, control in the area of economic activity. Of course, legislative initiatives such as the presumption of the rightfulness of the subject in the event of ambiguous interpretation of the other, one or the other legal acts, certainly, of the position to publish pre-plans, planned verifications, of course, of the position to set maximum time limits for checking both medium, large and small subjects, 30 calendar days per year and 15 calendar days per year respectively, are very positive. Accordingly, by giving more freedom and by making less regulation by public authorities, less supervision by public authorities should lead to greater revitalization and should accordingly reduce any corruption risks arising from the interaction of government authorities, controlling authorities with small, medium or large businesses. Instead, I wanted to point out that, even though a member of the Rebirth Party had talked earlier about the need for economic days to be held, the consideration of relevant bills, of course, that's a very good suggestion. With regard to the implementation of legislative initiatives by the opposition forces, such as the opposition bloc faction, it is also very appropriate. But there was at least a day of opposition before, and now there's no such thing, I'm afraid. Yet, we would like to see the democratic powers heeded the opposition’s proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u80	Yes, please, one minute of Solovay. And we're getting ready to vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Ever since Crooked, huh? Ever since the People's Front. All right, Solovay, Squirrel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u81	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that if you go to Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky or Chernivsky, you will not see any industrial enterprises. But you will see a practically growing city, a city where small and medium-sized businesses are at the core. Why am I asking that question? But because supporting the development of this segment of the economy is crucial to the Ukrainian Parliament today. And I'm surprised why, when I was just looking at the Moratorium Bill, it wasn't, unfortunately, supported in this room. But when I talk about these norms in this bill, I want to focus on just one norm that is crucial to small business. For example, we limit during the year 30 days for big business and 15 days for small business the whole time limit. This is an extremely positive norm for small and medium-sized businesses. That's why I'm talking to all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u82	Ten seconds. Declare your postage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u83	So I'm asking my colleagues to clearly support this bill as a basis. If anyone has any questions, between the first and the second readings, we will correct them and accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u84	Thank you. Curved, one minute. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u85	Good afternoon. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Well, first of all, once again, I'd like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, dear friends, let's go into the hall and vote for some very important legislative initiatives. First of all, today we have a very large number of crimes from different organs. Today, we have a very large number of comments, complaints coming to different committees, not just ours, about the inaction or the commission of various offences by different bodies. Today, we are going to have more than just a day of economic legislation, today is going to be a day of economic relief for business, for small, medium, for big -- for all the business in the country. Dear friends, let us support all legislative initiatives that relate to the support of our country's overall business and development. Thank you. The People's Front faction will definitely vote for these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, all factions have expressed their position. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall. And I'm putting the bill 2418a to a vote. Signal vote, please vote 2418a, please. [[17:29:32]] For 235 Okay, okay. Let's go into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity on the Liberalization of the State Oversight System (2418a) as a basis. Please support the position of the committee, please vote. Please. [[17:30:12]] For 247 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters, welcome to the committee. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to regulate the implementation of separate policies of government oversight in the field of economic activity (2422a). And there's a proposal to consider the simplified procedure. Please support the review of the reduced procedure 2422a. Please support, we vote. [[17:30:59]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u87	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you very much, colleagues, for supporting the first bill. I think we all appreciate how economic bills together mobilize us. The atmosphere of mutual respect is being created, and everyone is willing to work and vote as one. I also support my colleagues ’ offer that such days should be held regularly. As far as the bill is concerned, it goes again into a package of four bills aimed at improving the system of State oversight in the field of economic activity. In particular, the bill plans to unify and harmonize the legislation of Ukraine. In fact, it is about detailing the scope of powers of state oversight authorities, increasing the responsibility for abuse of authority, forming a single regulatory system. That is to say, with changes to a series of different legislative acts, we are putting in place various control and supervision bodies under one basic law, the Law on Principles for State Oversight of Economic Activities. It's basically the same principle when you and I passed the Licensing Act in March this year, which was harmonized with the approaches to granting licenses to the licensing organisation. So on the other hand, I would also like to point out that there have been warnings and observations from individual central executive authorities. In particular, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Justice, and the Statebuilding, which are already working at the Ministry of Economics level, together with the authors of the bill. They can all be counted in the second reading. And also, as well as the warnings made in the conclusion of the Chief Science Export Authority. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill and take another step towards reforming the state oversight system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u88	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knazevich Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! To be honest, this is my first speech in Parliament when I'm a little bit embarrassed. Because so far neither I nor the committee understand how our committee can deal with deregulation. Moreover, none of the legislative acts to which amendments are made are in the subjects of our committee’s knowledge, nor the Code of Masters, nor the Code of Civil Protection, nor any of the laws provided for accordingly. So if you'll excuse me, we haven't found any suitable experts on the committee. And that's why we had to rely on the idea and the scientific expertise, and the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Construction, architecture, and other government bodies. It's a very interesting thing. Initially, all government authorities called on the committee to finalize the bill. But the situation changed yesterday, and we were approached by the Ministry of Economic Development, and according to the Cabinet of Ministers, they asked us to support it as a basis, considering that those bodies that had previously addressed us were not authorized to speak on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers. So we're in the judgment of the Hall, and we don't deny that this bill was considered and supported on a basis. But I take this opportunity to address the presiding officer and ask if this bill is supported as a basis, to deprive our committee of its inequitable powers, and to refer it to the Committee on Enterprise Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. But knowledge is always good, it's an eternal process. Knowledge is an eternal process, it's always positive. We need to exert ourselves, concentrate, and get to know new and new spheres of state life. Dear colleagues, we have listened to the reporters. Is there a need to discuss? There is a need to discuss, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. Please, Olga Cervakova, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u91	Please pass the word to Gregory Sverke.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in all of these laws, which apply to control functions, there is no way that the National Council on Television and Broadcasting is present, and what is relevant to its specificity. I think that the second reading of this question needs to be studied and added to the necessary corrections on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u93	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Efraem Irina. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u94	Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u95	Gennady the Clumsy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u96	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I'd like to point out that the reality of the incomprehensible reasons in some way was that the bill in question was going to go to our profile committee and we would definitely consider it, I'm more than certain, in our committee it would be supported. Today, taking into account this situation, I will repeat what we have in business, the bill is aimed at correcting the position that determines the terms of the subject’s actual receipt of information on the results of the inspection, the basis and order of the complete or partial cessation of business, objects and individual production, the conditions for compensation for damage to legal and physical persons as a result of the illegal application of sanctions. And a number of other points that are quite important and that are needed in general for business today. So given that the Ministry of Economics and the Cabinet of Ministers are supporting this bill today, taking into account that decision, not a committee of profile, which, in principle, I understand, is ready to support it in the first reading, the faction of the People's Front will vote in favour of the bill and proposes to be supported by everyone in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, Mr. Lozová Andri Sergiyovich is referring the word Halasyuk. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u98	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, the Radical Party faction will support all the bills aimed at reducing administrative, regulatory, corruption pressure on business, especially small, medium-sized businesses. Finally, on the last hour of economic day, we reached those bills that allow us to remove excessive pressure from business. Thank God we're here. But I fully agree with the positions that today sounded like excessive pressure was to be taken from business. The artificial bureaucratic barriers that have been created are not to be eliminated. We finally have in Ukraine to move to strategy and tactics of economic victory, to the introduction of investment incentives, to create conditions under which an investor will come to Ukraine. I'm talking about a new tax reform. I'm talking about the laws that today are about stimulating exports, about investing in the Ukrainian industry. So once again, I ask the chairman to make a proposal today to extend the work of the Supreme Council for two hours so that we can adopt those extremely important economic bills that are there. Dear colleagues, let us do our duty. And for the future, if we're planning an economic day, let's keep our word. Because there's nothing worse than making promises that you don't keep. Because people see everything, and people understand whose interests the Supreme Council works for. So let's show how we work in the interests of entrepreneurs, Ukrainian producers and taxpayers at last at the end of a business day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Victor. I'm ready to continue the session even until winter, if I knew there would be voices in the room. At the end of the day, if there are votes, I'll make an offer to continue our work. I now give the floor to Oleni Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u100	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Well, first of all, colleagues, really, I can't help but say that it's completely unclear how this bill ended up in the Committee of Legal Policy. And here I thank you for your frank honest position, Mr. Knazevitch, and please consider my statement as a request to the registration service, to the registration department of the Supreme Council, and to find out who was responsible for the fact that this bill went to an absolute committee that does not have to deal with these issues, worry about them, and is not understood on these issues. Besides, as we said before, we're going to support the "Fatherland" faction of this bill in the first reading. But we stress that, in addition to increasing the responsibility of the control bodies, we expect a clear strategy from the government for reforming the State authorities themselves and for aligning this reform in general with the reform of government and public service. It should be easy to limit control and strengthen the responsibility of the authorities, to carry out systematic reform of each body, to finally make corruption cleans in these bodies, and to recruit public officials for an open competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u101	Thank you. One more minute, Yuri Lewchenko. And please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u102	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. When some speakers here claimed that it was good that all the halls on this vote were united, which is a beautiful economic day, I would like to address the Ukrainian people right now. Because, in my opinion, these mergers of voting that destroy the state, such as this, in fact, do well to show, and who is represented today in the Supreme Council. In the Supreme Council, there is no increase in society, where 90 percent of people work for someone and 10 percent have property. In the Supreme Council, on the contrary, 90 percent of those who own or work for those who own, have their own oligarchic owners, and do not think about the hired employee, do not think about the ordinary Ukrainian, they just think about making it as much easier for the oligarchate as possible. So, you know, society, you're destroying the state now and again, but you don't want to think about it, you don't want to think about it, when an ordinary person now wants to ask for their rights to be distant, so that the state can help it, because it's a direct function of the state, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u103	Thank you. Ten seconds, please complete, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u104	By this vote, you create a situation that the state will not be able to help it. Instead of creating a normal state, not assigning your corrupt godparents, brothers, to these positions rather than normal officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u105	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to regulate the implementation of certain aspects of State oversight in the field of economic activity. So, the 2422a vote, please vote. [[17:43:13]] For 216 I see they haven't made it. Please enter the hall, which is outside the hall, to take up jobs, and read again into the text of the law. Please don't bother the Presidium, Ruslan Knazevitch. You're ready, aren't you? Please, Your Honor, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to regulate the implementation of separate policies of State oversight in the field of economic activity, 2422a on the basis of the Committee's proposal. Please vote. Based on 2422a. Vote. [[17:44:17]] For 229 Decision taken. Welcome to the authors, welcome to the Ministry, welcome to the quality preparation of the bill and ask for a second reading to prepare, and we will make the organizational conclusions of Mr. Ruslan. Let's say, Ruslan, we'll know that your committee doesn't want to know other areas of activity, specifically. Thank you very much, and we're going to move on to the last draft of that package, and I'd like to ask you to look at it quickly, because there isn't much time left. And I'm now looking at the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce arbitrary procedures in the field of external economic activity, 2498a. And I'd like to ask you to consider a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. [[17:45:24]] For 175 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Minister of Economic Development and the trade of Abromavicius Ivaras from the rostrum. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill proposes to remove restrictions on external economic activity that do not benefit the State and are artificial barriers to business in our country. We continue to revoke our licenses. In addition, we suggest that the seven be abolished. Six completely useless licences, such as export-import licences for spirits, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. The turnover of these goods is licensed by other licenses, such as a marketing license, a production licence and a wholesale trade licence. All you have to do to get a license from the Ministry is pay 780 bracelets and write a statement -- and that's it! Regrettably, in previous Governments and in previous ministers, this procedure has been highly bureaucratic. At first, I was specially restrained, and then I took the money for speeding up. In particular, I would like to emphasize that the lifting of these licences does not affect the consumption of excise goods. We have consulted with the representation of public organizations, in particular the rehabilitation package of reforms, the Media Law Institute, the sober Ukraine coalition, the “For Smoke Free of Ukraine”. The experts did not see the risk of lifting the licenses and supported the bill. And the last argument in support of this licensing and cancellation. Last year, the budget for these licences was $229,000 gross, and the Ministry employees who issued such licences had a salary of 200,000 bracelets. Thus, the lifting of licences does not result in budget losses and will contribute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u107	Please, one minute, and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u108	reduce the number of permits for business, simplify customs procedures and improve the investment climate. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this initiative and remove artificial barriers to business development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u109	Thank you. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Victor Halasyuk, to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u110	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the draft Law 2498a, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. We have carefully examined this bill and consider it to be a valid idea. What is behind the fact that such a special type of license has been cancelled? It is based on the fact that existing licensing does not have a fiscal function or a regulatory function, that is, it does not fill, on the one hand, the government budget of Ukraine, and on the other hand, it does not limit, let's say, the access of imported goods to the market. The virtually existing licensing system in this area, it serves exclusively as a corrupt mechanism, when the license costs very little, but it needs to be obtained and thus creates risks of corruption and therefore needs to be corrected. At the same time, the sequential position of the committee is that even when we have reduced the number of licences, we have kept under the Ministry of Economics licensing external economic activity as a whole so that they can regulate export-import operations through the system, including quotas. So we keep this function under the Ministry of Economics, but in these commodity groups that were bugged by the minister, we support the cancellation of export licences and imports. We believe that this will also make it easier to sell this product in retail networks in Ukraine, to make it cheaper for the end consumer. That is why our Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supports this bill in its adoption in the first reading on the basis, and that is also the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two for against, please. Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u112	Please give me the word of Bennady.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u113	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear friends, dear colleagues, please pay attention to this bill. If someone thinks that it can somehow reduce the budget or something, that's not the case at all. Today, there's a license that we're cleaning -- and here I'm fully supporting both the committee's head and our Cabinet of Ministers -- is the removal of the corruption component that is present today, either during export or during import of any of the goods that we have in the bill. So I would like to draw everyone's attention here to the legislator, to every MP: to vote and support the bill in the first reading. And I would also like to point out that the People's Front faction is in favour of facilitating this issue and simplifying the procedures in the direction of deregulation. The People's Front faction will support this issue, so I'm asking the entire room to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u114	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustenk's Block, Antonisztak Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u115	Please pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u116	Thank you. Chicken Maxim, Dnipropetrovsk, Peter Dustenk's Block. Dear friends, dear fellow national MPs! Well, first of all, I want to point out that this law wasn't considered on the profile committee that the Tax and Customs Policy Committee is appearing on. And how the bill came to this very committee, Mr. Halasyuk, I don't know, because these issues, which are violated in this bill, are very important and are also relevant to the Customs Code of Ukraine. For example, this bill allows for customs processing of tobacco raw materials, cigarette paper and so on. This is the first time. Secondly, this bill really creates very big and serious risks. The authors argue that the cancellation of the export/import licence will increase the budget's revenue from taxes and customs payments. But that's not really true, because everyone knows that VAT and export excises have zero rates, and the income tax and VAT on imports always have a small amount from this payer circle. So you can only expect revenue from customs payments, but unfortunately there are no calculations under this bill. And the last. Experts from all over Ukraine say that we now have almost 40 percent of this area in the shadows, with the adoption of this bill there is a very serious threat to the uncontrolled circulation of alcohol in wholesalers. Friends, there is no way to vote for this law in general today. I suggest in the first reading that you consider it and pass it on to the Second Committee on Tax and Customs Policy for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u117	Thank you. Hipko Andry Fedorovich, Rebirth. Please pass the word to the German Leonid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our faction will definitely support this bill as a front. Let me give you a few more words on today’s agenda. But I think no one doubts that Europe is not just the protection of the rights of non-traditional sexual orientation. Europe is above all modern, including technological innovation. Today, we have a number of drafts for electric cars, cars that don't use gasoline, cars that don't pollute air, cars that are often much cheaper and more accessible to the general citizen of our country. So I would like to support the proposal of our colleague, Mr. Halasyuk, to continue the parliamentary session until we consider these two important bills for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u119	Thank you. Please, Cobbs, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u120	Mikhail Kobtsev, Harikov. We have been approached by representatives of the alcohol industry on several occasions by the Tax Committee in order to revoke this senseless license. Indeed, it merely duplicates wholesale and retail sales of liqueurs. And we already had a bill. But when we learned that Mr. Abromavichus's Ministry was preparing such a bill, we did not introduce it. However, I would like to point out that this is necessary for the second review to be carried out in a tax committee. I therefore call upon you to accept and refer to the Tax Committee for consideration on second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u121	Thank you. One more minute, Fish, and we'll go to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, your honors. Fisherman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, you know, before we consider this bill, here is where the voters and I have consulted even today. And we have a wonderful understanding that this is a completely lobbyist bill. Because if we want to withdraw the licenses from alcohol, from tobacco, that means we want to destroy the Ukrainian nation. On the contrary, the price of tobacco and alcohol should rise and the budget should be increased. If today the 29 million that the minister has shown us that the coming will be reduced by 29 million, there is nowhere to go, let's give this 29 million to the Chernobyl area in the Putil region, and help people there. Because today the government is creating a biosphere reserve from all over the area. And he doesn't look at the roads or anything at all, and they forgot about people completely. We don't support it, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u123	Thank you. Not yet. One minute, Radical Party, Easy. And we vote. Members of Parliament, distinguished colleagues, we come to the hall. Oleg Lazko is responsibly taking off his speech and urging everyone to vote. Final word, 1 minute, Minister, please turn it on. And I'd like you to take your jobs. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u124	Colleagues! Licenses are completely meaningless, they are completely duplicated by other licenses that exist. With regard to wholesale trade, with regard to production and in relation to retail trade. Mr. Rybak, I tell you, what 29 million are you talking about? I said 229 thousand bracelets, not 29 million. That's all that comes out of these licenses. They were pointless and corrupt with previous heads of the Ministry. Therefore, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u125	Thank you. I think it's Putilovsky. Dear colleagues, we vote. I am voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of permit procedures in the field of external economic activity 2498a. Signal voting on the ground. Please vote. We concentrate, we focus and we vote by signal, we vote by signal, please. [[17:58:53]] For 222 Thank you, there is potential. Potential fits, takes space. And I'm asking you to vote on the bill now. There's a vote coming, Mr. Andrew! There's a vote coming. The discussion is over, the vote is coming, I'm sorry. If you want to give me something, I need you to come in and pass it on. I can't hear it that far. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce arbitrary procedures in the field of external economic activity 2498a as a basis. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:59:58]] For 232 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters of the bill, and welcome to the minister with the bills that have been prepared. And on the right of a leader, I continue to work for 15 minutes at the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u126	Dear fellow national MPs! You and I have the 2317th draft of the Act amending article 119 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, and listen to what we are talking about: workers of private entrepreneurs appointed to military service. This is a very important question, and I would like to ask your permission, and I would like to ask your permission to consider it now and to vote. Is there no objection? It's an offer from the Self-Help faction, Taras Shepherd. And we'll move on, if you don't mind, we can go back to work. It's up to you. I mean, come on. Colleagues, 2317a. Yeah, let's move on, let's work, I'll continue the meeting. Please, 2317a, Taras Shepherd, consider the brief procedure. There's literally one line. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please support 2317a. [[18:01:27]] For 212 Please, Taras Shepherd. Please. Then Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, I won't be taking up time for long, and the essence of the bill is simple enough. We in the Labour Code have protected the rights of the mobilized, who are now in the East protecting our state in order to prevent them from being released. But we have foreseen institutions and enterprises regardless of the form of ownership. From this list came people who work from the simplifieds in our private businesses, with a limit of up to 10 people. By doing so, we want to protect their rights so that they cannot be released. And there's another initiative. Mrs. Kugel, where she's offering tax. This is going to be the next bill. The request for support in the first and in general also supported the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, Sophia Denisov, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u129	It's just me. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in order for us to adopt this bill as a basis and in general there are some amendments. So I'm asking you very much, we've agreed with the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, with the author. And I'm asking you very much to hear the editorial that I'm going to read, and this should be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I'm reading it. The title of the bill is as follows: "To amend article 119 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on workers appointed for military service during special period mobilization." That's a name. This is part of the first project. First, in the third and fourth sections of article 119 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (Reports of the Supreme Council of South Africa in 1971, appendix 50 of article 375), replace the words “in which they worked at the time of the appeal irrespective of subordination and form of ownership” with the words “in farms, agricultural production cooperatives irrespective of subordination and form of ownership, and in the natural persons of entrepreneurs in which they worked at the time of the appeal”. Third. Part one of chapter III, "The End of the Bill" is to be written in such an edition. First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. I would like you to support me on the basis and in general in an editorial with the same rights as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the basis and in general the draft law with the rights declared by the committee's chairman in accordance with the committee's decision. Is there no objection? Colleagues, please support on the basis of a total of 2317a, taking into account the position of the committee. Vote? I'm asking everyone to support this project. Please, 2317a, we vote, colleagues, as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:04:52]] For 232 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Yeah, we got it now. People's deputies here say it's very important to consider the issue of electric cars. I can't say it's a common position or not. Dear colleagues, we have two laws of 1674. You're going to be defined, I'm going to put it to a vote. And 1912. So there's a proposal now, if you're going to support it, that we're going to look at it in a second reading and in general about electric cars. Take your seats and identify yourself. Identify yourself, colleagues, I'm asking. I'll continue for 15 minutes. Please vote. It's about electric cars. This is a question of the Ukrainian people's deputies, if they are determined, we will vote. [[18:05:52]] For 196 There are no votes needed. Next law in the order of the day 2617, second reading, honorary colleagues. Draft Law 2617 on Amendments. Dear colleagues, 2757. I understand correctly, the next one? Please, 2757 National MP, head of the Ivanchuk Committee. Let's get this straight. One, Firemark.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u131	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u132	Not counted 3 Ruslan Demchak. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 4th row. It's 2757. 4 The People's Deputy, Kobtsev Mihaylov. Don't insist. 5th, Victoria the Bird. Don't insist. All right, we've been through all the paperwork, Andry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u133	Please vote. Dear National Deputies! You remember the history in this room, the decline in the quorum for stockholder societies is the same bill, just for farm societies. Where the state has a stake, the quorum takes place 50 plus 1 share. So we're lowering 60 plus 1 as for stockholder societies, we're also lowering it for farm societies. It's a very simple law, because we were in such a hurry at the time about stock companies that we didn't change the Master's. We have enterprises where the state has 50 or more shares in the state-owned enterprise, this farm company, but it can't hold stockholders' congregations. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-12-m1.u134	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. We went through the amendments, Your Honor, I'll put you to a vote in a signal, a signal vote, 2757, please take your seats. Dear colleagues! 2757, signal vote, please identify yourself, accepted in second reading and in general. Signal. [[18:09:16]] For 158. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 18 hours 10 minutes, distinguished colleagues, announcing a meeting of the evening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all for your work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll start the morning session. Thank you, Your Honor.
