ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! Attention! Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Now, it's not simple, but it's effective consultation on those bills that we need to discuss and adopt today. And in connection with those consultations, the session starts at five o'clock, at 17:00. Therefore, I would like to discuss draft legislation in the working groups. To discuss between the deputies and at 17:00, if Mr. Lazko unlocks the rostrum, we will begin our effective and fruitful work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. The last consultations have just ended. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Faction leaders please invite MPs. We'll be able to start our session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're starting our work. I'd like to ask your attention, dear colleagues. Dear National MPs, on February 27, 2015, in Moscow, a known opposition politician, a true Democrat and a friend of Ukraine Boris Yuhimovich Niemtsova were murdered. Please, fellow believers, honor the memory of this brilliant, courageous man for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, national deputies, before we register and begin our next session of Parliament, I would like to give my word. Should we open it? Please turn on the glade system, we'll register. [[17:29:35]] 329 deputies registered. Dear colleagues, before I pass the word to those in the rostrum, I want you. I would like to make a suggestion that we will be considering today the issue of order by a special procedure agreed upon by the factions of the coalition. It is proposed that the draft legislation included in the agenda of the daily extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the consideration of other bills that will be included in this plenary session in the agenda of the 2nd session in such a special summary procedure: the report of the subject of the legislative initiative, the report of the committee, statements by representatives from factions and groups, and the decision-making of the bill. We held committee meetings, factions and everything. I ask you to support this proposal, and we now have to vote, please prepare, and we will make it a separate decision. Please vote, Your Honor, and support the order of consideration that was consistent with the factions of the coalition. Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to support such an examination of the order of the day as a special one. Please vote. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[17:31:03]] For 223 I'm asking you more carefully, Your Honor. It's a procedural question. Please, once again, concentrate, dear colleagues. Vote, Your Honor, please. Please vote on the order in which these issues are dealt with in the agenda, please support all factions. [[17:31:29]] For 231 We can make separate decisions on how to deal with matters. And now the Ukrainian Parliament has testified. Dear colleagues! Before we begin the discussion, I ask that the decision be drawn up in a separate order. I'm commissioning this decision to form a separate decision. And I give the floor to Oleg Laszko, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! We are meeting today for the next meeting of the Supreme Council, where there are laws that are being considered to obtain a loan from the International Monetary Fund to stabilize the currency exchange rate, to stabilize the economic situation. But no loan from the International Monetary Fund and any other international organization will help us as long as the National Bank is managed by the marauders who are "rolling" the currency! As a result of the activities of the National Bank’s management, our national currency is undervalued! As a result of the activities of Mrs. Hontareva, head of the National Bank, millions of Ukrainian citizens have lost their savings. Deprived wages, undervalued pensions. Small and medium - size businesses are being destroyed. People don't have the ability to take credit. Jobs are closing down. Millions of people are being deprived of their means of livelihood! And not paying attention to it, not reacting, cheating on war, cheating on economic problems is a lie, and it's a lie. And that's why the Radical Party faction is blocking this highest rostrum and Freedom, and the non-factionals are blocking this highest parliamentary rostrum with one requirement -- the President of Ukraine has to immediately submit an application for the release of Hontareva from the post of Head of the National Bank. What the National Bank's leadership is doing today is stealing during the war. Hundreds of billions of dollars have been refinanced. People get their pensions, their wages, they get thinner at the same time, the oligarchs get rich, and they put billions of dollars in their pockets. People can't buy pills in pharmacies, prices in stores go up, it's all the responsibility of the National Bank, but at the drop in the exchange rate, 10 dollars a dollar is what they earn. The President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is to intervene without delay in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council for the discharge of the Head of the National Bank. The Radical Party faction and other non-important, patriotic Ukrainian national deputies require us to take a decision to address the President and demand the resignation of the Head of the National Bank. We will not unlock this rostrum until Parliament has made the necessary decisions until it has finally begun to be responsible for its criminal acts. Moreover, we demand not only the resignation of the Head of the National Bank but also the criminal responsibility of all those who have underestimated the bracelet who have robbed millions of Ukrainian citizens. We're on our own! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u4	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, here's the deal. Your request has just been recorded under the transcript. I'll sign it, I'll send it to the President of Ukraine. And we talked about with the government on Friday to consider the financial and economic bloc of Nazbank and to make a proper decision by the Ukrainian Parliament on human resources assessment, well, recommendations on human resources decisions that can be considered. So these two proposals are, they're fixed. I give a protocol commission to carry out these decisions accordingly. On Friday, I will address these questions, and I will now address your request accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u5	Vladimir Borisovich, we have agreed with you that we will vote by parliament on Friday. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u6	I'm on it. We don't have to vote on Friday. I gave the commission, and it will be done with the device. What's wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u7	[[Unheard]] I want Parliament to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u8	What decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u9	We agreed that [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u10	So this question doesn't need a vote. A machine was assigned to consider this matter on Friday. All right, it's already been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u11	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u12	There is a proposal to vote on this decision, but I don't know why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u13	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, my commission, which I have given and will be carried out, to confirm by Parliament's vote. Is there a need? Look, colleagues. We will now support the voting of the Head's mandate. A report, a report by the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on social, or who else they can add, on the socio-economic situation in the country. Please vote. Friday, Friday. Friday, Friday. Please vote on Friday. [[17:38:44]] For 292 We will consider this on Friday, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 350 deputies registered in the hall. Parliament's meeting is open, declared open. I'm going to put another proposal to the vote -- to work until the issue of order is exhausted. Keep going. Please vote and vote. We're working until we're out of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u15	Please vote. Before the issue of order is exhausted, please support me, colleagues. [[17:39:30.]] For 239. Decision taken. I'd like to ask very carefully. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to the floor of the President's representative in Parliament, Stepan Kube. I'd like a moment of your attention, please, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow MPs! President of Ukraine's decree to assign Hope to Savchenko the title of "The Hero of Ukraine": "For the inviolability of civil courage, I hereby order the sacrificial service of the Ukrainian people: to assign the title "The Hero of Ukraine" to the Order of the Golden Star, Savchenko Nadej Viktorovni. President Peter Poshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Please sit down, dear fellows. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Please, about Hope Savchenko, please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I think that, after the President's decree has been announced, Parliament should at least verbally address the Hero of Ukraine, the pilot of Savchenko, with our general concern for the end of hunger, because we need such heroes alive. I think Hope will be able to hear the general will of the Ukrainian Parliament, which is expressed in recognition of us, that it has done everything in its power to raise to the world the problem of Russian aggression, Russian occupation, Russian lawlessness and lawlessness, the violation of all international standards. But Nadia Savchenko needs us alive. Nadia, you need to be here in Parliament, in the European Parliament to fight the Russian invader, alive, not dead. We're all waiting for you, Nadia. And please, today you have destroyed the Russian occupying power -- the Kremlin is the one who has managed, and everything is now being resolved here in Parliament. And we're waiting for our deputy here because of the end of hunger and the continuation of the struggle in another form.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal, not an offer, but a request from our colleague on behalf of the entire Ukrainian Parliament to Hope Savchenko. I think if we vote on this now, and testify that we are all turning, and personally everyone to hope that it will stop starving, and save lives, and continue fighting in the walls and the Ukrainian Parliament, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Let's vote, dear fellows. [[17:43:42]] For 329 Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Everyone, please concentrate. Registration number 2213, draft Law amending articles 165 and 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. He will report to the Minister of Finance, Jarezko. Dear colleagues, in the work of our meeting, our Parliament, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, welcome him, with the members of the government. [[Congrats]] I invite Arsenius Petrovich to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished coalition partners! Thank you very much for the fruitful work you and I have done over the past two weeks in order to adopt the next package of complex but correct economic reforms in Ukraine. When it's often said that it's a package that's needed for the International Monetary Fund, I'll let myself deny it. The International Monetary Fund does not need packages. The country needs reforms, the country needs changes that will enable it to stabilize the economic and financial situation in the country, which will allow it to continue to finance the Ukrainian army and to spend those costs, including social costs, to at least ensure minimum living standards for Ukrainian citizens. We've worked together on 17 drafts for your consideration. I hope that the lion's share of them, and more precisely, will be accepted by almost all at today's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When working with coalition factions, a number of issues that were in our coalition partners were removed and very many proposals from the MPs were accepted by the government from the parliamentary factions. And after each bill, we're going to report on how we found the agreed position. We are now adopting bills that are called the previous conditions for Ukraine to receive financial assistance. I would like to remind you that last year, with the past Parliament and in part with this House, you and I have already passed the adoption of a series of reform packages. And that's why in 2014, Ukraine received $9 billion, of which $14 billion was paid to the external lenders of the loans that they took. But this enabled Ukraine not to go into default and continue to work with our foreign investors and with foreign partners. I'd like to point out in particular that the external government guaranteed debt in the same period last year, that by the time we took the government, was $72 billion, now we've reduced by almost $4 billion the debt of the Ukrainian state. According to the new economic aid package, this package provides financial assistance for four years, a so-called Extended Fund Facility Facility Facility. International Monetary Fund, Enhanced Financing. This package provides for several tranches and the total amount of such assistance to $25 billion, of which $17.5 billion is direct financial assistance, and more specifically loans, which are very low interest rates and are used directly by the International Monetary Fund. In addition, $7.5 billion is a financial contribution from the Great Seven countries, their contributions and a number of other countries that will enable us to stabilize the financial and economic situation. I want to point out right now that the loans that Ukraine receives do not go to consumption. We cannot or do not have the right and no one is lending to increase pensions, pay and finance the army, the Armed Forces is the responsibility of the government, that is the responsibility of the state. The main ways in which this credit resource can be used are: first, to pay off external debt in order for Ukraine to carry out economic and structural reforms and to maintain trust among investors; secondly, it goes to the gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine. The repurchase of gold reserves provides an opportunity to stabilize the national monetary unit, as today's most important challenge in the Ukrainian economy is the fall in the value of the national monetary unit, which entails inflation, price increases. And that goes into the inflationary spiral that has to be stopped. It is objective that the fall of the national monetary unit has to do with military factors as well as with factors of complete mistrust in the country’s economy. People go to banks, people take deposits, and they try to change Ukrainian currency at any rate. Our task with you now is to make appropriate change packages, increase the country's gold reserves, restore confidence in the National Bank and the banking system, and gradually stabilize the economic situation. The adoption of this package and the adoption of the decision of the International Monetary Fund will enable us to obtain more than just loans to repay external debt or to replenish gold reserves. This will allow us to unlock three and a half billion dollars of direct investment in Ukraine's economy in the current year. I'm talking about the amounts of money that will come from the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, the European Investment Bank, other international financial institutions that will go to road construction, to modernize the Ukrainian gas transport system, to the Bortnich aeration station, to housing and utility facilities, to energy efficiency in the country: to replace boilers, to warm houses, to do that. What makes it possible to start a real economy. Dear Members of Parliament, we are now in such a situation that we do not have simple and easy decisions. And these decisions will enable the country to stabilize the situation. And it's gradually starting to grow in 2016. Thanks again to all factions for their difficult but proper work in preparing and adopting these laws. We are aware that a number of these laws have complex social perceptions. But endurance and the right steps will enable us to progress over the course of the year both in stability and in economic growth and in jobs as well as in wages. We call on coalition partners quickly and quickly to make the right decisions. If we vote on all the bills today, we will immediately inform our foreign partners in order to get the Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund to meet as soon as possible. I can honestly tell you that our enemies are not sleeping, including in international financial institutions, and everything is being done to break the program between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. Not directly through intermediaries, but there are signals that Ukraine is not ready for such a program. Military uncertainty and conflict in the East are a serious barrier to the adoption of such a program. This is what those countries who do not support Ukraine believe. As far as our Western partners are concerned, they are all alone. And now it's all about our political will. From the political will to continue to shoulder responsibility, to carry out reforms, and to move forward without ceasing. I'm convinced that 11 numbers after we take decisions today from the IMF Board of Directors will meet and make a positive decision for Ukraine. It's not the end, it's just the beginning. This is just the beginning of the gradual continuation of reforms, the progressive adoption of laws, as well as our 2014 reform plan, which was fully implemented, and this is confirmed by both the International Monetary Fund and all our foreign partners. We will do the same in 2015 for the future of our country. And so, Mr. Head and members of the coalition, I very much ask you to go to the substantive consideration of all the bills that are included in the agenda and will be included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u21	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Please, as we agreed, a special procedure today will be taken to address all matters of the day. Please report to the Minister of Finance, Natalia Jaresko. I think we can get out of here. And then the committee head will report. Then from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u22	Honourable MPs, honourable heads, distinguished Prime Minister. Our main fiscal tasks are to reduce the tax burden on business and reduce subsidies for inefficient state-owned enterprises, expand the tax base and withdraw business wages from the shadow sector of the economy. But the changes that we have made to this bill are for humanitarian purposes. We offer to exempt individuals from income tax, charitable contributions to organizations that help people who have been forced to leave their homes through war. The list of charities will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, we propose to amend the Tax Code on Natural Gas. The expected policy changes, the regulation of natural gas prices, include the reduction of cross-subsidisation of energy and utilities, the gradual liberalisation of tariffs, and the provision of direct budget support to the most vulnerable populations. This entails the need to eliminate part of the surplus revenue to be earned by gas companies as a result of a reduction in cross-subsidization. To this end, for those gas companies in Ukraine, where a large part of the state owns, we're talking about the Crushing Company, and we're proposing to increase the rent from 20 percent to 70 percent. This will allow the State budget to be included in 2015 and additional revenues of 9 billion dollars, which will be directed towards direct support for low-income households, that is, for the benefit of Ukrainian families that will need help. In addition, it will increase the net income of gas companies that will be used for further development of the industry. We also propose that the lowering factor of 0.55 rent deliveries be restored for the extracted gas that is being implemented for industry. This is for the drilling industry that was introduced into the state register of oil and gas wells after August 1, 2014. For 2 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u23	Please finish, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u24	Within 2 years from the date of entry into the register. This step will allow a balance to be struck between the fiscal needs of the state budget of Ukraine and the need to stimulate new gas projects in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, the head of the profile committee, Roman Nasirov. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u26	Dear Sir, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, your fellow officers! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meetings on February 27 and March 2, discussed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, registration number 2213, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for the exemption from taxes on the income of natural persons, charities, their branches and representations under the established Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by a list of those who are entitled to provide non-taxable benefits to citizens living or residing in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation, as well as in the Autonomous Republic of Crime, or who have been forced to leave the residence of the population where an anti-terrorist operation has been carried out and who have been taken into account in the social protection bodies of the population of Ukraine. The bill also envisages an increase in the wage rate from 20 to 70 percent per capita per natural gas. At the same time, when the gas is extracted from the newly introduced wells after 1 August 2014 and registered in the state register of oil and gas wells within 2 years from the date of entry into the register, a lower coefficient of 0.55 will be applied. In addition, a proposal has been made to increase the income of the budget based on the correction of the coefficient applied to the rate of rent for the mining of iron ore and to increase the rate of rent for the transit transport of ammonia. Following a discussion of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 2213 to include in the agenda of the day session and to accept it as a basis and as a whole, including an appropriate addition to it, which was presented to the committee, which was handed over to the factions and posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u27	Thank you. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u28	I also request that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy prepare a text that is accepted and signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on technical and legal rights. I'm asking you to back me up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u29	Thank you. Please log in from the factions. From factions and groups. In principle, we have spoken many of these questions — that is, so that we do not walk in the second circle. Anyone has a question, please. Vote? 2213. [[B in m in s a l in]] "Paternity." Please, Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u30	Dear Prime Minister! We will support this bill, we have a consensus on that. But considering that all the changes were prepared very quickly by the committee, paragraph 1.7 is a document that came from a committee of profile, tax, and morning. It considered that the tax exemption for military revenue, which is not included in the calculation of the total monthly, annual tax income, is for the 4th chapter of the Tax Code. There are many such points that really do not need to be taxed by the military congregation, there are many social things. But there, including taxes, consider dividends, securities transactions, currency transactions, and transactions in colored metals. I would ask you very much right now, this is chapter 165, chapter 4, and I would like to ask that we take this into account and leave this part of the tax to the military because it is subject to such taxation. I'm counting the articles: 165.1.51 is a currency transaction. For example, 165.1.18 is dividends, so if we're already lowering and betting pensions by the military assembly, and pensions, and everything else, we don't have the right not to tax these incomes. Check it out, please, and it'll confirm it, and we'll have to rule it out and count it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u31	Please, Arsen Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u32	Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to go to the protocol, maybe there's something on the committee, something that's not quite so clear, the government's position is the next one, everything is taxed and dividends, and everything that's on dividends is not changing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u33	Only amounts that are not taxed and dividends taxed are exempt from the military congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u34	All right, we're going to find out. Please, Yuri Boyko. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In general, I think this government has confused priorities. Instead of trying to stabilize the economy, all forces have been cut off to receive IMF's new loan. They don't realize that no loan will save an unworkable economy. The government's proposed budget changes and laws do not answer the basic question of how to protect the most vulnerable populations? Today's biggest threat is the lack of pension and salary indexation and a sharp increase in tariffs. To provide our pensioners with minimum pension indexation, it takes 30 billion dollars a year. This money can be found by stopping the military conflict and by directing the budget of the war to index pensions. We are firmly opposed to raising tariffs for gas and heat that requires IMF. 50 billion dollars to be collected from citizens' pockets is the price for that decision. In this situation, I don't think the Supreme Council has a position. At first, Parliament was an adjunct to the National Security Council. And now he's actively serving the IMF mission. How can 40 million people be held hostage to the currency tranche that the government is waiting for as a panacea from all problems? At the same time, a private bank paid 19 billion dollars a year. And there are many such examples. Our conclusion is that. Both the budget and the laws need to be reviewed and provided for the indexation of pensions, wages at the expense of the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u36	Please, radical party, last name? Artemenko? Artemenko, please. National MP Artemenko, Radical Party. Then there's Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The proposed bill, taking into account the lowering factor 0.55, refers to a non-existent standard. The non-existent norm is the State Register of Oil and Gas wells, which has not existed, and I have a very strong belief that it will not exist in the future. So I'm asking you to make an amendment to the voice and put in a comparative table this downward coefficient as follows: "Extracting natural gas reserves that are not subject to the condition set out in paragraph 252.24 of this article, from new drilled wells and recovered from a decommissioning non-acting fund, including during research and industrial exploitation, geological exploration, which are put into operation by means of acts of exploitation that date not earlier than 1.01.2013. The coefficient shall be applied within two years of the validity of this law." Please support and leave the lowering factor 0.55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u38	Please hand over this amendment. It's on paper for you. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help, then Tetjana Blackwall, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u39	The Honourable Prime Minister, the Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, the Self-Help faction draws the attention of coalition colleagues and parliamentary colleagues, that the changes made to the Tax Code, in particular, were able to raise the rent on iron ore, to cancel the declining coefficient, to raise the rent for the transport of ammonia, which was quite low, to about 60 cents, now cannot be less than $2.4. This will provide additional revenue to the state budget. But we have a warning that the Cabinet of Ministers, the government, have calculated fairly low revenues expected from the state budget from these two tax payments. So we're going to control here, and we're going to look at the results of the reporting periods, and what the revenue is really going to provide from these two extra taxes. Next. What she said, I want to deny what the leader of the Fatherland faction in the military assembly has said. The committee’s logic was very simple, the military congregation should not be taxed on things that are not taxed on the income of individuals. When it comes to these, interest amounts, it's the amount of income that the taxpayer gets in terms of interest on government securities, i.e. on GDP. There's no royalty there, no dividends as dividends from which there's no company. This is not included in the annual, monthly tax income according to chapter IV where the tax on the income of natural persons is concerned. It's pretty simple. There they simply did not correctly interpret these provisions of the law. Therefore, this bill should be supported on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u41	Here is a member of the Opposition Block, Mr. Yuri Boyko, who wanted to help the government fill the state budget. And I want to give him some advice on how he can do the best he can. Mr. Yuri Boyko, you have some advice on how you can help the government fill the state budget. It is known that during the previous years during President Yanukovich and the government of Azarov, Mr. Boyko ruled the Naftogaz of Ukraine. So this Naftogaz of Ukraine released a few billion dollars of gas to the companies of Kurchenk. The companies of Kurchenk did not calculate the gas. Next, the same Naftogaz Ukraine, under the leadership of the people of Mr. Yuri Boyko, released gas to the companies of Firtash, including Stirole, for several billion dollars. These companies were not accounted for by the Naftogaz of Ukraine. Accordingly, I recommend that Mr. Boyke recommend to his colleague Mr. Bakulina to write an appearance with due diligence. Mr. Boyke also wrote an appearance with due authority, to be sent to prison. The court will decide their crimes before the state of Ukraine, apply the confiscation of property, and in any way the state budget of Ukraine will be filled. That's my advice, Mr. Boyko. And only after you have thus helped the government of Ukraine to fill the budget will you help the people of Ukraine, only then do you have the right to make any recommendations from this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, I think we can generalize the proposals that have been made and vote. Please generalize the Prime Minister. One minute, pay attention! Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, in order for there to be no discrepancies in the interpretation of what is written, I ask for a transcript, and in technical legal work, once again, I note that all income from dividend securities transactions, interest, royalty, currency transactions are taxed on the income of natural persons, full stop. So that we don't have this discussion, all of it, with the military congregation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u44	All right, Your Honor, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Prepared? I am voting on the basis and in general with the rights that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has issued on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 165, 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (Registration No. 2213) and in general, please. I told you about that. Please vote. With the rights announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please vote. And in the Committee's version. [[18:10:44]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. The law is being brought to your attention. Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (Registration No. 2209) Reporting from Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. 2209, please, Minister. He will report to the Committee's Vice-President for Budget Affairs, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u45	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! The draft Law on amending the Budget Code proposes a whole series of editorial rights, but there are more fundamental things. First of all, it's transferred to funding from the government budget of five specialized schools. The question of the redistribution of medical and educational subsidies is being addressed, according to the Cabinet of Ministers, in agreement with the Committee on Budgets. For these subsidies, a standard is established that, if the current costs are fully secured and the debt is not available, they can also be used for capital costs. The mechanism for recalculating these funds is also clarified. It is determined that it will be accomplished twice a month. In addition, it is suggested that if appropriate subsidies for rural, rural and district financing are transferred from the district budget, such subsidies are provided in terms of funding at appropriate costs, no less than in the previous reporting period. And it also addresses the issue of the financing mechanism for public authorities when they are formed during this current fiscal year. The committee also supports the changes agreed upon, the corrections and proposals made by the committee that were voted on. The request is also supported by taking into account the position of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, head of the committee. Dear colleagues, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u47	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! You're invited! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the draft Law on amending the budget code number 2209, which was declared by the Government primarily necessary for the implementation of the proposed changes to the State budget for 2015. At the same time, the Committee's work has improved the provisions of the bill to harmonize with the current rules of the Budget Code, and in view of the practice of applying new inter-budget relations and new transfer policies in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance, a number of provisions have been added to the bill. The main ones are the ability to budget villages, villages, cities for the maintenance of socio-cultural facilities at the expense of transfers from the district budget, which are set in terms of no less well-established local self-government budgets in 2014. And also on the basis of their own incomes of the corresponding budgets. Allowing local councils to direct the costs of education subsidies and subsidies to prepare workers for capital costs, provided that the current costs are fully met and that there is no outstanding debt for protected expenses. By standardizing the State Budget Act on the characteristics of the distribution and redistribution of educational medical subsidies, the proposals proposed by the Committee will ensure consistency of the legal norms of budgetary legislation and contribute to the rational use of budgetary resources. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee adopted the following decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council draft Law 2209, as a result of its first reading, to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law taking into account the proposals made by the Committee in its letter to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u48	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u49	Bill 2209 is to be signed if it is to be adopted by the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text of the bill, which relates to an approved committee decision on the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the 2209 discussion, there were no objections, and all adjustments and changes were agreed upon. So I think we can vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the decision of the committee that took into account the decisions of all the factions that have considered the issue. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote. Please. Prepare to vote, 2209. Prepare to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you have a 2209 wish? One minute, please, Ivan Krulko, one minute. Please listen carefully, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u51	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians! The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of Bill 2209 because it has already succeeded in this option, which we will vote on, to include an amendment to the Fatherland faction in order to ensure that the expenditure on local budgets, rural budgets, villages and district cities is not lower than in 2014. Because the law in force included a completely unjust norm. But this is just the first stage. We're going to insist that we include in our own taxes villages and villages 25 percent of the taxes on the income of individuals, because now the budgets of villages and villages are completely abandoned, no self-financing. That's why we're going to make sure that the bills passed by the Fatherland faction are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u52	Thank you. I would like to point out that it was the initiative of all factions to support this particular editorial: both self-help, and Peter Prashenko's Block, and the People's Front, and the Radical Party. It was a joint proposal, and it was discussed, and it was announced. Well, for justice's sake. Please, Your Honor, please, Yuri Lewchenko of the non-factional. Then. From the factions are still willing to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u53	We don't have a vote. Yuri Lewchenko. Victor Krivenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. Well, first of all, thank the chairman for remembering that we have the Supreme Council. And even though he sometimes mentions other deputies besides the coalition, it's at least a moment, yes. But in fact, if we're talking about this bill, if we're talking about supporting this project, it's going back to the budgetary mechanisms of the U.S.R.R. law on the ODSR budget system and continuing to work on manual controls, as the predecessors loved. If, perhaps, the hall did not notice, the primary option was to allow the Cabinet to redistribute the medical subsidy, the educational subsidy, the subsidy for the preparation of the labour force. And now it's been replaced by "according to the characteristics of the distribution of these subsidies in the State Budget Act." That is, every time we adopt a new grant allocation policy, there will be no forecasting, no clear rules, as Arsenija Petrovich or any other new prime minister will want to distribute something, and so will be distributed. That's what you're proposing to approve right now. That's why we're definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, (register No. 2209), please prepare. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. There is a proposal to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals that have just been announced. I ask you to prepare and vote as a basis and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[18:19:51]] For 277 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Thank you. The next question, my fellow Members, is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance (registration number 2212). He will report to the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenko. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u56	Vladimir Borisovich, there is a request. I'm going to immediately report here three bills: 2211 and 2210, because this is the regulation of pension insurance, including officials of income and assembly and officials of the supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u58	So I would like to immediately say that, of course, honourable colleagues, the bill is unforgivable, and the main motivation for this is, of course, the state of the pension system, the state of the pension fund. Today, in order to even pay our pensions at the right time in such a meager way that they are now, which do not seem to satisfy society and do not satisfy us as a government, we need to have an additional 80 billion dollars today. And obviously, on the one hand, yes, the question of the legalization of the economy stands at number one today in the agenda, and at the same time, we've obviously come to the point where we have to cut some of the expenses of the Pension Fund. And we're proposing that we step out of the social justice principles of order, especially with regard to special pensions, special pension insurance, which applies to categories of special pensioners, such as judges, prosecutors, national deputies, officials and so on. I want to say that, compared to the bill that the government has introduced, some changes have taken place. The head of the Social Policy Committee is going to talk about them, but I'd like to announce some basic things. In particular, the bill foresees a proposal to take into account the proposal and to make the issue of the limitation of pensions for temporary retirees: by 1 January 2016, rather than constantly, as proposed by the bill. It was also decided to remove the bill's rules on freezing the average monthly wage in 2012, 2013 and 2014. This means that it will allow employment pensions to be granted in accordance with existing legislation. There will be no restrictions on this in today’s version of the law. Also, taking into account the Committee's proposals, such as the Disability Committee, the appropriate decisions taken and the appropriate decision agreed not to limit pensions for such categories of citizens are invalids I and II groups, group III persons with disabilities, participants in hostilities, including ATOs, members of families of the dead, dead participants in hostilities. I also made a decision, and this is what I want to say to Anatoly Sergeiovich Matvienko, and I confirm that the decision made is clear in the law that, at the request of a person after being released from work, he is reinstated according to his wish the size of that pension, which was limited to a period of work. So there's not going to be any reduction in pension payments for these people. It is also proposed that the length of work in agricultural production for women who have raised 5 or more children and who retire regardless of age and working age should be maintained. That is, for many young women, this question will not apply. We also supported it. The government supports the proposal to limit pensions to working judges and also to set maximum pensions and termination benefits, in line with the 10 minimum retirements for judges. Let me remind you, this standard exists today for all categories of pensioners. The only category for which there were no pension restrictions was the category of judges. Today it's us. This contradiction and this injustice are taken into account. Also on the proposals of the government and the proposals of the National Deputies and Committees, it has been decided not to provide for the limitation of pensions for members of the military — members of the military and superior forces — as well as employees of the Ministry of Defence, the Chief Intelligence Directorate, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, all the forces involved today in the conduct of the relevant anti-terrorist operation. And I also want to say that we've made a compromise, a joint compromise, and we've done the only right thing, in my opinion, that the pension for working retirees will not be reduced for people whose pension is one and a half times the minimum for those who have lost their jobs. So a 15 percent reduction in pensions is not going to apply to people who get less than $1,423 in pensions today. So it's obvious that on the basis of this bill we have proven that we can find common ground on this bill, not a simple bill, and this joint decision of the coalition and the government I would like to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u59	Thank you, Minister. Please, the head of the profile committee is Ludmila Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister. You know, if it wasn't as interesting a situation as it is with this bill right now. The bill was filed by the Ministry of Finance and we worked a lot with the Ministry of Finance, then started working with the Pension Fund, then with the Ministry of Social Policy. And very much everyone, very grateful for the fact that, after all, the national MPs who are part of the committee have made proposals that are now being read by the Minister of Social Policy. What's changed. It has changed that all of these measures that have been proposed forever to ensure that 85 percent of the pension restrictions on working pensioners and not pay to those who are currently in office, including the national deputies, are once different, both the prosecutor and the court, not to pay at all. It's a temporary step to get our people to understand that now is a war, and we all need to unite, including any resources, to ensure our victory. And the government here has supported all the proposals made by the Committee and the National Deputies. Once again, the formula for calculating pensions does not change. And this standard has been removed. The temporary setting, these problems carry until January 1st. I would like to clarify one standard that many national deputies have now approached me. As far as the pension is concerned, what will be paid to these people, who will be free of their jobs if they do still get a pension. If a person gets a pension now and gets a salary, for example, a national salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u61	Please don't limit it, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u62	So just to be clear, some national MPs don't want to support this law, and that's important. So the people's deputy stays in his place of employment, he won't get a pension, he'll get a salary. Then, when he does realize that he needs to put his mandate and go home and get a pension, the size of that pension will be exactly what he has now. So his pension will be paid in full in terms of what he is now in. And the government supports that. I'd also like to emphasize. Yes, there will be a limit of 10 living minimums for all citizens. Judges, prosecutors, national MPs, everyone will be the limit they now have. How do they differ from the metallurgy, from the miners that the limit is now? As far as special pensions are concerned, it is decided that by June 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing a bill that abolishes all special pensions and will be the only rule on pension. If this does not happen, on June 1, if such a bill is not passed, all such specialties will be abolished and all persons will be granted pensions under the general rules. I realize that this is a very important decision and a difficult decision for the people’s deputies, including for seniors. But we think that we have the only enemy, and we need to defeat this enemy. Thank you. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u64	I ask for the support of the people's deputies for this bill of Law 2212 on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u65	Dear colleagues. I'll ask you to sign up for factions and groups, and I'll give you my word. Please come from factions and groups. Please, "Occupy Block", Natala Kraljevska. Give me a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u66	Respectable colleagues. If it were not so sad, it would be funny that the bill would enter into force on 1 April 2015. Tell us what our pensioners, coal miners, Afghans, teachers and doctors have done before Parliament today, to the Government, to the women, why it is these people who have decided to be victims of the crisis today. We are well aware of the difficult situation in the economy, and we understand very well how to find resources today. But be brave, if you lack the strength to raise social standards today and give people pensions and wages, at least don’t take the last piece of bread from people. Every week, you submit bills to Parliament that take away people's pensions, take away their salaries, reduce people's social standards. See what happens to prices, see what happens to the course. What do you offer on tariffs? You're paralyzing these decisions today with a completely socio-economic system in the country. Therefore, we call upon all members of the people, we do not need to adopt this bill today, we do not allow people today to give a penny of money and take away the last thing they have today. I therefore believe that our task is to reform the economy. But it is unacceptable to reform the economy by eliminating social protection. It is not possible today to reduce pensions, raise retirement age and categorize people. Now, there are coal miners under Parliament's buildings, coal miners, people who want to pay them their wages and their benefits. That's why I'm addressing the President of the Supreme Council. Turn on the broadcast for the people. These people are worthy of respect and are worthy of their money today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u67	Oleg Barn, Peter Dustock's Block, then Oleg Barrezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u68	Honourable deputies and Ukrainian people! You know, this reform is very good, but it's not fully protected. This pension reform they want to make is a simple population. First of all, a judge who had a salary of 20,000 dollars and went to work somewhere other than government work, less. He won't go to a government job in one and a half thousand dollars. Isn't it? A lawyer's job is going to go no less than the same salary, but it's going to be saved with a high salary of 15-20 thousand, which he's going to have on a non-state job and a pension of about 8-7 thousand dollars. So the first sentence is that all who work for pensioners do not pay any categories, instead raise a minimum pension for this difference, allowing 25 years of retirement to be given a place for young people. Save pensions only for ATOs, disabled people. One second. Maximum pensions, which allow up to ten untaxed minimum wages for special wages, including special credits to the home country, are abolished. The maximum pension from the minimum should not be 10-11 times, but 6-5. The difference is to increase minimum pensions! And then there will be order in the state. If we start putting up with each other, let us all put up with it! And especially during this crisis period. And now for those who want to bring peace to the state. You've started a war, you're regional. Please form a battalion called "Shit" to the east. Stay there for three months, come. Then we'll talk! Be healthy! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Head! That's the law. The Honourable Deputies! This law is one of the most difficult laws we have discussed and adopted during these two weeks. This law really takes money from people. And the first line of the people sitting on the left side of my back, my dear colleagues, your policy has thrown the country into a whirlwind of war! [[Applause]] Your policy has led to the poverty of people! Today, as a coalition, we take on the responsibility of taking on the aggression of people. But, gentlemen, we have tried and done a lot. In particular, these restrictions on pensions and pensioners’ salaries are temporary until the end of this year. And that's the important thing that we've achieved. The other one. We, along with the coalition, cancelled the specialties and made the Cabinet of Ministers think about it -- judges, prosecutors and others. Dear colleagues, but I want to use it. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to take my last chance. I'm asking you instead of one and a half today to go into concessions and count the 15 percent of the two taxed minimums that we asked you to do. That's 1,900 dollars, that's just 400 dollars more. This will be an important concession and help for those living on minimum pensions and wages. We will be grateful for this tremendous social concession, which will not bring much to the budget. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Humil, People's Front. "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs, you know, I think we all understand that the government has not submitted this bill from a good life and from a bad situation, and not from having a good situation in our economy, it has been a necessary step. I would like to point out that the restrictions that are being imposed now are temporary restrictions by the end of this year. But I would like to stress the changes that have been made, namely the abolition of special pensions that prosecutors, judges who have passed sentences, including literally recently politically motivated sentences. I also want to say that we need to clean up and, in principle, the mechanisms that allow us to set up special pensions. And I think it's going to be our next step to draft a bill that will, in principle, make it impossible to assign special pensions as such. I'd like to call the entire room to a vote. The People's Front will support and vote in favour of this bill in both the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u73	Thank you. National MP Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u74	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the bill currently under consideration in this room is an extremely important, extremely sensitive, extremely social bill. I would like first of all to thank the government for being able to discuss this bill carefully. The first government to hear, to discuss, to demand, and to make concessions. But, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, this is not enough. We've done a lot in the process of two weeks of work. There are two key things for the Radical Party that we insist on. First, in 23 years, an unfair judicial system was built in Ukraine when a simple worker works his entire life, earns a thousand dollars of pension, mud, and so - called personal pensioners sit in soft chairs and earn tens of thousands. At the suggestion of the Radical Party faction, we insist that we abolish the special order of retirement for officials, deputies, prosecutors, judges, and everyone else. Leave only a special order for military personnel and scientists. The government has taken us to a meeting and is proposing that we put this order in place since June 1st. Arsenius Petrovich, we insist that this order be instituted simultaneously for everyone and since April 1. We take 15 percent of the pension away from people, let's cancel personal pensions right away, there's nothing to delay until June 1st. And secondly, what the Radical Party faction insists on. We strongly insist on removing from the bill the rule on increasing the retirement age for those who have the right to benefit from the pension. For women, for miners, for milkmaids, for pigs, for mechanics, for teachers, for doctors, and so on. Why us?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u75	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u76	Why do we insist on this standard? All the calculations show that the economic effect is zero. But the political upheaval is crazy. And so we suggest we go back to looking at this standard when we stabilize the economic situation, when we restore the economy, when people have jobs, when they have a decent pension, then let them retire later. Today we cannot allow it because it is a social injustice in relation to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u77	Finish! Thank you. Please, Economic Development, Andrew Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u78	Andrew Shipko, 35 constituency, Dnipropetrovska, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I've got a lot of calls from the employees and the mining and metallurgical unions of the Dnipropetrovska mining complex. What do people write us? You listen. They call this law anti-national and anti-constitutional. What do they write? They write: In no way do you support the Cabinet of Ministers in this law, in the pursuit of the further poverty of our people. The people of Ukraine raised and adopted the Dignity Revolution, hoping to improve their constitutional rights and freedoms. What do we have to do with this law? Firstly, this is contrary to 22 articles of the Constitution of our State, which rules prohibit both the scope and content of existing pension rights. But what's important is that we cancel special pensions, but the main thing is that they increase the rate of retirement of workers in businesses with harmful working conditions. I am convinced that the deficit of the Pension Fund should not be eliminated by those who receive a meager pension and who lose their health to harmful production. In years of independence, economic conditions, working conditions, and life expectancy have not improved. What, our pensioners have become healthier?Oh, my God! Is medical care more accessible?Oh, my God! I demand and appeal to you, this is the semi-majority room, you'll come to the districts, you'll look into the eyes of the people! They are miners, miners, metallurgists, milkmaids, those who work on earth, hands where they smell of bread! Don't support this bill! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u79	Please, Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, first of all, it's kind of sad to hear from the Opposition Block about pensions, wages, especially after they've raised women's retirement age from 55 to 60. I think all the women in the country have felt this concern. Hence, their concern is evident. But at the same time, the Parenthood Party, in general, is against this approach to balancing the budget when, not by the incomes that the richest people in the country receive, for example, dividend taxes, but by the way, the pension cuts are trying to correct the balance of the budget. In our view, this is virtually unacceptable, this law provides for an increase of 5 years of retirement for women on March 1, 2015. As well as an increase of 5 years of insurance, and for individual occupations and special internships for those who are entitled to a pension on account of working in harmful and particularly harmful conditions. What are we doing? That won't give you a penny of the budget. But this completely destroys these categories of workers. In addition, a 15 - percent reduction in the pension for working pensioners is being made. Pensioners today go to work, not for the good that they actually have at home, but for the fact that they cannot live on that poor pension. And that's why we argue that we can balance the budget by introducing dividend tax -- by introducing other taxes on wealthy people. But not by reducing pensions for working retirees, especially when they leave 10 minimum for all officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u81	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u82	Ten living minimums are left for officials, and the working pensioners take the last cents. The Fatherland faction will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u83	Thank you, Your Honor. From the non-fractional one. Please, Mikhail Golovko. There's a question. And then it's Matthew's question, and we'll answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u84	Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u85	One minute, please, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u86	On account of this bill, I'd like to say one thing. Today, indeed, Ukrainian society. People who are simple sufferer. So do we. I'm surprised when we're here, for example. Imagine an ordinary woman who has more than 50 years of order there. 55 years old, and she's a cleaning lady, she gets, like, a half a thousand dollars of pension or a thousand dollars of pension, and she fakes it, and now we want to take that 15 percent away from her. This is wrong. Let's look for additional sources of revenue, let's tax the oligarchs, let's enter the luxury tax. Why do we have to raise the retirement age, why do we have to take in the working ordinary Ukrainians these coins that are important at such a difficult time right now in the Ukrainian state. So we're finally proposing, let's tax the oligarchs, let the oligarchs share with the needy ranks of the population of Ukraine. And that's why we're not going to uphold this law, considering it unfair and what's antisocial and discriminatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor. The last of the non-fractionals. One minute, Vladimir Parasuk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we're not joking here right now. We're discussing a serious law. And you don't have to run around the hall. If you think about people, sit down and think. And now for pensions. Arsenius Petrovich, now living in the country for $30 is unrealistic. If you do not believe, try this once. I remember watching TV with my grandmother in the previous Supreme Council, and you were yelling at those who couldn’t raise their retirement age, and now you’re getting taller! Are you taking their steps? That's why I'm talking to all normal conscious people not to support this bill once. You don't have to clap there! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm telling you again, we need to sit down and reform the pension reform normally. People on the street live, and now they're miserable. And you have to understand that, not walk around the hall, shake your questions, decide your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we risk it? It will take into account your offer, as far as I understand. I mean Matvienka. Please, Arsenius Petrovich, please. We can draw the conclusion, the risk under this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, dear friends and coalition partners! We're all very well aware that it's a simple law, it's true, it's a law that foresees changing social standards and it's a law that provides for substantial changes in pension insurance. As part of our lengthy discussions, you and I have almost reached agreement. I'd like to start with those requirements that were originally from our foreign creditors, and they are, by the way, very reasonable. The first and key requirement was to raise the retirement age from 60 to 65. There was a clear position, the first to declare it to the President. Next, the minister of profile is the social policy and the minister of finance. Next, other factions, including Self-Help, and Fatherland. Thanks to your and our common position, we have succeeded in removing the key requirement that our foreign partners have set -- raising the retirement age from 60 to 65, not happening, not lying to the people of Ukraine! Second, this is a moment of truth, of honourable colleagues, of those who have come into the coalition, so the situation in the country must divide the responsibility for the country's fate. We realize that it would be better to vote for the law, not to change pension standards, but to raise pensions, to reduce retirement age, to pay everyone and everything. Twenty years of lying, and now there's nothing to pay the pension. We went to make, too, your proposal, and it was an offer, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u91	Don't limit yourself, let me say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u92	Other coalition partners: limit this law over a year. And we went to that and we said, we're adopting this law for 2015. Third. Our respectable friends and self-help partners have absolutely legitimately asked the question of raising to two minimum levels of subsistence for disabled persons the possibility of not reducing pensions. You asked two of us, we didn't do it at all. supported this proposal. So I'm asking you in public right now: let's get together at a figure of one and a half minimum living standards for people who are incapacitated. This covers 90 percent of all pensioners. I realize, dear friends, that people's problems are very big: prices are rising, prices are growing. But let's hear it now: we're not going to save the situation now with some arithmetical action. We have to do everything we can to stabilize the economy, start making money. We went to all the tax proposals, the rent, to fill the income part of the budget. And I hope that we can, dear coalition brothers, speed up living standards not since December 1st, but a little earlier. And it's going to be a real and right step to give people more money to survive. That's why, dear colleagues, I call on the coalition. We had a very difficult negotiation. The merit of political parties and factions is that we have achieved the insurmountability of retirement age. The merit is that we have achieved the absence of a once-in-a-lifetime promotion of five years at once and bringing everyone together in line with the common system. With these legislative changes, we allow people to determine whether they work in public service or in retirement. We're giving these legislative changes the possibility that if a person later retires after the state service, he'll get the level of pension that he could get from a valid system, and he's listed. It's going to be higher -- it's going to get higher, but not lower than it's going to get now when it's in the service at the same time, and it's getting a pension. And this will be reflected in the end positions. I know it's not the best law. We don't have any good decisions with you right now. There will be good decisions when we carry out reforms and stabilize the situation in the country; when we win, when we stop the war, when we overcome corruption, when we don't have a fight in the parliamentary room among coalition partners: who wants to be whiter, and everyone else wants to smell bad. That's not right. [[Applause]] I very much ask the honourable coalition partners to vote, this is all equal to the responsibility of the government. Get it all on the Prime Minister! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u93	I mean, respectable colleagues, there's an offer. There is a proposal to vote from all partners. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a proposal to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Calm down, please. Calm down! Please, a minute out of place is easy. One minute out of place, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, a radical party. Arseny Petrovich! Arsenius Petrovich, I address you. I have a request: support the proposal of the Radical Party faction to abolish all special pensions for officials from the moment this law becomes effective as of April 1, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko, please 30 seconds and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u96	No, a minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u97	Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u98	Well, first of all, I'd like the words that the government says to be true. The law provides for an increase in the retirement age for women and men who work under harmful and particularly harmful conditions. This is unacceptable! Second, there's a 15 percent reduction in pensions for working pensioners who live on the last copies that don't have any more bread. And not only in public service, but also in the common people. And thirdly, in order to implement these totally demeaning pension proposals, it only takes one and a half billion dollars. I'm telling you the responsible thing is that if we put 10, not 5 percent of the dividend tax, we're going to cover three times the expenses if we cancel out the pension fund now. Don't vote for this law, it's against people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, Arseny Petrovich, Arseny Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, please sum it up and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u100	Dear friends, I would like to repeat my request. The law is not simple, we've worked it out, as we can work it out, we've done everything we can and cannot. Including your position. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I also have a request for you, we have provided in law for a new bill on the accumulation system to be submitted to Parliament by June 1st in order to transfer everyone to the general pension system. If you insist on doing so. We won't make it, I don't want to fool you, we won't be able to work and agree on it by April 1. Let's make the next decision. Okay, not June 1st, let's do May 1st, we'll try to do it faster. And I'm asking you then, we're going to go for a month and work together on this bill. And for the rest. Dear friends, if we're talking about social justice, then I want to understand what social justice is. This is when, including a large number of people who should not retire within the time limit set by law, they are 45 years old, 47 years old. And those who work their whole lives and go out at 60 are what's worse? That's why I'm asking. We've only found the right approach. And I ask you to support everyone in the adoption of this bill. And I ask you not to deliberately disrupt the country's reform agenda as one of the factions of the coalition. This is irresponsible in relation to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u101	Arsenius Petrovich, your honor, I ask you to calm down. Dear friends, please take your seats. Everyone had the opportunity to express themselves. There will be a final proposal by the Prime Minister, but please, under the transcript, please, Arseni Petrovich. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Prepare for the vote, colleagues, better. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u102	I just want to make sure that if you say the word right now, it's responsible. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u103	Please, please. Dear colleagues, look, we've been working all day yesterday, factions, groups of deputies, committees have been looking into these issues. But there are no simple decisions here, no one will find them. And that's understandable. So in an appropriate manner, we need a consolidated position today of the deputies who are in this room. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u104	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, the government under the transcript states that by May 1st the bill will be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u105	Thank you. By May 1, the law will be submitted to Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich, by May 1st, by May 1st, I understand he will be served? All right, you got it. 30 seconds, come on, Oleg Lazko, fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u106	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, dear colleagues, I want to remind you of what we agreed with you on a coalition council. I suggest that it be written under the transcript. The government asked for time to make a special law. Thus, it is proposed that, as agreed on by the coalition council, if by May 1, the Supreme Council does not adopt the Government's Law on the transition to a general order for all, then by May 1, all special categories of pensions will be received, transferred to the general pension regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u107	Let me finish, please. "Crime," for the word "except."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u108	In addition to military personnel and scientists. All those who have received special pensions for 23 years — officials, prosecutors, judges, deputies — receive a general pension regime, credits. Do you accept? Like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u109	Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u110	Again, Oleg Valeriyovich. We have a committee decision written down: "to prepare and submit by 1 June 2015 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Assignment of All Pensions, including Special, On General Grounds." I propose to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council by 1 May 2015 a draft law on the assignment of pensions. Next. It's already a question of acceptance of this question to Parliament, the sooner you accept it. And that's going to encourage us all to move on to the general system. (Noise in the hall) Oleg Valeriyovich, we agreed to pass. Because we only need two months to develop it, we went for it. So let's write it the next way. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u111	Arsenius Petrovich, make this offer, finish your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u112	Oleg, we don't know if you'll accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, take your seats. We will now vote. One minute, we're going to finally adopt technical remedies and that's it. To make sure that the question is taken into account. One more minute. In fact, the point is that if these standards don't come into force on May 1, then all the special benefits go out. (Noise in the hall) Dear colleagues. I'm asking all the national deputies to take a seat in the hall. Please, Your Honor, Arsenius Petrovich, make the final offer, please, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u114	I want to clarify the proposal again. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u115	Take your seats, we'll vote now, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u116	We're ready to go to prepare by May 1st, to submit a draft Law on a Cumulative System that allows everyone to be balanced. Retirement. Next. This will be considered objectively in Parliament for at least two months. We suggest that by July 1st, such a bill should be adopted. Next. If such a bill is not adopted by Parliament, then all so - called special pensions are automatically abolished.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u117	Yeah. Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u118	This will encourage Parliament to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u119	Roger that, copy that. Please, I'm begging you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance (2212) – registration number, based on the Committee's decision and the Prime Minister's proposal, in particular the last one on the abolition of special benefits from 1st. From July 1st, they will be repealed if this law is not passed by Parliament. The solution. Vote please, Your Honor. I would like to vote on the basis and in general in favour of the committee's decision with the Prime Minister's proposals. You heard them, they were bugged. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. [[19:06:46]] For-164
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u120	164. What's wrong? Once again, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u121	Yuri Vitaliovich, let's get away from the factions, please. Lucenko! I'll leave the factions. A minute away from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, of course this bill is unforgivable. None of us here have any desire to take even one bracelet from the common people, but the fact is that without a packet, I'm stressing the entire package introduced by the government, there's a financial collapse in two weeks. If someone has forgotten exchange rates and today is looking for a raise, you have to say, the Kremlin's plan: to organize in March a rebellion based on the social dissatisfaction of people. It will be created by the lack of international financial assistance. And this will be the direct help of Putin! I urge you to stop populism and work for the future of this country! Not for today's ratings, but for tomorrow's strong Ukraine to vote for!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u123	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. Then there's Julia Timoshenko, one minute. And then the "cushion," a minute. Then there's the Beresuk, the minute, Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Oleg Lazko. It's about populism. We don't do populism. But at the same time, when you're in a robot who's earned a thousand dollars of pension, you take 15 percent away, and you leave government officials with a special pension order, it's totally wrong! That's why I'm addressing the Prime Minister, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, we've always supported you. You know you can count on us. For us, the highest value is the interests of the state and the interests of the coalition. I want you to hear me. Cancel the special regime for all officials! And we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u125	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u126	The four times we spent in the negotiations were clear to all that it was the most difficult law. Prime Minister, I'm addressing you. I suggested to you this morning, close up two topics. Take off the question of the so - called raising of retirement age for those working in mines, in metallurgical factories, in chemical enterprises for women. This is the first question that is urgent! And we can negotiate. And we're partners in the IMF, and other international organizations are going to understand. The second question is urgent. There can be no limit for some — 10 minimum — and for others, with a minimum pension, a minimum wage of 15 percent. So do what you have to do, self-help, and the Fatherland faction, and the Radical Party, and most of the factions of the Peter Prashenko Block, enter the limit of about 3,000 -- that's 2,000,840 bracelets, of which you have no right to take 15 percent, of all others, off the overpence. This question will be removed and we can go back to this question, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar, the National Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u128	Perhaps no one likes to vote for such bills. But you have to understand the level of responsibility at all, because it's not just one law that can be removed and not voted out, it's a package. And it depends directly on whether Ukraine gets a loan from the International Monetary Fund today. Yes, indeed, our international partners asked why, when they borrow money, in each euro 28 cents, there for example, a German taxpayer, and this German taxpayer retires at 65 years of age. And in fact, the government was able to convince us that we have a lower standard of living and other stories. Yeah. So let's think about whether we're going to be grateful to Ukrainian citizens if we're going to dump this package and be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u129	Colleagues, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u130	And we're going to maintain all economic stability, because that depends on the loan, and that depends on the exchange rate and the state of the Ukrainian economy, and we need to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, just a minute. Calm down, colleagues, take your seats. Calm down, sit down. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u132	Dear Mrs. Sumar, you forgot to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who ruled the state for 20 years were prime ministers, ministers. Today we all fight for every citizen and his bracelet. But today’s situation is not today. And today’s vote for this unpopular law is everyone’s moral responsibility. You're thinking whether I'm happy to vote or not. Let's not be silly. I propose, Prime Minister, and we've been offering you this for four days. And these two amendments, which don't cost the budget much, go to the Radical Party, the Timoshenko block, the Fatherland, I'm sorry, Self-Help and Coalition. And we will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u133	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u134	The coalition will take this unpopular step, and it's unpopular anyway. We're asking you to come along. And then the responsibility will be divided. But this responsibility rests with those who have ruled this country for 20 years, and be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please. Arseny Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I don't think we have a night of coaxing here, do we? You can get me whatever you want. Say those that have $25 billion. If you have 25 billion you bring in without laws, I'll be the first to support all initiatives, raise pensions, pay. There's no other way out of this right now. We did everything we could and could not even do. The main question is not to raise retirement age, you've all done it, and we've done it, we've done it. The main question of applying this law is for 2015 only, you wanted it, and we did it. The main question is not to tax pensions and not to take any extra income from Ukrainian soldiers, military personnel, and those who protect the country, is what you wanted, and we did it. The main question is not to raise once by 5 years and by 5 years of age and by seniors, and you wanted to do it, and we did it. Basic The question of not taxing those citizens' incomes that are no more than, not less than a thousand 500 dollars, you said we accepted it. Well, guys, there's a limit to compromise. I can agree to anything you say. Well, 25 billion don't want the ones they give. They say: Look at the way in our countries. Why do you think the package you knocked out is better than the living conditions that are in other parts of the world? That's why I'm proposing next. You want to vote, vote. You don't want to vote, don't vote. We've gone to all kinds of conditions, colleagues! There's nowhere else to go! And that is why I very much ask all members of Parliament, especially those to whom the Opposition Block applauds. Because they have a task, in the Opposition Block, one: the worse for the country, the better for the former corrupters and the more viable. Don't worry about it, people! Let's vote, come back. Oleg Valeriyovich, o’kay, not 1 May, not 1 July, 1 June, unless the law is passed, we cancel all pensions special and put a dot, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u137	By June 1st, if not accepted. All right, colleagues, let's know what, listen up. There's a moment. One minute! One minute, please. Please prepare, we must return, we must return to the matter, fellow believers. We need to get back to that question. We'll come back, I'll give you my word. Colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come back! Come back! During. Let's go back, I'll give you my word, colleagues. I'm asking you to go back to this question, it's extremely responsible, we can't just react to it. Please vote on question 2212. Please. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. To return to this bill. [[19:16:57]] For 232 Guys, 232, we're back. Now, please, I think we need to take a position on this. Anatoly Matvienko, please ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u138	Arsenius Petrovich, what you have commented on as a result of our discussion, and what you have commented on is the fourth position of the Final Positions, as opposed to each other, is not correlated. It's about what. Today, the person is right, we understand the hardship, or the pension, or the work of the public service. The one who retired from the civil service today has a pension of 8,000 dollars. And whoever stays for 3,000 jobs after retirement doesn't have that pension. Our adopting a new law will be in the new law. But the machine that's being offered is just absurdly illogical and incomprehensible to many -- why they don't vote. What is automatic? But I don't know the answer. There was no such legislation, automatically. So explain this position because it's a ten or maybe two votes, and then let me vote, for me personally it's not understood. So what we agreed, and what will be done in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, colleagues. Arseny Petrovich, there is something to comment on. Let's take another minute from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u140	Give the minister the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u141	Anatoly Sergiyovich, I repeat, don't mix two questions now -- what Oleg Valeriyovich says, and what we talked about, and so do you. In the bill, we're going to write out, we're going to consult again, we're going to do technical legal work, we're going to make sure that those people who choose to stay on salary and temporarily refuse to retire will get their old pension bill after retirement, or maybe the new pension bill will be higher. So to choose is to choose, and we wrote it either or-or it could be his choice of retirement, or it could be the main thing that's bigger. Another issue, Oleg Valeriyovich, speaks of the only principles of pension. No one will cancel the last number, it is clearly written that if we don't introduce the bill by June 1st, and it won't be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u143	So that's when everyone cancels their special pensions. But since June 1st. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u144	Of course, colleagues. That's an offer, thank you. Colleagues from factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't insult me, colleagues. It's all right, isn't It's been said! Is that the right thing to do? It's fine. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote again. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Please. Please. Prepare to vote again. Please, national deputies, prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? Are you ready for the vote? We're ready. So 2212, based on and in general, taking into account the decisions of the committee and the last proposals that have just been made regarding Prime Minister Rosenck and Prime Minister Yatsenuk. Counted? Counted? [[B in m in s a l in]] Counted? June 1st. Oleg Valeriyovich, shall we vote? June 1st. June 1st already counted, dear colleagues. Please vote on the basis and generally according to my proposal. Let's support it. This is a responsible decision, colleagues. It's a responsible decision, I understand that someone may not like it. But what about it? Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote, colleagues. Vote and support. We don't have much choice. [[19:21:54]] For 221 The card didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again, come back. On your return, please vote, colleagues. Please vote in favour, and I ask your support, Your Honor. Please support the return. Please vote. Let's go back, fellows. We're going back. Let's go back, colleagues. [[19:22:25]] For 232 I'm putting it on the ground as a whole (2212) with those proposals that I've previously announced. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Let's back up, dear fellows. On the basis and in general (2212), taking into account the committee’s proposals and what was announced by Minister Rosenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[19:22:44]] For 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Come on, colleagues. Colleagues, colleagues, attention! I ask everyone to take your seats now, please take your seats, distinguished national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going back. Please take your seats. To return, to return to consideration. Please, dear colleagues, return to consideration, return to consideration. All questions were taken into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] Back to consideration, once again, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Back to the hearing, dear colleagues. Let's go back again, let's go back. Colleagues, please come back. [[19:23:34]] For 230 Now we're back - 230. We have votes to vote on this bill for the committee's decision on the basis of both the proposals and the proposals that have been made. Let's vote it again. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready? Ready? Vote. Let's settle down, fellows. On the basis and overall, in the decision of the committee and the proposals that Prime Minister Rosenck and Prime Minister Yatsenuk made, on the basis of and in general. Let's support this extremely responsible decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u145	Colleagues, we. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[19:24:18]] For 208 [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go back again. [[B in m in s a l in]] We already have experience. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, I'm calling a 15-minute recess. Faction leaders and the Coalition Council, please come to my office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u146	Whoever's in the buffet is going up to the hall to take their jobs. The coalition council was able to agree on all the points of discussion. We will now vote for an extremely important law. And I very much ask that we be able to get all the faction leaders, group leaders to call their deputies and take jobs. I'm asking everyone in the cafeteria to come into the hall. In a few minutes, as soon as we get together, we will move on to an important vote. We're already in the hall. I'm asking you to organize your factions, invite them to the hall. I very much ask the factions to invite their factions into the hall to continue their work. A separate request for self-help is to go into the hall and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u147	The country’s distinguished national deputies concluded a meeting with the leaders of the coalition factions. There are appropriate decisions. I think it's now. All national deputies, please take your seats again. He will inform the Prime Minister of the positions and suggestions that have been made. And I think it will allow us to make a decision. Faction leaders please invite the national deputies to the hall. Secretariat, please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We can start our work. Please. Let's make a signal vote, let's see how many national MPs are in the hall while they come in. 309 cards, signal vote. Let's make a signal vote, fellow citizens, to understand how many national deputies are in the hall. Please prepare for the signal vote, colleagues. Signal! Please. The signal vote, the esteemed colleagues of the national MPs. Please give me a signal vote. Get ready, take your seats. Take your seats. Faction leaders, please invite your deputies to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, there will be a signal vote. Anyone who has not yet entered the hall, please come in and take up jobs for the difficult but necessary work for our country. Who else is in the towers? Heads of factions, call the deputies to the hall. Why don't you come down from the towers and we'll take up jobs?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we must return to question 2212. And now I'm going to make an offer to return to the issue of registration number 2212. Vote please, Your Honor. To return. Prepare to vote. Get ready. Colleagues, for returning to question 2212. Please vote. To return. Now let's see if there is. There are, dear fellows, 240 votes for the return. We voted, yes. Please welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. I ask you to listen carefully to Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u150	Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies and the best pro-European coalition in the world. We have just completed negotiations in the cabinet of the best speaker of Parliament, of all times and of the peoples, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. I'd like, with your permission, to answer all the questions that now concern the Ukrainian national MPs and dispel the myths. And all the clarifications. Oleg Valeriyovich, whatever you say will be done. The first myth. That the law raises the retirement age from 60 to 65. It's a lie. The retirement age doesn't rise. The second myth is that there is a special internship for harmful manufacturing. Special training doesn't go up. The third myth is that the overall insurance system rises once every five years. That's not true. For 10 years, only for the 10th year will the final decision come into effect in the general insurance system. And this is a joint decision of four factions of the coalition. Fifth. This law does not apply to the reduction of pensions for nursing or cleaning women or for those with low living standards. Anyone who receives a 1,500 - dollar pension is not subject to this law. Now, pay attention! What do I associate with a certain reluctance to vote for the bill? Because this law takes away the opportunity of prosecutors, judges and other "honest" people to receive both wages and pensions. We're against it. So I'm asking you to take into account the proposals made by the distinguished Oleg Valeriovich, who were put forward by the 4th factions of the coalition. This is Self-Help, this is Peter Poshenko's Block, this is the People's Front, and Oleg Lachka's Radical Party, which is what the Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy confirmed, we vote, and dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u151	And the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u152	Colleagues, I put to the vote, registration draft number 2212 on the basis and as a whole in the Committee's version, taking into account the proposals announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine as well as by the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenk. Please vote on the basis and in general, colleagues. Please support, on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general [[20:13:15]] For 238. Decision taken. The parliamentary responsibility test has been passed, dear colleagues. There were many myths that had just been broken. And I think everyone realized that. Let's move on, dear fellows. Bill No. 2211. Draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine. Report to the Minister of Finance. The head of the committee will report. 2211. I think I'm going to give the floor directly to the committee head, he's going to announce everything that's been discussed. If there's an addition to the minister, you will. Please, Roman. Roman Nasirov, head of the profile committee. Overall, there were no suggestions. 2211 then 2210. Please. Please stand in the rostrum, and we will vote in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u153	Colleagues, please, have a proposal to consider 2210 and 11 together, because these are the same bills under the Customs and Tax Code, but I'm going to start with 2211. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy, held on 28 February and 2 March, reviewed the Government's draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code for Officials of the Supervisory Authorities, registration number 2211 of 23.02. In general, this bill is related to a bill that we have just considered 2212, as well as changes to the State budget for Ukraine for 2015, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 2147, which with a package of other bills aimed at stabilising the state's financial situation, we are currently considering. In particular, this bill aims to create conditions to stabilize the financial situation of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The bill proposes the suspension of the payment of pensions to officials of the supervisory authorities during their work in these bodies, changes to article 344, and the cancellation of the payment of one - time assistance at the expense of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund and the further withdrawal of this sum from the families responsible in the event of death. The cancellation of the payment of one - time assistance is also justified by the fact that similar rules have already been introduced into a number of special laws of Ukraine, the Forest Code of Ukraine, the State Executive, the Prosecutor’s Office, and others. The Committee, taking into account the proposals made by the Council of the Coalition of Deputies, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine concerning officials of the supervisory authorities, number 2211, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and to include in order and. Yeah. To include in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to accept as a basis, and in general, as the Law of Ukraine, by setting a time limit for the operation of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u154	Please don't limit yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u155	Having set the deadline for the amendments envisaged by this bill, from April 1st to December 31st 2015 inclusive. We also ask, if this bill is adopted, to entrust our committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out its technical and legal work. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had no objection, he was agreed. Yes. He was in agreement. Yeah? There's a question. Stay in the rostrum. Please, one minute, Sergey Sobolev. And please prepare for the vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u157	"Paternity," we think it's a bill that works in the spirit of withdrawing the pension benefits that were given at the time for special categories, in this case two categories -- those that work on customs and in tax services. We support this bill as "Fatherland" and we believe it should be adopted in the first reading and in general. This bill nullifies the possibility of unfairly paying pensions for different categories of citizens depending on their positions. That's why our faction will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u158	Thank you. I can say that the faction of the Peter Poshenko Block also supports this bill, the People's Front also supports this bill, the Radical Party of Lachka also supports the bill, I see groups of MPs, independent two groups, not parties, also support, as well as self-help and non-fractional groups. I'm just for justice, for the balance of justice in the room, I've stressed all those who support this law in order to leave the special services of officials. Please, Your Honor, I lay the groundwork and overall registration draft number (221), taking into account the Committee's proposals, which were announced by the chairman of the Committee of Roman Nasirov of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the basis and in general (2211), please vote. [[20:18:36]] For 292 Thank you all for your support. Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. 2210 — The related bill was reported by the head if there are no changes, no additions to it? Yeah, it's a similar law, it's similar, it's just another category. We vote 2210 as a base and as a whole. Please vote. Taking into account the profile committee's proposals. Based on and in general, taking into account the positions of the profile committee. [[20:19:06]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Registration number 2214 of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on stability. He's included, honorary colleagues, according to my orders to the agenda and other bills. 2214 to report to Deputy Minister Didenko, co-reporter, on the rostrum, please. The reporter is Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. He can report to the committee on his own. Please, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u159	Your Honor, the Prime Minister! Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! Good evening! Your attention is on the proposal of a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to stabilise the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. This law is developed as part of the implementation of paragraph 23E of the Memorandum between the International Monetary Fund and the Government of Ukraine. This law provides for a change to the five laws in force in Ukraine, which now regulate natural gas calculations. First. It's the Warm Supply Act. This law proposes that special distribution accounts be left only for the licensees of the National Commission on Electricity and Utilities. This is about 300 companies that consume 98 percent of the gas. The rest of the enterprises should be accounted for by mechanisms, financial guarantees, that will guarantee the natural gas supplier. The Law on Measures is designed to ensure the continued operation of the fuel-energy complex. It is scheduled to be suspended from July 1, 2015. This is Law 2711, which was adopted in 2006, with a 9-month deadline, but it still exists today, and it was possible to pay off 24 billion TKE debt in this room. In view of the time limit, I would like to point out that the biggest discussion on the Coalition's Council was the position on the implementation of the 34 billion debt owed to NAC Naftogaz. Any text on this item is proposed to be removed and processed in the committees and factions of the Supreme Council for second reading. That's the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u160	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u161	Similarly, it is proposed to amend the laws of Ukraine on executive conduct and on the recovery of the debtor's ability to pay or to declare it bankrupt from the point of view of the introduction into the Board of NAC creditors of Naftogaz or its subsidiary, Gaz Ukraine, before which, in fact, the debtors of past periods have a large number of debts. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, the head of the Mikola Martinenko profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the committee discussed at its meeting a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to stabilize the financial situation of the National Company Naftogaz Ukraine (registration 2214) on February 23rd. Unfortunately, the last edition came a little later, but it essentially does not change the text of the bill. The committee’s decision on this issue was to vote on the basis of the first reading and to ask the room to make a brief preparation procedure for the second reading of the document. In a revised paper, such as the Ukrainian Heat Supply Act, which deals with the rule on the closure of thermal power plants in the event of a violation of the terms and conditions of payment of natural gas and its over-consuming consumption, but takes into account the need to ensure technological security in appropriate periods, which provides for a state of emergency and the possibility of further operation of the heat supply system. These are changes to articles 1-6 and 19 of the Warm Supply Act. All other provisions of the bill remain unchanged. Therefore, it can be considered that the main part of the bill is provided for by the members of the committee. Taking into account the urgency and urgency of this consideration, I consider it necessary to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis and to request a shortening of the deadlines for preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u164	Thank you. Please register by factions, please, by factions. Please, Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievicz, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! I would like to support the position of head of our committee, to vote today only on the first reading. Because the bill is extremely important, it deals with solving a lot of problems that are accumulated in Naftogaz, but at the same time it's problematic enough, because it can create problems for the heat utility industry and for other areas of energy. That is why this situation, including debt commitments, needs to be carefully considered and organized and made with a view to making fundamental changes, and I will allow myself to say so after my first reading. I therefore propose to support the committee's decision and to vote in the first reading, and to allow the reduced procedure to enter the voting room in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. In fact, the National Company Naftogaz Ukraine is a strategic enterprise for our state. And the bill proposes to provide him with effective tools to secure his functions. So the People's Front faction is proposing to support this bill on the basis of a second reading, to work on all the issues that arise in the national MPs, and also to support the proposal for an urgent consideration of this issue through a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u169	I'd like to pay attention to what this law is really about. This law on three things, all those who owe anything, and any NAC money "Naftogazu", including "Heatcommunnergo", including "Heatelectric power plants", including all state-owned enterprises that are not privatized today. Because they make up strategic ownership of the state. This law allows 70 percent of those debts to be discounted and then for these debts to be borrowed. Practically bankrupt, including the Heatcommunergo, and the TEC, and the state-owned enterprises of strategic assignment. For people, there's another nice thing that's being prepared here, they're going to pay off the debts of natural persons directly to collector companies that can also be given 70 percent of the discount of these debts, and then they're going to spend everything on people. First, people led to a condition that they couldn't pay these tariffs and then their debts would practically sell, and then they would get that out of them. We think that if there are debtors, and these debtors are really state-owned enterprises, then the state has to solve this, which means that the heat, the heat, the heat and the heat power plants, owe NAC Naftogazu for heat, for gas. Because they didn't get proper grants. And now the state itself has put them in bankruptcy, and then it's going to bankrupt them. And in fact, I think that a good strategy is already in place for individual privatization companies in the shadow sphere of all these assets. We believe that everything must be absolutely transparent and without corruption. This law cannot pass an anticorruption test. Fatherland won't be able to vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u170	Please, National Deputy Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. Oh, you're Wojcietsky. National deputy Vojtsiecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u171	I ask you to pass the word Vojcitsky Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister! We want to point out that we realize that this bill is very important. It requires further work. We believe that it can be accepted in the first reading, but with the next reading in mind. First. We demand that an independent audit of receivables must be carried out before even dealing with the sale of debts, which is the first. The other one. We believe that the 18th article should be deleted where the discount is concerned. Thirdly, and most importantly, if TKE is a thermal utility, if there is no budget debt in front of them, then we have the right, indeed, to talk about the repayment of the debt under the procedure defined by this law. If there is a sovereign debt, then we should not touch TKE. These are our basic conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u174	Excuse me. May I? I forgot. Yes, one more point, this is about the advance payment, the advance payment requirement with the TKE. You know very well that TKE simply has no money to make advance payments. Please also consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u175	I have another proposition, Arsenija Petrovich, please listen. If it's warm for businesses. Communal. There is no economically sound tariff on heat, and the law does not apply to it. That'll be my offer if you do. An economically unwarranted tariff if it is not approved. Please, Arsenius Petrovich, 22,14, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u176	Dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u177	Arseny Petrovich, one minute. I'll give it to the factions. Please, Monsieur and Rosenblatt. In a minute: Moses and a minute is Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u178	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, yes, a complex law, but we should talk not only about its complexity but also about the reasons why we should now accept it. And the reasons are well known: the Prime Ministers are changing, the Presidents are changing, and the shameful gas contract remains. And all remain, all debts remain. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who does the hat burn on, someone's hat burns, or what happens? Did something happen? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I don't even want to talk anymore. But the Radical Party faction insists that this contract should be terminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u179	Thank you. Rosenblatt, one minute. And then the Prime Minister sums it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to repeat the question I asked you at the faction on the question of "Ukrainian Naftogaza." Life is so complicated in our country, but Naftogazu is really the black hole of our country today. We're fighting for pensions today, fighting for every penny of our country, but there's a monster who's always eating our money. Last year we gave 110 billion dollars to support Naftogazu, this year we give 30 billion dollars, every year. Why shouldn't we give this money today not really to Naftogaza Ukraine, but to enterprises that are now able to start building a new Ukraine? We have to keep our houses warm. Why aren't we dealing with the problem? Why do we always deal with the consequences? If we don't decide today on the restructuring of the housing and utility sector of our economy, we're going to spend every year on spending, and these costs are going to work for our country's economy today, to create jobs. And I'm asking you very much today: do the reform of the GCC, today, direct this money to really be jobs today. This is the main force. And better today, I'll tell you the last thing, the restructuring of Naftogazu is its elimination as a strategic object in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to point out that today in the Ministry of Profiles, the program is being worked out, it's called Subsidies as Investments, which can be directed towards investments in energy conservation, energy savings, that's basically what you're talking about today. Please sum it up, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u182	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, several warnings have been made here. And let me start the same way with the development of myths. There was a myth that this law seemed to spread to individuals and that, as if under this law, something would be taken from people for debts. That's a lie! Read that this is not in the law. Second, about the self-help faction proposals. I strongly support all the points that were expressed by the Self-Help faction. Let me remind you. The first is an audit. We've already ordered Naftegazu, by the way. And since you and I have been working on the gas balance, I know that you've been very active, come, look, we're going to officially publish it. All the debt. The other one. On T.K.E. If the state is to blame, the company is not subject to the law. If the state was counting and TKE stole the money, apologize. Third. On advance payments. We can't put up advance payments right now, because that means we're going to have people take advance payments. That's not the situation right now. I hope that someday there will be a better situation, and when people have a lot of money, then we'll move on to other forms of calculation. So your proposals for second reading are strongly supported by the government, and the People's Front faction is also supported. Without us, it's very difficult to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u184	There was a fourth suggestion about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u185	It was mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u186	This was about deleting the 18th article on the order of implementation. We don't define the order of implementation, and we don't define discounts, but we set up a transparent procedure for dealing in such debt. Let's work on the second reading. It's about respectable colleagues from the Radical Party. I'd like to inform you that we started court proceedings against the Russian company Gazprom last month. First. The Ukrainian government appealed to the Stockholm Arbitration Court to withdraw $6 billion from Russia's Gazprom. Russia is our fault, not ours. The other one. The Government of Ukraine appealed to the Stockholm Arbitration Court for a second contract, which was an integral part of the first contract, namely a review of the transit rate for Russian natural gas, which goes to Ukraine. We demand an increase in transit from Russia. Third. You're absolutely right to say that this is not just a question of debt collection. This is a matter of sector reform as a whole. Thanks to the changes that we're going to accept today, we're predicting 12 and a half billion dollars, in addition. This total is going to be 25 billion dollars. For low-income subsidies, we have simplified the subsidy system as much as possible. Every family will have an envelope containing just one page a 15-point declaration. Unlike the current declaration, which includes 90 points to be answered in order to obtain a grant. A person will not go to social services, he will receive this envelope, he will quickly answer 15 points, and he will also post social services on his own, without queues, without corruption, he will be obliged to assign a corresponding subsidy. That's why, honourable colleagues, we ask you in the first reading to adopt this bill, taking into account all the suggestions that are being made here, for a reduced procedure to quickly accept it for second reading. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u187	Thank you, Your Honor. I think the answer is complete. I'm going to remind you again of my offer I made. Regarding the TKE business, I ask that it be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, on TKE. If there is no economically sound tariff for the TKE utility, then this law does not apply to these enterprises. I mean, if there's an artificial history where they're growing debt. It's a normal total offer. Because the national regulator sets tariffs for these services. I think it might be counted. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. That's the basis, based on the proposals that were made by Self-Help, the Prime Minister, who also sounded my proposal, which has just been announced. Please vote. Colleagues, get ready. Based on the base. 2214 as a basis, please vote. Please support, 2214, on a base. Based on the base. [[20:38:46]] For 242 Thank you, Your Honor. And come on, there was a faction offer now, please. Show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 105 People's Front – 74, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 25, Radical Party – 19, Fatherskina – 0, Economic Development – 11, Will of the People – 2. Dear colleagues, I would like to take a closer look at the vote, since the order of the day is extremely tense. And there was a proposal for a reduced procedure to prepare for the second reading. I will now put this question to the vote on the preparation of this bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. It will give you even better opportunities to work, since it is a second reading. Taking into account the proposals that we have announced. Why not? To the second reading, by the abbreviated procedure. Please vote. [[20:39:53]] For 210 The decision is not taken. It'll be a normal procedure. There's nothing to worry about. Two weeks. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we're working on it. 2147 Bill. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015. Reporting from Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. He will report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Budgets, Amelchenko. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u188	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable deputies, let me briefly outline the key directions for the changes to the state budget, which have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to the Supreme Council. The changes propose to increase the budget’s income by $22.5 billion and increase expenditure by 35. Seven billion dollars. Increasing income is due primarily to increased budgeting by public gas companies, as well as to inflation and devaluation factors. The higher costs are largely due to the need to increase assistance to the Ukrainian population, including the offer of 12.5 billion dollars to 24.4 billion dollars to increase the cost of a population subsidy, which is what the Prime Minister has just talked about. Such a need is called upon to protect the most vulnerable population from the consequences of the expected increase in gas and heat tariffs. In addition, we propose to increase financial assistance to almost 1 million Ukrainian citizens who were forced to leave their homes because of the war in the East. The amount of aid will increase by 2.9 billion dollars to 3.4 billion dollars. Finally, due to the devaluation of the bracelet, we have to increase the cost and service of Ukraine’s government debt, and the funding under this article will increase by 21.5 billion dollars. The proposed increase in expenditure in these three directions will require an increase in the budget deficit over the year. We predict that the government budget deficit target will increase from 3.7 per cent to 4.1. But at the same time, I want to point out that the deficit in the public administration sector, which includes not only the government budget deficit, but also the Naknaftogazu deficit, and the cost of recapitalisation of banks and the deposit guarantee fund, is declining through the proposed steps over the course. If it was 13 and a half percent of GDP in the 14th year, in 2015 we plan to reduce it to 8.8 percent of GDP. In particular, this reflects a reduction of two thirds of the funding of Naftogaz by the State of Naftogaz and a modest change in the financing of the Pension Fund. Support, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, co-reporter, the first deputy head of the Amelchenko Budget Committee. Vassil Vasilovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, Vasil Amelchenko, Oleg Laschka Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Budget Affairs had in due course considered a bill amending the State Budget Act 2015 by number (2,147). On February 18, however, he published his conclusions on such a bill. On behalf of the Coalition's Council today, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, an additional consideration was given to the bill and its proposals, primarily submitted by the MPs and the results of the proceedings. May I have your attention, fellow officers? To recommend to the Supreme Council a bill (2147) to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law that takes into account the proposals made by the Committee on Budget and the Ministry of Finance in the letter-based committee to the bill. However, some issues regarding the redistribution of medical subsidies remained unresolved. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance has supported an additional proposal to restore to statutoryly approved health subsidies for local budgets, which do not provide for a return to the state budget of health institutions. But make appropriate changes to Appendix 6 of the bill. But it was also suggested that the committee today withdraw 2301400 from the program and translate it into an extra program for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad, which is about oncological children, an additional 152 million dollars. This is an internal redeployment within the Ministry of Health. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u191	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u192	When voting together with the committee's decision to take such proposals into account. Also entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with Minfin and the Chief Legal Authority, with the adoption of such a bill, with appropriate changes to the text of the bill and its addenda, taking into account such proposals. And the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u193	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! The proposals are all that have been announced, processed. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall, please take your seats, your esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, reverend Arsenija Petrovich! The Radical Party faction suggested that the state budget should be set up as at least a few instruments of state economic policy. This is the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Export Credit Agency, the Industrial Parks Infrastructure and the National Small Business Loan Fund. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, we propose that we start changing our economic policies today and lay the foundation for economic growth today. Let's make a state bank for reconstruction and development with at least 3 billion dollars, either at the expense of government guarantees or at the expense of the National Bank's income.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u195	Please, Oleg Berezuk. Colleagues, I think so out of voice, it's an important question, but so out of voice accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, today we are adopting many difficult unpopular laws, including this one, understanding the responsibility and the important work that we all do together. But it is by working on the budget, the budget that will now be voted on, that we have understood one thing that never happened, that you and I, the Prime Minister personally, one of the most intelligent prime ministers in Ukraine's time, have created a quality government. But to this day it has been 100 days, many ministers to this day have no substitutes. That is, the quality of the government’s governance is not being built. And today we have problems with many ministries about its institutional capacity. And it's not easy for me to say that. Therefore, I propose, Mr. Prime Minister, by the end of this week, that every minister, as recorded in the Coalition Agreement, make his own proposals to his interlocutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u197	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u198	So we ask you, we vote for this budget, but the institutional capacity of ministries has to be worked and worked every day. It is not right that ministers are not allowed to appoint their deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we can do it this way. That proposal, which is Victor Halasyuk, is actually correct, but it probably needs further processing. And that's why I think we can work together on this issue and make a coherent one. It's a very serious question, and maybe not three billion, as you said. I think this could be an offer. Please, Prime Minister. Arsenius Petrovich. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to thank you for your very fruitful work in making changes to the State Budget Act. So I'll remind you that we've added 250 million dollars to offset the interest rate on agribusiness loans, 300 million dollars to build housing for ATO participants, 200 million dollars to mines and the Novovolin Mine. Next, a subsidy of 42 million was given to a school bus. Next, in the Carpathian region -- 700 million -- the construction of roads that will create jobs. And in principle, all the proposals that are possible in this situation, we've taken into account. It's purely a capital injection. And I'll also remind you that we're adding 3 billion to temporary displaced persons, to those people who lost everything at home and their jobs and everything to help them. And plus 12 and a half billion dollars is for subsidies, sorry, for subsidies for low-income citizens. I'm in. I've already said about the construction, the venerable Yuri Vitaliyovich, for the dead at the ATO. It's all said and done with your instructions. Now, about the fund, about the Development Bank. My colleagues, we've already had the Development Bank. It was so advanced that prosecutors of time needed to complete the investigation. So there is a request for a further, complex approach. We have a parliamentary profile committee and a government profile committee to make this Development Bank, we need a real foreign investor, and real money is unprinted, and real money from foreign investment. I hope that we will work together either through the Export-Import Bank of Ukraine, which is now state-owned, or through the Savings Bank, or through the other five state banks that are there to recapitalize them not five, but two or three banks and have the only Bank for Development. The noble Oleg Romanovich, great, with the same intelligent and intelligent faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u201	This is not fair, please do not restrict the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u202	On an equal footing with all the other factions of the European coalition. I would like to inform you that the model minister of the APC government, Alexei, has all the deputies. And if you and I know that you're taking part in all government meetings, and you're directly involved in the consideration of personnel issues, we're doing it in public, we're inviting everyone. If there's no glue on some of them, I'm sorry, I don't have a hand to sign. And I know that you support the same position that needs to be worked out, if there are coalition government personnel proposals, we are always open to all the best human resources proposals. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, it means that the bill of registration 2147 is put to the vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015. As announced in the rostrum, there is a conclusion of a committee that takes account of all the corrections, observations, suggestions and proposals made by the first deputy head of the Committee of Budgets, Amelchenka. Taking into account the proposals that have been announced, I am voting on the basis and in general. Please vote on the basis and in general with the proposals that I have just announced. On the basis and in general, the position of the committee and also the first deputy head of the committee of Omelchenka, which listed all that was included in the drafting of the bill. [[20:53:14]] For 273 Decision taken, decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Draft registration number 2085, draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the liability of bank-related persons. A very important bill, dear colleagues. Please, the President's representative. This bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine. Representative of the President, please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u204	Dear fellow MPs! It is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council in accordance with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, President number 2085, on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the responsibility of bank-related individuals. I would like to emphasize that this bill is as urgent as possible and is very important. Thesis one, so far, the financial situation of the banking system in relation to the results and relative capitalization is very difficult. At the same time, many banks today carry out risky operations that entail additional risks to reserve formation, to bankruptcy, and to reducing bank reliability. At the same time, operations are hidden from regulators that are of an appropriate nature or procedure for lending related persons. The second is that the financial and economic justification that implements the act does not require additional funding from the state budget. The third amendment proposed under the draft changes stems from Ukraine’s commitments signed with the European Union and the implementation of 20 amendments to the Basel Committee on Oversight. This principle is used by the International Monetary Fund. At the same time, those associated with the bank expand and make specific decisions. I would like to say that the bill proposes to submit to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, which provides for a substantial increase in the liability of related persons. At the same time, it guarantees the return of deposits to banks that are engaged in risky operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u205	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u206	At the same time, this strengthens the responsibility of the bank’s owners through observation boards, governments, the selection of management that will work more effectively, and risk policies will be in line with the regulator, the National Bank of Ukraine. In addition, criminal responsibility is being imposed for any action that leads to the transfer of the bank to the category of payable persons. This does not allow from one bank and another, when there is one owner or co-owner, to conduct a flow of capital, a flow of funds in the correspondence account, this increases their responsibility. At the same time, I ask that the increase in voting today for this law strengthens the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals, protects bank investors from what many banks are currently avoiding, which abuse risky operations. Thus, I propose that this bill be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u207	Thank you. Please, from the factions. Uh, committee, committee, please. Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u208	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I realize that everything needs to be done very quickly, but there is a procedure that needs to be followed. So there is a committee that wants to announce its decision and observations. In fact, today we received this bill, yes, we got to know it very quickly. And at its meeting, a decision was taken on, by a majority, 2 votes in favour of adopting the bill as a basis and as a whole. During the discussion, however, many MPs, who in due course led the law enforcement structures, expressed the following. They said that if this bill were 15 years ago, believe me, this magazine, Forbes Ukraine, would be 10 times shorter today in Ukraine. So there weren't those oligarchs who took advantage of those bank operations, the operations of the National Bank that allowed them to become oligarchs today. Second thing the committee said. What this bill really needs today. But it was needed after Maidan's dignity, in April of last year. If it were accepted, it would be very good, and we wouldn't be able to get this money out today, and today we're standing here at the Radical Party, demanding a change of head of the National Bank. So, colleagues, it's a very good law, but I'm asking the Committee of Banks and Banking to make a statement. Why? Because criminal responsibility and administrative responsibility will be lifted, we will strengthen it. Moreover, criminal responsibility for these crimes must be further enhanced. But there are many business - related issues. And let him say the head. Bank and banking, they're going to agree to that or not. And then it'll be fair and honest. The committee decided, I announced it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u209	Thank you. Thank you. Please, from the faction. "Clock of Peter Dustenka, Yuri Lucenko. The faction matvienka? Please, Anatoly Matvienko from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Borisovich! First of all, I'd like to ask you why the non-professional committee will report on this bill. And he's reporting to a committee that doesn't have a direct attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u211	It's a language.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u212	No, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u213	Anatoly Sergiyovich! Stop the time. Anatoly Sergiyovich, this is about the responsibility of bank owners. This is a professional question. Please, please, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u214	It's not entirely true, it's no less a banking issue. Yeah. It's an equally responsible committee, for banking financial activity. The other one. I think our position, our order, was supposed to be mirror. I think we are looking at this law well, but in parallel, we would have to make changes to some of the legislative acts on the responsibility of the National Bank for the activities of this banking system. Because today the National Bank itself is no less a problem for the entire banking system, not just the banks themselves. But now essentially. We can't, obviously we can vote as much today as we can, it's for the first reading. I asked Vladimir Borisovich to protect the right of anyone who is able to make changes. That's the change I'm going to make. Because this law, if not settled, is very dangerous. First of all, it's not clear what a connected person is and how many are. The other one. The National Bank is granted the right to determine their involvement and to bring them to the crime scene 15 days later. This means that the banking rights of our National Bank are granted today. What we have no right to, no more, we can't let that happen. Next. Obviously we need to understand that there are theoretical things in this law. For example, article 52 sells property to a related person at a value lower than the one that the bank would have received from the sale and, hence, this property. Well, it's a theoretical norm. You can't take responsibility for some theoretical norm. And to conclude, I would like to say that we are turning the National Bank into a subject of raiding, not just order. And we can't let that happen either. Therefore, it is suggested that we vote only in the first reading and that we make serious adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u216	Good afternoon. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, how are we doing today? These banks, which often look more like a financial pyramid, are piling up, and their managers and owners are then going to the island to spend the money they stole from that bank, stealing from the pockets of investors who are completely virtuous, who believed that bank and took the money there. What does this bill propose? Create a system of responsibility for people who both own and run these banks. And that's why the People's Front supports this bill, but it proposes to make some change in order to make this bill very clear. Because there is a subjective element there today. So the Deposit Guarantee Fund is going to determine whether or not it's going to apply to these bank managers and owners for compensation for their losses that the bank has incurred or not. Let us not allow this decision to be made, but let us commit the Deposit Guarantee Fund to the compulsory norm that it is obliged to address such managers or owners, or in the event of their refusal to appeal to the court accordingly. So if you don't mind, under the transcript. It is proposed to amend Part One of Chapter 1 to such a rule that a fund or an authorised fund person should, if the estimated cost of liquidation of a bank approved by the fund is less than the requirement of creditors who are included in the register of accepted creditors' claims, apply to the bank-related person whose activity or inaction has led to the task of the bank's damage and the bank-related person who, as a result of such actions or omissions, directly or indirectly, has received an asset benefit from the claim for damages to the bank. And in the next paragraph, the word "right to turn" is replaced by the phrase "returns to such requirements."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u217	Thank you. You've heard these changes. I'd like to ask that there be an appropriate reporter. Please, Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u218	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Respectable citizens of Ukraine. Dear colleagues. The bill that we are currently considering with you is actually a revolutionary bill in the banking system, the financial banking system. Because today we have a situation. Bank owners, shareholders, billions of people steal money, move abroad, buy property there, with calves in the Bahamas, in the Canary Islands, depend on the Guarantee Fund. Well, maybe someone with the boys hangs out, well, so your business. But the fact of the matter is that millions of people are losing their investments. Pensioners who have worked their whole lives, people who have put their savings down, they lose them because they're the owners of the banks of property abroad, they've put money abroad, they've passed it over to the Desert Deposit Guarantee Fund, and then the state, at the expense of the budget, has to pay off the money they stole from banks that are not in good faith and finance. Therefore, for stealing, for fraud, for betting on investors who have entrusted their money to these banks, both owners and related persons must be held accountable for all their belongings. The girls are returning to Ukraine, the owners of the banks to jail, the money to confiscate, to find and return to whoever they were stolen from around the world. I get dozens of phone calls every day when people can't use their money for surgery or other emergency purposes because they've stolen that money. Therefore, the law must be voted on and those who rob investors must be in line with their health, life, property, and freedom to steal no more. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, then Oleg Berezuk and then Andrew Illenko. Please come in. The Secretariat, please invite you to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I think this is one of the most important laws we are considering today. All attempts to move to the second, the third, fourth reading will mean that this law will never be approved. The decision should be adopted either today or, in fact, we are allowing the adoption of the first reading to manipulate a number of articles that provide for direct responsibility, both for the owners of banks, but which is equally important, for those who issue refinancing loans. Those who know these funds understand the National Bank as their own. That's why it's a double liability law, and it's a double liability, and it's a double liability, and it's a double liability, and it's a double-funding bill, and it's a double-funding bill, and it's a double-funding bill, and it's an abuser. That's why our "Fatherland" faction insists that the vote take place today in both the first and second readings. But there is one fundamental moment. Regrettably, the terminology of this law is not exactly in line with the legislation on money laundering and the prevention of corruption. Therefore, the request: in technical legalizing, the entire terminology of this law must be consistent with the constant practice that is the practice of FATF. There will be no ambiguity in considering the matter. That's why, in order to put order in place with unscrupulous bankers, who, apart from bank ownership, have great property in real estate and movable property, our "Fatherland" faction insists that this bill be voted on today in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Then a minute, non-fractional, from the non-fractional Andrew Illenco, then Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This law was to be passed decades ago. We're taking him in too late. And if we take it as a base today, and we're going to be working for 2-3 weeks, we're not going to catch anything. Now, at least we have a chance, at least a small one. So with the technical and legal corrections that are really needed in this law, under the control of our lawyers, our factions today will adopt the law as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm asking the faction leaders to invite members of the People's House. One minute, Andrew Illenka. Then Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u224	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, in a situation of severe financial crisis that is happening in Ukraine today, this law is absolutely right and it is necessary for it to be adopted. And that's why our "liberators" votes will be in favour. But we also have to understand that it's only the beginning of a path in order in the banking field, because we think it's a criminal responsibility for the criminal monetary policy of the National Bank. And there must be both political responsibility in the form and resignation of today's leadership of the National Bank and legal, criminal responsibility for the absolutely anti-national monetary policy that is taking place today in particular. That is why such changes are necessary, but they should also apply to the legal basis for the work of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u225	It's a good thing you're supporting the bill. Please, Yuri Lucenko, the faction of Peter Dustenk's Block, and let's conclude, Stepan Kube.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, much has already been said by previous speakers, this bill is in fact the most important reform of today. I'm asking you to hear a simple number. All those who criticize often just activities and sometimes the inactivity of the National Bank of Ukraine need to remember have 110 billion unrefundables that it has not issued. And the price of this law is actually the return of this 110 billion to the national treasury. Returning it, not through a trust fund provided by the State, but because of the property of those associated with the commercial banks that conspired and robbed them and then the country. Dear friends, of course, would do well to adopt this law in the first reading, refine, and move on. But believe my 20-year-old understanding of politics. or we accept it today, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u227	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u228	Or there will be 110, not billions, but reasons not to vote tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, two more years. We need to stop the vacchanization of the looting of state resources. Vote for this law in the first reading and in general. If you need it, you can fix it later. But thieves are to receive an answer from today. The money is to return to the state treasury. Please vote "yes" in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs. I'm asking you to take your seats. See, your honorary colleagues, 2085 have been introduced two revisions, or two suggestions, this is Leonid Jemetz and Sergey Sobolev. They are fully supported by both the reporter and the majority of the hall. Please tell me, honourable national MPs, we will not be able to pass this law with you right now, which has been passed by the President, and to oblige the bank owners personally to take responsibility for every penny of the people who have invested this money in this bank. And they took it to this bank as stability, and they didn't bring it back. So this responsibility must finally be determined by the law of Ukraine. So I believe that every person in this room is obliged to vote in favour of this bill and on the basis and in general. And we're going to put a dot in the vacchanal that relates to people's investment, then their money and blood. So please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote for your consideration is Bill 2085. A bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the liability of bank-related individuals, proposed by Leonid Hamtza and Sergio Sobolev, on the basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general, please vote. May the owners of the banks be responsible for each national bracelet. Please vote on the basis and in general. [[21:15:06]] For 260 Decision taken. See how the Minister of Finance applauds. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on. Bill No. 1863 of the draft Act amending the ECSC Act. Reported by the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrey Zhurziy. Please report to Andrew. Then the co-reporter is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Unfortunately, in the country, it has become the norm that a large part of the population, 70 to 80 percent of them get paid in an envelope -- a large part of the economy in the shadows. Without the legalization of wages there will be no exit from the shadow economy, no tax reform is possible. On December 28, we accepted an attempt and voted in favour of the introduction of a lowering rate in legislation for businesses that increase the wages of their employees. According to the State Fiscal Service, which administers this tax, there is a level of citizens who want to apply this downward rate. Unfortunately, during our discussions and the search for compromise in December 2014, we set standards that complicate the application of this coefficient. So the members of the various factions, together with the State Fiscal Service, with the Ministry of Finance, have worked out Bill 1863, which cleans up all those things that prevent business from applying the declining factor and hinder business in these difficult conditions in which the country is located, raise wages for its employees, and thus compensate for part of the losses that employees get due to the loss of the exchange rate. First, there's a requirement that the minimum payment after applying the coefficient should be 700 dollars, and that the average wage on the company should be three thousand dollars. Three minimum wages. Instead, it is a simple requirement that one insured person’s payment should be no less than the average payment for this insured person in 2014. We also agreed that instead of raising the fund, we're changing the requirement of an increase of 20 percent, so we're lowering the requirement to apply the coefficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u231	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u232	And we're also cleaning up all the methodological inaccuracies, and we're clearly determining by the bill where and what the figure is, how it's calculated, and that all the information to calculate this coefficient should come from the tax payer's report at the only social contribution he's made in 2014. So we ask you to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. We are convinced that this small step, which will allow businesses to legalize the salaries of their employees, will allow us to make a definite reduction in the only social contribution in 2016 and to set the rate at a maximum of 15 percent, is a minimum task. As far as possible, to cancel the sole social contribution and to pay the sole tax on the income of the natural person. So please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u233	Thank you. Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, this decision is practically changing the concept of the bill that we adopted before the end of last year. We think he'll be more interested in business and business than in envelopes. And so the committee considered and adopted such a decision that it would propose to the Supreme Council to vote and support this bill as a basis and as a whole. We'll try. We hope that this will increase the income of the Pension Fund and make it possible to increase the pensions of our citizens. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I think we've discussed this bill enough. And we can fix this system to make it work more efficiently and to support working people and to keep their wages from the shadows. So I'm going to put it to a vote right now, and I'm going to ask the people's deputies, on the basis and in general, this bill (1863) that settles this issue, and we're going to be able to make people normally protected and pay them a white salary. I would like to ask 1863 on the basis and in general, Bill No. 1863 on change, the rapporteur, the Ukrainian national deputy, Andrey Zhurzyj. I ask all national deputies to take their seats, prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Can we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u236	1863 on the basis and in general, please vote. Please support 1863. On the basis and in general. [[21:21:09]] For 270. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, draft registration number 2003 needs to be reconciled. At the suggestion of the committee, we do not consider it today. We have questions that need to be included in the agenda of the day session. This is question 2262, registration number 2258, 2259, 2264, 2250 and 2263, 2265. These bills are introduced and need to be included in the agenda of the day session, plus Bill No. 2273. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please prepare and vote. To the order of the day session. Bills are listed in order of the day’s session. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Sessions. Please vote. Sessions. We've decided what to do, we can do it. Order of the day session, colleagues. [[21:22:39]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u237	Didn't I vote? I didn't vote. I've seen it. I see, I see. Let's do it again. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. You don't have to go back to them. For inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the bill. The numbers have been announced. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. That's better. [[21:23:09]] For 226 226. That's better. [[Applause]] Decision taken. Let's start the discussion. 2262. Arseny Petrovich! 2262. Please. We've put it in the agenda and we're starting the discussion. And before we voted with you in the morning. Not in the morning, but before the session began, we determined that these bills could be considered. Colleagues, you'll see the verdict, we'll talk. Please, Wolf Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Correspondent of Skuratovsky Sergey Ivanovich. Alona Babak will be a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u238	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the National Deputies and members of the Government. It is proposed to take into account the bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine in the area of heating and residential services. The bill in question includes, amends to 5 laws. About local self-governance, about residential services, about heating, about drinking water and drinking water, and about government regulation in utilities. The key changes proposed are the imposition of the duty to set tariffs only at an economically sound level, the removal of tariff rules at a level that does not cover economically sound and the possibility of obtaining compensation from local budgets. The purpose of the bill is to introduce technical rights, i.e. to change the name to the current name of the commission, to ensure the integrity of municipal activities, to provide utilities, to create conditions for investment participation, and, above all, to implement key event 8, strategic and intensive reform frameworks, as part of the second programming loan project, to development policy. The bill is supported by international financial institutions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u239	Do you want to talk or not? Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u240	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill entered the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing only yesterday, March 1st, Sunday. Today, the committee met at 9 p.m. to review the bill. At the same time, no representative of the legislative initiative came to the meeting and reported on the bill. In fact, the decision on the committee was not taken, but it was decided to postpone the consideration to Wednesday. And so please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u242	Thank you. I want to assign committees to consider Bill 2262, 2258 in order to consider them and bring them up to date, and 2273. Consider the profile committees and bring up the session immediately. 2262 2258. Next up, colleagues of honor, 2259, bill. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investor rights. Reported to Minister of Economics and Trade Ivaras Abromavichus. The head of the committee, Ivanchuk, reports. 2259. Please, Minister. 2259. Focus, please, on your respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u243	This Act on the Protection of the Rights of Investors was developed by the Association of Jurists of Ukraine. The most important thing in this law is that we are raised very strongly in the Doing Business table. With regard to the specific protection of investor rights, we will rise from 109 places in the TOP-20, some optimistic projections even in the TOP-7. This law deals mainly with matters such as a derivative claim, the right of a minority shareholder, who owns only 5 per cent of the shares, to file a claim in favour of society for damages against the company's management. Similarly, the liability of officials to the economy in the general case of injury to society by unlawful acts. This law also introduces the concept of an independent director. The most important is the establishment of detailed regulation of transactions of interest that will take account of the interests of all shareholders. Therefore, it is suggested that the bill be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u244	Thank you, Minister. Please, the head of the profile committee, Andrew Ivanchuk. Dear colleagues, national deputies. Listen very carefully, because we are about to vote on this bill, 2259.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u245	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee at its March 2nd meeting considered the bill, 2259, but in view of the great number of comments made by committee members, it was decided by the committee to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u246	Let's take it as a basis, dear fellows. On the basis of it, you will then prepare it for the second reading, and on the second reading, we will consider it. Do you have a deal? The committee's decision is. I'll put it to the vote as a basis, registration number (2259), and then we'll move on. (2259) On the basis of this, dear colleagues. Please support the vote. Colleagues, please take your places to vote. Please. (2259) Just on the ground. Well, not everyone votes, they don't make it, I see they don't make it. [[21:30:47.]] For-198 Let's go back. Let's do it again. Let's do it again, colleagues. Back, 2259. We'll go back and then we'll just look at it as a basis. Please vote for the return (2259). On return (2259), please vote, colleagues. And support me, please. (2259), please. Vote, vote, fellows! We made a decision that we would not leave until the day’s order was complete. [[21:31:21]] For 218. Dear colleagues, national deputies, please take your jobs. Please invite people's deputies into the hall. Calm down, please. Sit down, please. Well, have a seat, please. Colleagues, I don't want to disturb you. Yuri Chizmar, please take your place. Dear colleagues, for our return (2259) and then we will consider it as a basis. (2259) regarding. draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investor rights, (2259), please protect investment. 2259, for your return, colleagues, please vote. On your return, colleagues, please support. [[21:32:19]] For 216 Yes, there are no votes. Wait a minute, close the door. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Please, Yacenouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u247	Dear friends, I'd like to remind you. It's an investor rights law. This law is part of our Programme, signed by the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance. We ask very much, this is the first reading, the committee he passed, to vote. You have just been read out of the committee's decision to vote in the first reading. And you're correcting the procedure. A personal request to the greatest faction. Please support the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, and the investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u248	Please, colleagues. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u249	The People's Front supports the President! What about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u250	Colleagues, please, Your Honor, please, in the light of what the Prime Minister has said, I am re-voting to return. Colleagues, please take your seats. You heard how important this bill is. Please, Your Honor, please support the return. Please vote. Calm down, fellows! Protection of investor rights Please vote, vote. We're voting for the return. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[21:33:58]] For 235 Everything's fine. Now, dear fellows, we are likewise all those who voted in favour of the return vote to take it as a basis, in accordance with the committee's decision. An extremely important bill, based on a second reading, you will correct everything. One comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u251	One comment, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u252	Yeah, I made one comment. Please, Wojcietzka. A bird, please, Olena the Bird. And now we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u253	Thank you. Colleagues, the Self-Help faction understands the need to adopt the bill in the first reading. At the same time, we understand that we will need to work very hard on this bill in order to produce normal legislation. Moreover, we see that today another Bill No. 2273 was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which also proposes to amend the Act on Shareholder Associations. So we suggest we look at these two bills together, because they're both making changes to the same bill. And in fact, they also regulate the issues of the quorum in the general shareholders’ congregations, so the quorum of the Supervisory Board of Shareholders. So we want to look at them together and remember the 2,273 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u254	2273 will be considered in the committee and submitted, and we will consider it this week. And as far as 2259 is concerned, we need to base it on accepting it and preparing it qualitatively for the second reading. Please, dear colleagues, we are mobilizing. 2259 on a base. All those who voted in favour of the return vote on the basis. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, vote, vote. For! Based on the base. Voting, voting. Oh, that's better. Look. Even more than that. [[21:36:02]] For 239. Yes. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Bill, Draft Law (Registration No. 2264) Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. Reports Parfenenko, 2264. Please, Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u255	Dear friends, so that we don't have a discussion in this room right now, there's a request for 2264 for you to look at it on the committee. And if we can, so that we can quickly and expeditiously adopt this bill within a week as a whole. We've just put him in the agenda, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich. Is there a committee decision? Oh, that's it, then we can take the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u256	Okay, colleagues, come on, the first sentence is right for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u257	I didn't have any decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u258	Come on, I think we can handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u259	Are there voices or not? If there are voices on the ground, I'm going to our self-help colleagues. If there are voices on the ground to work it out, see what I suggest. Wait, don't wave your hands yet. Then I'll say it, and you'll say it well or not, and to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u260	Please listen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u261	We have this request, on the basis of acceptance, and we will have the same legal rule that you have expressed under the NAC bill "Naftogaz Ukraine." It refers to the attachment of TKE’s debt to the government’s budget and vice versa. If the budget is to blame, it is not to be distributed. If not guilty, then." Love Parasy." So there's a request to vote on the basis, and you're going to post it on the second reading. Is that okay? And the committee's decision is positive, the committee and the board in general. But in order for there to be no undue tension, let us then vote on the basis, comrades.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u262	The committee was looking at him, are there any votes? Vote. You support self-help, colleagues, based on the logic of the Prime Minister is perfectly normal. There's a committee. There's a committee decision. There's a committee decision. All right, dear fellows, then we'll turn it on, let's turn it on. Dear 2264, please, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u263	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to explain why some coalition deputies are voting in this room right now, and others aren't? The problem is that according to Supreme Council order No. 296 according to which we hold an extraordinary meeting, a specific list of issues that we can vote on as a basis or as a whole. All the other projects that we've just put into the agenda, we've included them, but we can vote for them tomorrow, otherwise it's a violation of the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to be more careful, before we begin our session, we voted on a special procedure for the consideration of draft laws. I announced it and we supported it. So you and I are fully following this procedure, which was special for this extraordinary meeting. So I would ask you to take this into account and not to address the Head of the Supreme Council with something that does not correspond to reality. Dear colleagues, please, we still have the head of the committee. You mean. Let's do it again. We have Law 2264. We can vote for it. And then we're going to do a second reading of it with those proposals that the Prime Minister said. Let's get the signal, let's see. Please give me a signal vote. Please give me an alert. [[21:40:58]] For-189 We do. I see. Dear colleagues, we're taking this matter to heart. Wednesday? Let's see what day we're looking at, dear colleagues. I think we can look at it on Thursday. Thursday's better than Wednesday. So we put it on Thursday and we agree that we're looking at it on Thursday, 2264. Adequate commission: Please bring him in for consideration of the meetings for the fourth time. 2250, honorary colleagues. 2250, please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u265	We're this, dear friends, the Natural Gas Market Act, and we just put it in the order of the day. It's a serious bill, and we need to work seriously on the committee. And it would be desirable for us to be able to accept immediately after working on the committee as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u267	There are many subtleties of economic, legal, and energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u268	Please make sure that the committee is properly prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u269	We have a term, honourable colleagues, until the end of March of the month of adoption of this bill. So we actually have 4 weeks there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u270	Let's put him in for the next plenary week, for the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u271	We'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u272	Is it accepted? (2250), the corresponding commission of the committee, is. (2263) is ready, the committee has been looking at it, and I understand that it's for the mothers to pay. Now, please, Paul Rosenko, Minister,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u274	Listen carefully, this is an important law. We're going to vote on him now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u275	Dear friends, dear friends, I would like this bill now to unite the hall. Because our principle, both government and coalitions, is that once we have at least a minimal opportunity to increase some social standards, social assistance, we do. And this is exactly the principle set out in our agreement that we are doing address aid. In this case, we offer to provide targeted assistance to low - income families for children between 0 and 3 years of age and to provide such assistance to low - income families in the amount of 250 dollars. Today, we have 250 dollars for children between 3 and 13 years of age and 500 dollars for children from 13 to 18 years of age. We suggest that we extend this standard to children from 0 to 3 years. There is a committee's decision to approve this bill as a basis and as a whole. There's a request: back him up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u276	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you to prepare for the vote. An important bill, let's support the vote. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. You mean from the profile committee? Oh, no? We support it on the basis and in general. You have heard that this is the support of mothers and children. Take your seats, dear fellows, let's vote. 2263 as a base and as a whole. On the basis of a total of 2,263. 2263: State social assistance for low-income families (social protection for children) [[21:44:50]] For 260 Decision taken. By factions, please, dear colleagues. Block of Petra Poshenko – 108, National Front – 75, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 28, Radical Party – 18, Fatherhood – 10, Economic Development – 6, Will of the People – 1. Next, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll put 2258 on Thursday. All right, fellow officers, there's still one bill left. Another reading. The draft Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. We're going to 2265. The Prime Minister is about to make a sound. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u277	Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry to bother you, but I'd like to draw your attention to a bill. Look. I know this law has failed to pass the committee. But it's a law on how to make calculations in a foreign currency. I'm explaining what's going on right now. Someone sent a currency abroad. In addition, a large portion of the billions of dollars were shipped abroad on import contracts and the goods never arrived. One goal was to buy $15, then wait until he was 20. Buy 20. Wait till he's 25. And so on. I think I'm done here. Thus, a considerable amount of money was left outside the country. According to our estimates, only statistics are officially referring to $1 billion that have not returned to the country in terms of contract terms. It's the law, unfortunately. Allows you to leave the currency outside the country for 180 days. What's more, there's a pattern of how this currency can never be returned at all. For example, the company has some kind of help. The Ukrainian company has some kind of Cyprus offshore company, and it's being chased abroad. They sign each other's contracts, and then they go with themselves in court at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and that makes it possible for years not to return the proceeds in the first place. What are we asking you? In order to stabilize the exchange rate, let's adopt this bill in the first reading. He's predicting the main thing: shortening the term of return twice, from 180 to 90 days. Although I would ask that the final edition should be 60 days. Next. Remove the corruption ingredient when issuing extension licences. And the third. Remove all of these schemes that allow you to actually leave the currency legally abroad, which cuts off currency stability. If you would agree to accept it in the first reading and the committee to consider it on Wednesday and to the second reading we quickly voted and signed it on Thursday. It would be a strong signal to the market that we're on our way to stabilizing the country's currency exchange rate. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Head, and I'm asking the faction, the first reading on Wednesday by the committee as a basis and as a whole, and for us to finally vote on Thursday and return the currency back to the country and stabilize the course.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, we have one question. This bill was not considered on the committee. So I propose that we give the commission to the committee and vote first tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u279	First reading on the committee. And on the committee, we can draft it and vote it in the first reading and on the basis of the whole, tomorrow. And put a dot. It's not Wednesday, it's Tuesday. Is that the logic of action taken? Roger that. Then the commission of the committee is to consider it tomorrow and put it first for consideration tomorrow. Is it accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no. Tomorrow. Tomorrow's the first. Tomorrow's the first. Let's ask the first question tomorrow. Please. Please prepare this bill tomorrow before the first, on the basis and in general. Is it accepted? The committee has. No, no. We don't have to vote, we vote tomorrow morning. Please, next bill 0934. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u280	Thank you, thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to introduce you to the consideration prepared for re-second reading of Bill 0934, on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. I emphasize that it is very important; it is not being considered by chance today. Because this bill practically halves the list of licensed activities. Dear colleagues, this is necessary to reduce regulatory pressure on Ukrainian business in order to show the international community that we are actually improving conditions for business in Ukraine. In order to attract not only IMF loans, but also investments in Ukraine. I would like to thank all the members of the committee, the author of the Alexander Kugill bill, for their fruitful preparation. I want to thank all the factions that have been consulted and amended. I'm going to focus on just a few key differences that we've worked on for a second read, which has been taken into account. Dear colleagues, the licensing of external economic activity is included, at the offer of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade to ensure quota in export-import operations. Mr. Nasserov, head of the Tax Committee on ethyl alcohol licensing and trade, and so on. This is done to provide fiscal opportunities for the state budget. Dear colleagues, the third amendment is very important. Dear colleagues, Mr. Martinenko's amendment, the head of the PEC Committee for predicting the licensing of monopolistic activities, electricity, heat, electricity, and so on. I want to point out that we, you, worked with the committee with the authors and in conjunction with the Mineconomy, with the Kabmin, a compromise editorial that provides for licensing only where the regulated tariff is foreseen, where the tariff is not regulated, where the license is cancelled. So if the plant itself, for example, builds a cogeneration plant, it doesn't have to get any licenses. Only for state monopolies and only to provide them with licensing opportunities. Dear colleagues, the next proposal that we have taken into account is the heads of the committee from Mr. Danchenk's IT committee, the refinement of the wording "is now subject to the licensing of activities in the field of telecommunications with respect to special law," we do not mention here nor the numbering resources, nor those other extra things that were unnecessary. Instead, we envisioned cryptographic protection of information as well as the production of special technology, as the BSS insisted. It's very important at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u281	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u282	Let me finish, please. Dear colleagues. I also stress that the envisaged split licensing in the stock market and financial services is important given the specificity of this regulation. So we've come up with an agreed consolidated version that takes almost all the key amendments into account. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would like to support this bill, as recommended by the Committee as a whole, taking into account the amendments that have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u283	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are still. I ask the head of the committee to remain seated. National MP Trigubenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u284	Thank you. Dearly beloved, in order not to allow collegiates in law, an editorial amendment of article 7, paragraph 14, is proposed after words. The words "hazardous substances and wastes" before the word "waste" inserts "dangerous" will also allow disposal in the Wastes Act and in the EU directives to prevent collisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u286	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u287	supports such an amendment made by the vote, because it does specify the wording and I would like to point out that it is there according to the Kabmin list. We can support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u288	Thank you. Trigubenko's proposal is supported, please Sergey Pashinsky. Sergei Pashinsky, then. Fish. Then Kuprienka, then Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head. Dear reporter. I'm against licensing any activity, but today, unfortunately, we have a lot of people, pseudo, in shape, in balaclavas, who say they're in protective custody. At this point, we find it inappropriate to rule out security licenses, and we should have an impact on this type of activity. And the People's Front faction is asking us to include security activities in licensing, which is a condition of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u290	Thank you. Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u291	Thank you. Dear colleagues, such an amendment has not been made by the people’s deputies, so the committee’s proposal to keep the room in its current order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u292	And if we have to fix it, let's see. Please, Kuprienka, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u293	Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party. If at least once a person has tried a neighbor abroad, he knows how difficult it is to find a suitable answer without having access to the register. Some reason in this law, well, there must have been a misrepresentation in the 28th article of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. Excluded lawyers from subjects who have access to the register! It's a limitation of rights not only on lawyers, it's a restriction on citizens' rights. So I propose, by a vote of amendment, that I delete the word of counsel from this bill. Let them stay, they're willing to pay money to get into the register. And this will make it easier for lawyers to work and strengthen the protection of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u294	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u295	Thank you, Oleg Vasilovich. The committee supports such an amendment, taking into account that the notaries also have such access. Thus, in principle this can be supported as an amendment to the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u296	Thank you. People's MP Kiral, Self-help. And we'll vote. I think it's Pashinski's. Ah, the Fishcat will. We'll count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u297	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, as we say very often, there are no ideal laws. Working on this bill on the committee was really very difficult. Because each controller came with his own needs, the desire to preserve the system that existed. Think about it, the bill is halving the number of activities that are subject to licensing. So in Self-Help, we think this is definitely a step forward. This bill needs to be voted on. And once again, I would like to join colleagues, heads of the committee, thanking Alexander Volodymyrovny for the great work she has also done under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u298	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, look, this is the last bill. I think we can count on the amendment of the Pashinski People's Deputy? And the faction supports it. And we won't have any, no, no objections. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u299	Dear colleagues, technical also right hand. The question of transporting dangerous cargo passengers into dangerous cargo does not include the notion of "dangerous waste". So dangerous loads by gauges, by size, and so forth. That's why I'm asking for this purely technical, including hazardous waste. And also in article 7, there is no such license as pesticides and agrochemicals and their retail sales. And this is a serious question because it is a matter of human health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u300	Thank you. I'd ask, look, your honorary colleagues, there's preparation for second reading, you can do anything to make amendments to the committee and generalize them, and not talk them out of voice right now, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u301	Dear colleagues, these questions, the second question was discussed in the committee, it was not supported. So I have a proposal for that amendment, which was now being resounded to put all the amendments to the vote in accordance with the law being passed in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-02-m0.u302	As a matter of fact, it's an amendment, isn't it? We vote on the basis and in general with the amendments that have been announced, including Sergey Pashinsky's comments on the committee's head, all taken into account. Please vote on the basis as a whole. On the basis and in general. On the basis and in general. This is the last bill, and we're going to support it as a whole. Vote. Dear colleagues, we will support it as a whole. On the basis and in general. [[21:59:37]] For 254 Ouch. Dear colleagues, don't break up, I've already prepared 25 drafts to be considered. No, there are still, look, two more questions. First, the very important question is to welcome our colleague on her birthday. Andry Vasilovich Shinkovic is celebrating his birthday today. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And the second question is, respectable colleagues, second question, respectable colleagues. Look, tomorrow we're supposed to start at 10 o'clock, but since we've given the committee a job, there's an offer to go into normal mode, start a meeting tomorrow at 12 o'clock. If I put this motion to the vote now. People's deputies, please come back. Please come back. About the start of tomorrow's 12 o'clock session. We'll hold the Conciliation Board before that, and we'll hold committee meetings if we have to. Do you accept, Your Honor? Please vote for the opening of tomorrow's session at 12 o'clock, noon, 12 o'clock, please. [[22:00:59]] For 244 Decision taken. The committees ask you to carry out all the questions, all the assignments that have been announced. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
