ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! We're starting a plenary session. I'm asking the faction leaders to invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can begin our work with you. Please invite the deputies to the Secretariat. We will begin our work. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:05:37]] 282 people's deputies. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Anton Heratchenka. Let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Best wishes to our colleague! As always, we have 30 minutes with you on Tuesday for factions and groups. So please register the factions and groups for 30 minutes from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please. Please, the Fatherland faction is Alexander Kugel. Self-help? There's no self-help representative, Wesselova. Is it? Well, Oksana Ivanovna said she didn't. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u2	Comrades, good morning! Let us immediately discuss the most important topic today, the Attorney General. It is very good that we have reached the resignation of the Attorney General, who has failed. This is the first time in the history of Ukraine that the Attorney General, who appointed the President, resigned most of the political forces but did not set up a society. Now, here's a word for us. Let's not take sin upon ourselves or assign another ineffective person. Two attorneys-generals have changed since Euromidan, and the results have been zero. A person can't break the system. Can't a man who grew up in the Attorney General's Office make a new Attorney General's office. We need the Attorney General who will hate both corruption and the Attorney General's Office in its present form. The Self-Help faction will vote against Victor Shokin's appointment and urge a colleague to organize an open competition and find a strong, decent attorney general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u3	Please, Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Today, just in these moments, when the Supreme Council is now meeting, it starts in the Russian Federation, in Moscow a court over Hope, right in these moments, and now it's being brought to trial and terror begins. She's already got 50 kilograms of weight left, all the veins of the ruckus so there's no place left to put a dropper, she's talking to lawyers and she's talking very clearly and clearly that she's not on yotta, not for a minute doubting that she's going to continue starving for the last minute of her life, she's talking about that it's the only method of her own involvement in protecting Ukraine. She may not be coming to this court today, because she has no strength at all – this is a totally tragic situation. She's barely talking, but she says she won't back down. They almost forcefully make her drops of glucose, a protein, but she has nowhere else to go, and there are just some bruises left. I want us to be with you now, and our team has gone there very large, including the deputies of other factions, and I want to thank everyone. Even tickets weren't enough today, you know? In the morning, the deputies were on their way, and I want to thank all those who had arrived, and I simply did not have enough tickets. I just want us to be aware of the sacrifices that many people are making today. You know, sitting under the castles, getting fatal injuries or even getting killed today, starving like Nadia, in the shades, like the Sons, carrying all that's there, the abuse that's taking place over him, it's so brave, it's so heroic that you and I need to work with you here every minute to make the country different. I believe we're going to make it, I believe. Yes, everything is different, everything is difficult, we sometimes make terrible mistakes ourselves, we may now and do not do everything as the country expects, but I want us all to be aware of this responsibility and just know that apart from all of us, together with our country, no one will do Ukraine, no one will protect it and no one will build it in a new way. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of Nadia!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u5	Please, Radical Party, Vineyard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u6	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. There is no one in Ukraine who believes in the honesty of the courts. The system is so rotten and corrupt that most people have no place to put the glue, but there is an even bigger affair in this system right now. Now the promos forces are conspiring with some, in the words "patriots" trying to stretch through parliament, through a profile committee of decisions to elect untimely or raise 295 judges, almost 300. I started to study what a judge is, and I'd like you, colleagues, and I'd like you to hear who's being pushed into court for life. Those judges who were tried by Midan as Judge of the Kharkiv administration of Svetlan Archipov, as Judge of the Raven administration of Oxan Dudar, as Judge of the Kharkiv administration, also Olena Izovitova-Vakim, cousin of the creature Medvedchuk Lydia Izovetov, former head of the Supreme Council of Justice. Further, listen to more cynicism, Judge Tetjan Sapalov of the Viennese Court of Appeal, who judged the heroes of the crown court, goes to the Supreme Administration of Ukraine. Judge Kieeva Victor Kitsuk, who was one of the judges in the Timoshenko case, questioned the witnesses, falsified the data, went on an untimely basis. Now, please, and now, the cynicism itself, Judge Funeral, Sevastopol is going on an untimely basis, this judge has broken his oath and the decree that he is the judge of the Russian Federation who has already signed Putin. Judge of Kerchnysk City, Alexander Tsvetkov, who confessed to the annexation of Crimea. All these bastards in the manteries are now trying to fit into the Ukrainian judicial system, the enemies of Ukraine, and the fifth column of the Kremlin. And those who in the past have built a judicial vertical for Yanukovich. The port that today in Moscow is threatening to return, and Kiwalov, today they're trying to fully integrate the Ukrainian judicial system, the bastards that judged Midan, the villains who confessed to the annexation of Crimea, the bastards who swore an oath to Putin. I ask my colleagues not to allow any further deterioration of the judicial system. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u7	Please, Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On February 11 in Minsk, there were peace talks between the Presidents of Ukraine, Russia, France, and the Chancellor of Germany. I'm sure in this room every national MP wants an end to the armed conflict in our country's East. The time of radical sentiment is gone, and there is no alternative, and diplomatic solutions to the conflict must be sought. He has repeatedly called for the Opposition Block and proposed his plan for a peaceful settlement. The president of Ukraine is responsible for achieving peace in the country. We believe that in a situation that has arisen, Parliament must move away from radicalism and literally support the President in these negotiations. In particular, we propose to form an interfractional group in Parliament with a peaceful settlement and to appeal to the MEPs and the State of Russia to participate in the creation of a joint commission with the participation of the OSCE to produce guarantees for the observance of the border regime with Ukraine. As for the government, we believe that everyone should do his job. The government is obliged to resolve economic issues. What do we see today? Today, more than three times, the national currency has fallen. Debt from salary over the past year has increased by 2 billion, 300,000 of our compatriots have lost their jobs, it's just official data. Prices of food, medicine, and utility tariffs have increased. The government is trying to write down all these failures into war. In the interests of the people of Ukraine, the Opposition Block is ready to reject all political ambitions and work together to take counter-crisis measures. We propose a concrete recovery plan for Ukraine, namely, to stop the uncontrolled devaluation of the bracelets to restore economic stability, stabilize state finances, protect population contributions and overcome the energy crisis. In order to start the economy, it is necessary to return investors to Ukraine and reduce the pressure on business, stop the legacy of fiscal bodies, hold an international conference to attract foreign direct investment under economic modernisation programmes, support Ukrainian exporters and small, medium-sized businesses by providing additional benefits. It is very important to ensure social protection for the population, for which it is immediately possible to index wages and pensions at the expense of income from the closure of tax lacquers. Ukraine needs peace and economic recovery. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u9	Please, People's Front, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Clearly, we are living in historical times. The country has survived a year of history that has greatly changed the history of the world. Next week, we're going to celebrate the anniversary of the death of Heaven's 100th, the anniversary of the completion of Maidan -- the time when the Ukrainians brought the world: we're not an object, we're an object, we can determine our destiny and move our own history. Today is once again the historic days when Minsk is really not just a country, not just a Ukraine -- the fate of all Europe, which it will be: whether there will be peace that we all want, or whether we will have to enter a long period of war. And today, of course, Ukraine wants peace. And here my colleagues from Opoblaka talked about the responsibility of the Ukrainian President. The Ukrainian President has repeatedly stated: Ukraine wants peace. We depend here today and on the Russian president with whom you call for very active communication. And it is his responsibility to make this peace. Our responsibility here, each of you, and each of us, is to be accountable to those heroes of the Celestial 100 who died a year ago; to those heroes of the Ukrainian army who today are holding back the Russian army's invasion. And the essence of this responsibility in being able to act together, in being able to hold our pro-European coalition, to make difficult decisions, is not too popular, but, nevertheless, no matter what, to act together. The essence of this responsibility is to be effective in achieving results. If we're going to deal with the issue of the new Attorney General today, we have to ask him a question: and where is the result, how quickly is he willing to show society that post-majdan authorities are capable of acting in the interests of people? Our responsibility with you is to build state institutions. Our responsibility with you is to think about the interests of the state first and make the institutions of the state effective again. It's also the Anti-Corruption Office that we need to launch, and judicial reform, because without an independent court, without a legal system, we will never prove to the Ukrainians or the world that Ukraine is really a European state. This is a challenge for the entire Ukrainian Parliament, and I believe we can be accountable to history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u11	Please, Peter Pearcenk's Block, Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Peter Prashenko Party unanimously supports the President's decision to resign the Attorney General. Today, there are many questions in society about the work of the law enforcement system, including the work of the Attorney General’s Office. And it's not just one person, it's the team that works there today. And that's why we support the decision that Vitaly Jarem is going and the team that's been running the Attorney General's office lately. The Peter Prashenko Party faction, we spoke to the President yesterday, we are ready to support the candidacy that will be put forward by the President. Today, we know that Victor Shockin will be the Attorney General’s attorney. This is a professional person, a man who opened a case against Pukac in 2003. You understand what time it was, and who the President was then, and what courage it required, the man who provided. And his decision, his actions, really allowed him to execute and bring to an end the murder of George Gongadze. A man who did not fear and open cases against the representatives of the regime in 2005. That is why we support this decision and are prepared to consider its candidacy if it is submitted by the President of Ukraine to the post of Attorney General. And he also wanted to say that Ukraine is in an extremely difficult situation today. Tomorrow, we all know they'll be in the Minsk talks. We understand how difficult these negotiations will be for the President of Ukraine, for Ukrainian diplomacy. But we are confident that with the support of our Western friends, with the support of the Western world, which understands that today is not only a war for Ukraine's independence, but also a war for values, common values, values for the values of the Western world, and this war is fought by Ukraine that they support us. I want to tell you, I literally returned from Washington for days, our Ukrainian diaspora, and all of Ukraine's friends there are doing huge work with Congress, with the Senate, with the President's administration to get full support from both the United States and their allies. And so we all hope that those negotiations, when tomorrow comes, will end successfully, that Ukraine will protect itself, that there is no doubt about it. And we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u13	Please, Economic Development, National MP Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u14	Oleg Kulinic, Economic Development Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Sir, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. The 8th European Parliament is facing enormous challenges – the opposition of the aggressor and the development of the economy. And without the development of the last, we can't solve the first problem. However, economic growth is hampered by the corruption that you and I must destroy. Let me draw your attention to a very strange situation that has arisen with the decentralization of power and the fight against corruption in Ukraine. This is a specific initiative to eliminate corruption and strengthen the role of local communities in land management. To this end, bill 1159 of the local councils is passed on to some 20 million hectares of land, one sixth of the total area of Ukraine. The logic of the bill is very simple: Let the land be ruled by 10,000 rural councils, since no minister, prime minister, or president builds a rigid, corrupt vertical. The local councils were in charge of the land until 2002, until they were handed over to administrations and later to the State Department at the time of the centralization of Leonid Kuchma’s powers. We are now seeing attempts to address this issue blocked in the Supreme Council. Despite the fact that this bill is already supported by the Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council, and the Economic Development Group and the Head of the Agrarian Committee were asked yesterday to include the bill in the agenda of the plenary for the current week, for example, this bill is missing. I remind you that according to Article 24 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the draft schedule for the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council is being prepared for committees, taking into account the proposals made by members of the factions and groups. Accordingly, there is no basis for considering the bill. And I wouldn't want to repeat the practice that we've already observed in the previous government when, using leadership, anti-corruption bills were blocked. Why is this happening? Because without the authority of the State, the State Department loses its left share of corruption flows. Thus, according to the agrarians, bribes in the lease amount to $300 per hectare — hundreds of millions of dollars per year. Think about these numbers. Regrettably, there are signs that there are already certain culinary arrangements for managing these illegal flows. For the time being, representatives of 10,000 rural councils are careful to see whether the Supreme Council will give them back their legal rights under land administration. I am convinced that if the bill is not considered this week, the rural communities will once again find that decentralization in our country remains a matter of words. Therefore, considering that the drafters of the bill are the majority of the MPs and groups, both the People's Front and the Petra Poroshenko Block, the Father's and the Self-Help, the Economic Development Group insists on the fastest consideration of the bill in the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u15	Please, "The will of the people," Igor Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u16	Ukrainian people, Mr. Head, national MPs! Our "will of the people" group did not in principle vote in favour of the anti-national State budget, which the government had promoted in Parliament and had pushed forward. We think that everything that happened in this budget is all directed at the people. But the government has assured that the budget changes will be proposed in the near future, where social guarantees will be offered for the least-secured. Because today, every national MP who travels to the districts that communicates with the common people knows that talking about war is powerless and insufficient, and today people have taken their seatbelts to the impossible. "The will of the people" insists that in changing the budget, the government should take into account the bills that our faction has submitted. What are we talking about? "The will of the people" insists that we return to Bill 1031-2, which guarantees the appointment of pensions to women over the age of 55 who are employed for more than 15 years. What's more, today, you know, a dedicated bill that was voted by the Supreme Council, which allowed women who have been released and have more than 30 years of employment to retire. We propose to simplify the provision of assistance to low-income families and provide them with additional safeguards and to register the relevant Bill 1302. Every national MP who travels to the districts knows that there is no family that needs to be provided with social assistance that does not pay bribes for having or not having a pie. Since then, 65 hundred lands in the country have become a profitable part of a family where three children, a husband, and a wife are unemployed. We're creating an Anti-Corruption Bureau today. We think we need to create, but we need to create conditions under which people will not demand bribes. If this law is passed, we will fight corruption. Today, our group has drafted a law concerning heroin mothers. We have 80,000 heroin mothers in the country. Every national MP knows: 84, 82, 87, 70 years old -- they don't live long and they don't get that name. Dozens of them die early. We insist that this bill be adopted because it simplifies this procedure and guarantees heroin moms to get that title. To date, we have registered a law that indexes the minimum wage. You know what the government did? If the minimum pension is 960 dollars, the index is. And if there's a minimum pension of 650 dollars, there's no indexation. How do you expect to survive on a pension of 650 dollars? If our proposals are not included in the budget changes, the People's will for such changes to the budget will not vote, and we will continue our work. Because we think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're starting a day-to-day discussion. And the first question is, you're looking at the inclusion of issues in the agenda. There are two questions. This is the first draft of the Law on the Court of Auditors of 2072. The next one is 2045, the draft Act amending article 41 of the Act on Shareholder Associations (to reduce the interest rate for quorum). And another bill introduced by the President of Ukraine as urgent is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the responsibility of the bank. So it's the responsibility of the owners of the banks for the funds that were involved in these banks. Three bills in the order of the session. After that, I'm going to have the committees work on it according to the procedures of these bills. Well, they'll be brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as they please. Dear colleagues, no objection? None. I'll put it to a vote, please. Please be prepared, Your Honor, on matters of order of the day, on inclusion in the order of the day. Bill number. Draft registration number 2072, draft bill on the Court of Auditors for inclusion in the agenda of the session. This is followed by a proper review of the committees and the proceedings in accordance with the Rules. Please vote, please support. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[10:32:14]] For 262 Decision taken. Included in the agenda of the day session. Next question: Draft Act amending article 41 of the Act on Shareholder Associations (as regards the reduction in the interest rate for quorum) (Registration No. 2045). Registration number 2045. 2045. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Order of the day session. [[10:32:54]] For 254 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the liability of banks of persons. Submitted by the President. (Registration No. 2085) A two-pronged bill on the responsibility of bank owners. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support this bill. 2085, inclusion in the agenda and further processing in accordance with the Rules. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[10:33:32]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I would like to entrust the relevant committees with an urgent review of these bills in accordance with the Rules and to submit them to Parliament, in accordance with the Rules. Please, the camera, as well as the committees. Thank you! So let's get to the point. First reading. Draft Act amending paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Defence Assignment Products. (Registration number 1817) A proposal was made to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be sure to support a simplified procedure for consideration of the bill. [[10:34:49]] For 231 Thank you, distinguished national MPs! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Nina Petrovna, is invited to report. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u18	The Honourable Head, Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Act No. 1658 of September 2, 2014, which is exempt from taxes on added value imports of certain types of defence supplies. However, today a situation has been created where imports of defence supplies, including for the purposes of the ATO, have been introduced into the customs territory of Ukraine, and are still subject to taxation that has led to the suspension of its supply to our country. This is because the law does not clearly define the list of countries whose products cannot claim tax preferences, particularly that countries parties to an international treaty that has a military component. The very last concept is not defined in the national legislation of Ukraine and has a fairly arbitrary and broad interpretation, which in turn leads to the inclusion in the list of many other countries that do not actually have a bearing on the aggressor country of the occupier. We suggest that this issue be resolved through a new drafting of paragraph 2 of the Law, which will allow for the effective operation of the support mechanism of our army. The Tax and Customs Committee decided to adopt Law 1817 as a basis and as a whole, taking into account editorial clarifications. So, including what I'm saying, so that there's no ambiguity in preparing the final edition, I want to read the edited standards under the transcript. Put the name of the project in the following format: "To amend paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Defence Purpose Products." Paragraph two, paragraph 1 of the bill should be drafted in such an order. This law will not be extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u19	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u20	It does not extend to the production of a defence assignment originating in a country recognised by the occupying State under the law of Ukraine or recognised by the aggressor State in relation to Ukraine, according to the legislation, or imported from the territory of such an aggressor State or from the occupied territory of Ukraine, determined in accordance with the Ukrainian Law under any customs regime. With a view to enhancing the security of our state, I request the adoption of Bill 1817 as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the Roman Nasirov profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to extend the application of the tax-free tax regime to the added value of the import operations into the customs territory of Ukraine to the production of defence supplies from the territory of a State that is a party to the International Collective Security Treaty or to the International Treaty that has a military component if another party to such an International Treaty, including a multilateral one, is made by the occupying State, an aggressor in relation to Ukraine. Regrettably, when laws were passed in the summer to exempt certain products from VAT, restrictions were placed on the production of defence value imported from such States, which makes it impossible to cross products across borders as defined by who is a party to the International Collective Security Treaty. The committee clearly supports the proposed changes, while the bill needs some further clarifications, namely, there is no restriction on the use of aid from the occupied Crimea territory, and there is a need for another terminology in the bill regarding the country of the aggressor recognised under international law. On this issue, we need to not refer to international law, because we have already passed a decree on the country of the aggressor, on the recognition of the Russian Federation, but on the legislation of Ukraine. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the title of the bill needs to be clarified, which is to be excluded from the word of the Final Orders. With regard to the above, the words of paragraph 2 (1) should be deleted from the End of paragraph 2 of paragraph 1: "this law does not extend to the production of a defence purpose originating in a country recognised by the occupying State, in accordance with the law of Ukraine and, or recognized by the aggressor State, in relation to Ukraine, in accordance with the legislation or imported from the territory of such a State, the occupying State and the aggressor and, or occupied territory of Ukraine, defined in accordance with the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u23	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u24	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals made. Request also: To entrust the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy to prepare the text adopted at the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account technical and legal amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Please write: 2 in, 2 in. "Peter Dust Block," Ivan Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u26	Please give the word to my colleague, Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u27	Aleksei Petrovich powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u28	Dusty, 12th constituency. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable national MPs, this bill is really an imitation of what the Supreme Council has adopted last year's convening, a very proper initiative that would actually allow us to help our military defence complex and import without VAT and without tariffs additional products of defence assignment. Actually, it's just because of the little inaccuracies in the formulation that this bill is now unable to fully work. So I would ask all the national deputies of all factions to correct this inaccuracies and vote in favour. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, the People's Front, Katzer-Buchkovska Natalija Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u30	Please give the floor to the Deputy Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u32	Yuri Wozniak, People's Front, Equinox. Well, in short, the bill is technical. And what he's talking about is he's saying that if you bring in defense supplies from Russia and from the territory occupied temporarily by the Republic of Crimea, you don't get the benefits, and that's right. Because, you know, we're fighting Russia today, and it's clear that we're fighting this country, and there, buying weapons, and getting benefits from some people who are not very, let's say, loyal to our country, to Ukraine, I think this bill is correct, clear and clear. So the People's Front faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u33	Thank you. Opposition Block, Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Dudenkov Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u35	Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block faction wants to draw your attention to the fact that there are two inaccuracies in this bill. First, when the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Defence Assignment Products was adopted, there was some talk about the substance, but the legal side of the matter was ignored. But since it should be applied when adopting this law by professionals, namely, tax collectors, I would like to point out that this law will not work. Why will this happen? Because according to the law in which the changes are made, the second chapter of chapter XX of the Ukrainian Tax Code is complemented by a provision for exemption from taxation of certain products of defence. There are no warnings in the body of the Ukrainian Tax Code regarding non-application of benefits to one country or another. Taking into account article 2 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, in accordance with which provision of the Ukrainian Tax Code is solely applicable without any change until appropriate changes are made to the Ukrainian Tax Code, which is what we now have when this law is adopted? There's going to be a rule, there's going to be paragraph 32 of the second unit in constant form, and so there's no objection to any of the objections that are being talked about here right now. Second remark. It's about breaking the Rules. In fact, it was now presented in a new one. a new content, a new draft of this bill. Therefore, it is illegal to vote on the bill as a whole. This proposal should be made to the second reading and processed by the committee. This bill was introduced in a new edition. Please don't support me. I'm just asking for a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u37	Thank you. Please. Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u38	Dear fellow MPs! I want to tell you that so far enough quantities of goods are not available at Customs, on the basis of this technical amendment that we must make today. The Customs made requests to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for whom to recognize, who not to recognize as an aggressor country. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill as a whole. This will help to direct the necessary parts for our defence industry today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u39	Thank you. There are no more willing to speak on this subject. I've been looking into it. The law has fewer than a hundred articles, so it can vote on the basis and generally according to the committee’s proposals. I'd like the national deputies to take their seats in the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats! We're starting the vote. The bill (registration 1817) is introduced into your consideration, the draft Act amending paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for exemption from taxation of defence supplies), which is extremely relevant today in Ukraine. Please be prepared, registration number 1817. Please vote on the basis and in general. Please vote, fellow nationals. On the basis and in general, please vote. [[10:48:04]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. Next bill, registration number 1694. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the enforcement of contracts and public defence contracts). There is an offer to consider it from. Dear colleagues, we will change the sequence of the two related bills. Bill No. 1695 is submitted for consideration. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the creation of favourable conditions for the enforcement of public defence contracts and contracts). A proposal is made to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I would like to vote on this bill in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:49:19]] For 224 Decision taken. Please report to national deputy Ivan Vinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u40	Honorable colleagues, distinguished presidency, respected people of Ukraine. The two bills that we're going to consider today relate to increasing Ukraine's security. What are we talking about? There's a war going on in the state today. If we don't stop the Russian aggressor, we can't talk about the investment climate, we can't talk about the business development in Ukraine, we can't talk about the development of the state of Ukraine. When we talk about the budgets of the coming periods, about the coming budgets of the coming periods, we are primarily obliged to stop the Russian aggressors who are obliged to stop the war in Ukraine. Because what are we doing today? We suggest that we exempt the component of the defence supplies from taxation. I want to give you an example. In Ukraine, for example, BTR-3 began to be manufactured, and there is a Doitz engine of German manufacturing. So today, so that this engine is not three times as expensive as the Russian engine, we're releasing the Doitz engine of German manufacturing, which is part of the product of the defence assignment of the BTRA-3 production of Ukraine from taxation, customs and VAT. I can give you another example. We use a lot of BTR-80. They have Russian U.D.-2 engines installed on them. Today we don't import ingredients from Russia because this country is an aggressor in terms of Ukraine. We don't make them in Ukraine because the company that made the Southendizel in Melitopol doesn't work anymore. So we encourage, encourage and motivate Ucroborprom to convert the BTRA-82 motor section under foreign components. And we're motivated by the fact that we're liberating a foreign engine from proper taxation. This bill was very much discussed on the tax committee. And the committee was asked to introduce the codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u41	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u42	The committee was invited to provide a comprehensive list of the codes of goods that are defence goods that will be exempt from taxation. We agreed with our weapons manufacturer, including Ucrobornprom. And I would like to point out separately that in the law we prescribe that it is the basis for the release of defence goods. the ingredients that will be in the further components of the defence goods. The defence goods are the final consumer. This applies exclusively to those engines, those chassises, those transmissions that will then be installed on the ATR, where the final consumer is the Mini-Defense, or the other unit that protects Ukraine today. So given that we've worked hard on this bill, considering that we have an urgent need to adopt it, I'm asking you to support this bill. Support and vote with all power, both as a basis and as a whole, both by law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u43	Thank you. The focal point is the head of the Committee of Roman Nasirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! At its February 4th meeting, the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy considered Bill No. 1694. The bill is related to Bill No. 1695, which makes similar changes to the Ukrainian Customs Code. The national deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee, fully support the bill. However, the committee clearly believes that the import of goods for the production of defence supplies without paying the added value tax is necessary only if the code is clearly defined under the ZED CCT. Therefore, we suggest that the list of goods should be specified in the bill (registration number 1695) to amend article 287 of the Ukrainian Customs Code, which is also supported by the committee. And in the changes to the Codex Codex Codex, you can predict a reference to this article. In addition, the Committee believes that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should clearly define not only the procedures for the purpose of using imported VAT-free goods, but also the characteristics of their imports, which should also be mentioned in the bill. All the proposals that were made at the committee meeting are now included in amended Bill No. 1694. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the amended bill as a basis and generally as a law. In addition, I request that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy prepare the text of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account technical and legal amendments. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u45	Thank you. Sign up, two for, two against. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u46	Sobolje, Fatherland. I would like the author of the bill to hear the clear opinion of our faction, which is the following. We'd like to understand clearly whether there are codes that match the product nomenclature? Any allegations that it's impossible, I want to remind you, this Parliament voted in favour of the Special Tank Contract Act in Pakistan, and these codes were established and then they were classified. This enables us to avoid being abused in the supply of such products. And the second. It is very important for us that there be no abuse, and therefore the sanctions that are envisaged in cases where such products are not provided for military purposes should be clearly defined in the body of the law itself. Under these two amendments, this law can be adopted. Once again, the code is the most important. Because if you don't have the code, you're going to start using the product. Then the codes are encrypted and hidden. This enables us to act clearly within the framework of our legislation, which prohibits this from spreading such information. And secondly, it's sanctions, if the product is not delivered by destination, it must be the responsibility of the poor businessmen who abuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u48	Please pass the word "Sumar Victoria."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u49	Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the People's Front strongly supports all the bills aimed at strengthening the country's military-industrial complex and restocking our army. At the same time, we insist that this bill should be clearly consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the Ministry of Finance. We today have very complex negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, and sometimes we continue to have very often policies to reduce tax burden. We need to understand how this will affect the budget balance. So our proposal: we support this bill as a whole, we conduct appropriate consultations, I'm sorry, we support the bill as a basis for the first reading, we continue to consult with the Cabinet of Ministers, we define these positions so that it is approved and we do not harm the position of the Cabinet, and in accordance with the State Budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u51	Please, National Deputy Gordjeev, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u53	People's MP Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to support this bill in the first reading and to take it as a basis, because today our defence companies really need decent equipment, as well as ingredients that they need. It's our business today. I'm not going to say that today a lot of imports are coming from the People's Republic of China, which today does not meet the standards. So today, in order to buy quality equipment from Germany and all necessary materials, it needs to be without customs control. So I ask everyone to support this bill and to listen to the amendments that are needed today with the Cabinet of the Ministers of Reconciliation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u55	Thank you! Please, Alexander Nechayev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u56	Please give the Bond Alexander a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u57	Please, Alexander Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I don't remember the committee meeting deciding to support the bill as a whole -- that's the first. Because the members of the committee, and indeed rightly so, made their comments on the specification of the list of goods imported in the customs regime for the import of defence products. Under the rhetoric of strong support for all faction members, members of the National Defence-Industry Coalition, we are now uncontrollablely granting tax benefits to A: the benefits of exempting VAT on imports of products and benefits of exemption from payment of import duties of defence-related products. I want to warn you that these benefits may be misused and properly imported products that are in no way related to the production of a defence assignment. According to the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. The product of the defence assignment contains a very broad definition and is not specifically defined by the relevant codes of external economic activity. The Opposition Block faction insists that this benefit be specified, as previously reported, according to the previous reports, according to which the codes were listed so as not to be misused. Secondly, in connection with this observation, we strongly oppose the voting of the bill as a whole, because it violates the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the plenary Hall made observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u59	Thank you. People's Deputy Timchuk, People's Front. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u60	Dmitri Timchuk, People's Front. Regarding the observation of "The Opposition Block." The bill clearly states that these benefits apply only to those nodes and aggregates that will be equipped with weapons and military equipment that go to state defense. Any other samples don't apply, that's the first. Second of all, why do you need this bill anyway? Now I'm wondering, why, for example, would it be cheaper for our army to buy armor somewhere in Poland than to buy from its own manufacturers? This is exactly what we're doing here, and we're answering this question that our defenses should work for the armed formations of Ukraine at exactly the lowest prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. There are no more willing to speak on this subject. We have heard the common position of the people’s deputies on voting on the basis of the bill (registration number 1695). So I'm asking the national deputies to take their jobs. We move to a bill (registration number 1695) called the draft Act amending article 287 of the Ukrainian Customs Code to create favourable conditions for the execution of public defence contracts and contracts (registration number 1695). There is a proposal to vote the bill on the basis. I'm asking the National Deputies to take their jobs! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats! Vote! 1695 - registration number, based on Based on the base. Based on the base. [[11:02:55]] For 275 Thank you. Decision taken. You have before you a bill (registration No. 1694) to amend article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (to create favourable conditions for the execution of contracts and public defence contracts). A proposal is made to consider the bill in a simplified manner. I'd like to make a point, National Deputies, regarding the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:03:38]] For 204 Thank you. Decision taken. Please report to national deputy Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! This bill is derived from what we have just voted on, and this refers to the exemption from taxation for all of the operations related to these components of the defence goods that we exempt from duty, from taxation and from excise duty in the course of unwieldying. You know, when we say that we strongly supported the Ukrainian military-industrial complex when we supported the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I would like to point out one such detail. The detail relates to the provision of 6 billion dollars of government guarantees for the purchase of new weapons. And if you count from the total amount of money, how much money has been allocated to new weapons, that's more than 70 percent. I mean, when we say that we've already financially supported the Ukrainian military and industrial complex, that's not quite the case. Because the mechanism that we convert state guarantees into money does not actually exist, it only works at work. Therefore, it is not necessary to criticize the drafters of the bill today that we are actually exerting pressure on the state budget. Six billion dollars for the purchase of new weapons will be financed, not by the budget of Ukraine, but by other sources, by a dot. So I'm asking you to support this important bill as a derivative of the changes to the Customs Code that we've been supporting today. Because it increases the resilience of the Ukrainian army, it increases the reliability of our weapons, tanks, BTRs, it allows us today to equip our weapons with modern foreign weapons. The imported ingredients that don't break during the fight are the engines that don't go deaf, the targets of the night vision that are moving into Ukraine today are the thermal visions that we're putting on tanks. This is a very important bill and it will really help us defeat the aggressor, the Russian Federation, who today brutally attacked the peace state of Ukraine. If we want to ensure peace -- we have to arm the Ukrainian army in our teeth, we have to build our economy, but first we're going to win the Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is Roman Nasirov, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, as noted earlier, are bound by the laws (1694) and (1695) that amend the Code of Taxation and Customs. The committee fully supports these proposals. And we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Please also add a mandate to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy to prepare the text of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account technical and legal amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u65	Please write: 2 in, 2 in. Please, People's Front, National MP Vitaly Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u66	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u67	Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u68	Victoria Sumar. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, once again, the position of the previous bill. Obviously, what do some things need to be done, but more clearly and in more detail, they need to be worked on in conjunction with the government and with other structures, with the Defense Prome? in order to have a clearer answer to the questions raised by the members of our faction on this matter and by the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, the proposal, Mr. Head, to vote on it as a basis, to continue to hold appropriate consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Stepan Barna, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u71	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, we need to understand clearly that when the people of Ukraine create an army, when volunteers support the army and arm it, including with appropriate technical means, we must also join in on this issue. Basically, most of the tools, such as night vision instruments, the technical elements that our army needs, they supply from abroad. Objectively, we need to understand that the first priority today is to provide our army and to support the work done by volunteers today. So I'm asking you to urgently adopt this law as a basis and by a reduced procedure to adopt it as a whole. This is extremely important and needs all of Ukraine, and it needs the Ukrainian front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u72	Thank you. National Deputy Gusak Vladimir Georgievicz, "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u74	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to point out immediately, since the laws of 1694 and 1695 are interlinked, then Bill No. 1695, which amends the Ukrainian Code of Tax Article 197, is generally not acceptable. That's the first one. It's different. Indeed, Bill No. 1695 does not contain a clear list, as I have already stated, of draft 1694, of that defence-related product which may be exempt from VAT taxation in customs-importing operations and customs-transport operations in Ukraine. Therefore, the faction "The Opposition Block" insists not to violate the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, nor did they accept the bill as a whole, for the first time. Secondly, make appropriate changes to the prescribed bill on the specification of the defence product for which tax benefits may apply. Because it can provoke an uncontrollable, once again, uncontrolled use of tax benefits that are now trying to give in this room to unconscionable importers who can import goods outside customs control. And not vote for him in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u77	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we no doubt support all the bills that go to strengthen the country's security. But just like our coalition colleagues, we advocate that the analysis should be provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This bill is unique in the sense that it is possible to free subjects of entrepreneurial activity rather than the types of products that will be imported directly into the customs territory of the country. This will lead to significant abuses. By no means should we vote for the bill as a whole, analyze it for a corrupt component, and define clearly, according to the product nomenclature, rather than on subjects of entrepreneurial activity that are exempt from taxation. Because this will result when the budget is completely balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, National Deputy Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u79	Hirschfeld Anatoly, 179th District, People's Will Group. I fully support colleagues because it is very important at this stage not only to create conditions for imports but also to clearly differentiate the groups of goods that we will develop in Ukraine by creating a more favourable environment and which we will continue to import. Because without it, we will have an import-dependent defence industry on which the security of the country depends today. I would therefore like to join and clearly define the list of goods for which benefits will be granted. And very dangerous practice is to apply VAT exemption entirely to an enterprise that has different activities, including non-defence. We are creating conditions for the taxpayer to apply various fines to these enterprises tomorrow. That's why the law has to be adopted. On first reading and further refinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Everyone has expressed their position. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's go to the vote. Based on the base. Project registration No. 1694, draft Act amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the creation of favourable conditions for the enforcement of public defence contracts and contracts). The position of all factions expressed. There is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote on acceptance as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote on the basis. [[11:14:23]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of shareholders’ property rights (registration number 1839). A proposal has been made to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please decide on the short-term consideration of the bill. [[11:15:09]] For-189 Decision taken. Please, Deputy Justice Minister Anton Volodymyrovich Yanchuk. A report from the head of the profile committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the project proposes to amend the legislation on shareholders, namely: 3 major changes. First change. It is proposed to change the requirement to the quorum of the general meeting of shareholders from the current rule to not less than 60 percent of voting shares to a rule of more than 50 percent of voting shares. At the same time, it is important to note that this will apply to both simple and privileged shares of both private and state ownership. It should also be noted that according to the Ukrainian Civil Code, all property rights are equal before the law. Accordingly, shareholders should have the same rights in part to determine the quorum of the general congregations, regardless of the form of ownership of the shares. Second proposed change. It is suggested that the rights of shareholders be strengthened to receive dividends. It is proposed to establish a rule that, in the event of non-payment by the dividend shareholders within the set time limit, shareholders can benefit from the possibility of drawing dividends on the basis of the execution of the notary or on the basis of a court order obtained as a result of the order in court. The third and final initiative. It is proposed that general shareholders’ congregations be given the right to make decisions regarding the payment of dividends less than is provided by law. There is currently no such right in the general congregations. And this period is six months, so it cannot be reduced by the decision of the general congregations. Thus, considering what has been said, it is suggested that the project be accepted on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for the second reading by redrafting the situation, taking into account changes made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u82	Please let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u83	Therefore, it is proposed that the project be adopted on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for second reading by redrafting the position with regard to the changes already made by the Act of Ukraine amending article 41 of the Act on Shareholder Associations on the Quorum of Common Congregations of Associations of Shareholders with Majority, Corporate Rights of the State. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u84	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Bill 1839 was considered by the Economic Policy Committee at the February 4th meeting and it was decided by the committee to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u86	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Please, People's Front, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, an extremely important government bill in 1839, aimed at regaining state control over state-owned shareholders. The bill is completely complex. The government has actually developed a document that allows it to regain control over these businesses. All those reproaches that existed before the bill were far from perfect, 1013, which did not provide such an opportunity, which was taken away from the bill. This is a challenge for all of us today, obviously, to the extent that each of us is working in the interests of the State today and in the interest of being able to accumulate the maximum costs that the oligarchs have very often to charge for the benefit of the Ukrainian State to accumulate them in the budget. This applies, in particular, to dividend payments. We call on all our coalition partners to show their commitment to this idea of regaining control of the state over shareholders and supporting the government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I appeal to you with an acquittal to support the bill of government. The government bill, it's up to the citizens who are looking at us right now, is two standards. The first is the rule on the quorum 50 plus 1 since the adoption of the law, from the moment it is published. And the second standard is the obligation to pay dividends. Because today we have a lot of cases where dividends are due but not paid, especially where the government shares. And those who actually run state enterprises today, i.e. the oligarchs, don't pay dividends. This bill, and I'm glad that the government finally, after Parliament has raised this important topic, has finally initiated and introduced to the Supreme Council a bill that actually allows the oligarchs to bind the tail, no matter how the oligarchs are called. That is why we support this bill and turn to the House to vote on it. This is called real deligarchization of the economy. Next, I hope that we will see in the Supreme Council a bill on the nationalization of property, such as television companies belonging to the oligarchs. Then, I hope, in the Supreme Council, we are voting for a bill on the return to state property of nadr, land, etc. Because we have to start the fight, not from the lamest, not from those who don't have enough money, but from the oligaric system of power, and from the economy that's built in our country today, and that's why all Ukrainian citizens are suffering. That's why I urge the Ukrainian Parliament: all, at one time, to fight the oligarchs unanimously, to fight this problem on the body of the Ukrainian society. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u90	Thank you! Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u91	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u92	Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! I want to point out that a month ago we passed a similar bill where we reduced the quorum that was signed and published in official publications. What do we want to do with the bill? We want to make a contradiction as to when the rule on the reduction of the quorum in private equity companies will become effective. If we really want to solve the issue with Skrnaft, we need to support the not-given bill, but the bill that we just put into the agenda of the 2045 day session, which changes exactly to the rule that applies to shareholders' associations of state ownership and, at the moment, to resolve the issue of the Scrooge. This same bill, if we vote for it, we will reduce Ukraine's total investment attractiveness, because, I note that the standards of the bill become effective the day after the day of publication, that is, all of our investors, who at the moment have and plan their business structures and their business plans, will not be able to rebuild and start their business activities in accordance with today's requirements. In addition, I would like to point out that the rules on the payment of dividends and the transfer of parts of corporate disputes to civil courts, the orderly conduct of civil courts, are prescribed in such a way that any disputes, even disputes that arise in shareholders' societies that have not been decided on dividends, can be dealt with in any court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u94	Yuri Voropeyev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, if you read this law, it's small, it's two pages, you'll see there's only two rules. Standard one, I'll start at the end, is a 50 percent drop in the quorum. The Supreme Council has passed the law, the author of Láško, and the President has already signed this rule, this has already been resolved. And rule two, which is in this law, is the return of court disputes on the payment of dividends from business courts to district courts. I would like to remind you that five or six years ago this Supreme Council passed a law, given that we had a huge number of judicial disputes in the regional raiding courts, and said that for the raider to be seen, all corporate disputes should be dealt with in an economic court, only in one, at the place where the enterprise was located. In this case, neither the issuer nor the shareholders can pronounc and wink at judicial decisions that would have been taken in the district courts, to hell with it, where it had been stopped, blocked the operation of enterprises. What will happen now if you vote on this law? Corporate disputes relating to the holding of meetings will be returned to the District Courts on the issue of participation in shareholders'meetings, the issue of the decision of shareholders in the experience of dividends and the payment of dividends. What will be the outcome? The District Court of the City of Jankoi, Jankoi, cannot speak at this time, Kalhsha, for example, will decide to prohibit the payment of the dividends “Ukrnafta” or, for example, another business, or vice versa, quite right. And eventually, this district court decision is going to be sitting on someone's desk, and you won't know anything about it. But at the right time, it will come out and block your same payment of dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u96	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u97	I asked the committee, the representative of Minust and the Securities Commission, what if there were complaints of dividend payments? Nope. It wasn't. For another purpose, the law is necessary for raiding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u98	Please, People's Deputy Rizanenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u99	National MP Rizanenko, Peter Prashenko Block. The bill correctly says that two things are planned to be normalized, one of them is the quorum, the decline from 60 to 50. But I would like to remind you, honourable Members, that just recently we voted on Bill 1310, which has already been reduced to 50 percent. With the only exception that for state-owned enterprises, immediately, and for everyone else, from 1 January 2016. I would like to point out that the Kabminu bill does not take into account that changes have already been made to the relevant articles. The very approach, the lowering of the quorum to 50 for all, is correct and it makes it impossible to apply for recognition of the law as being contrary to the Constitution. So I propose to adopt this bill exclusively in the first reading and to take into account that the Act on Shareholder Associations has been amended by Law 1310. Because he's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u100	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u101	Accepting it in this form of a quorum will not make it work again. I therefore call for a vote only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u103	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Everyone remembers the wonderful growth of the race, which reigned in the country literally five or six years ago. Our decision, which we approved by giving virtually total transparent control over cases where actually the owner of one stock, we took them away from everyone else, we actually made this system transparent. Here, this bill has another norm. And I'm talking to government officials, how could you think of a rule when a notary would be obliged to do so, not only in the district courts but also in the notary? This is a law that will destroy the entire system of shareholders. That's why we insist: don't put him to the vote, to the rejection, to the work, and to put him into the session room, don't play with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u104	Please conclude, Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u105	Honorable National MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comments and criticism, especially for the double reminder of the bill adopted (1310). But what I want to point out is that (1310) is about solving the problem by half, so it's only about the 50 plus 1 flat quorum for enterprises that are in direct state ownership. Our bill proposes that this rule be established for all shareholders, regardless of the form of ownership. Property rights are equal; otherwise, they may be classified as discrimination in some way. Second, on the issue of raiding. It's about giving shareholders a simplified court order to order or by executing a notary's name to decide the issue, to draw dividends exclusively. Any other decisions on the subject. Under these two procedures, the court will not be able to accept. So there are no threats here as such. Thank you very much. Please be supportive. And I would like to point out that we asked him to accept it in the first reading and to work with other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I'd like to hear from the government because it's not about raiding, it's about paying off dividends. These are completely different things. Secondly, if we have declared and applied here to fight the oligarchs, let us fight them, not just, forgive, talk about it and adopt far from perfect laws. We need to improve them. And obviously that's what this bill is called for. There's a proposal from the People's Front: to be adopted as a basis in the first reading of 1839, taking into account the position of Bill 2045, which clears up the inaccuracies of Bill 1013, which has a lot of accusations. We have to clean this up, these inaccuracies, to make it work. Suggestion: In the first reading of the 2045 proposals, vote now, and then seriously elaborate on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u108	Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u109	Dear Mrs. Sumar, I'd like you to hear me. 2045 The Fatherland faction will support it because it continues the ideology supported by the entire hall: making order with the monopolies. But unfortunately, in this bill, which you're asking for in the first reading, and you're talking about order-making, I want to tell you, that's where the totality system comes back when the cases are referred to the local courts. I've referred 83 files to the Attorney General's Office for registration, which haven't been processed in six months. You cannot reset questions to the local level. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u111	We are very grateful to the Cabinet of Ministers for really taking on this important problem that has been bothering us for two months. But we propose that this law be sent for further processing and, in the course of further development, combine the standards of this law with Act No. 2045, introduce a quality joint bill into the hall and vote unanimously and normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The first proposal of a committee of profile to adopt Bill 1839 as a basis. And the proposal of the People's Front to take the 2045 bill into account when preparing for the second reading of this bill. That's the first offer. Now we're going to put it to a vote and determine whether it can be acceptable. So please take your seats, ladies and gentlemen. Let's get ready for the vote. Please take your seats. Prepare to vote. Proposals for voting for a bill (registration number 1839) are tabled only on the basis of preparation for the second reading of the provisions contained in bill 2045. That's how the proposal was made. When preparing for second reading. Please vote in 1839 as a basis. In preparation for the second reading on the drafting of the bill and regulation 2045. [[11:36:17]] For 175 The decision is not taken. We're going back to the draft bill and we're going to vote on the next proposal, as far as I can see. Please refer to the return to review in 1839. If we don't come back now, he'll be considered rejected. Please refer to the draft. To return. Return! [[11:36:58]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! There's no word for "procedure." The bill is rejected. We have the next bill 2045. And I gave the commission to the committee to review it immediately and to bring it to the hearing of the Ukrainian Parliament. At the evening meeting. Please, Your Honor, 1839 dismissed. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for bill 1647 to be considered after the break, as the reporter approached the faction of Parliament. I don't think we need to vote, we just have to move. A bill, registration number 0919, is being submitted for your consideration. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on price (tariff), second reading. Please report to the chairman of the committee, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u113	Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, please report. Draft law 0919. But before that, I ask you to. Prepared for consideration of the bill 0919. Yes, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u114	Dear Sir, honourable national MPs, this bill is a transitional from a previous call. We looked at it on the committee. There was one amendment that the committee didn't take into account, so I'm asking you to support the committee's decision and to support the bill in a second reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u115	I would like to say that of all the amendments that have been made, only one amendment has been rejected and is there a need for each amendment to go separately, honourable deputies? There's no need. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the bill and vote. Therefore, please vote on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian tariff laws, 0919. Please determine by vote. Please vote. [[11:40:18]] For 206 Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u116	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. This is a bill that regulates pricing and tariffs not only for NCRE but also for the approval of the economic justification of Mineconomy. The request to return to the vote after all. All adjustments are included. This makes it possible to double-check that monopolies do not use their rights as monopolies. No offense, I'm sorry. Therefore, the request to return again. I see a lot of people haven't been able to vote. This bill is very important, and it deals with a number of issues that will enable control of the actual order of pricing and tariffs for monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u117	Thank you. There's an offer from Sergey Soboljeva to return. Who else would like to comment on this? Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u118	Dear friends! I'm also asking you to go back to voting on this bill because some MPs just didn't make it into the hall and we see that all the factions supported and didn't vote. I ask you to put the bill to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u119	Thank you. I would also like to give the floor to Alexander Kugel, after which a proposal will be put to the vote. Please turn on the microphone, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to support this bill because for two years, for two years, we and the entrepreneurship committee have been trying to raise the population tariff. And understanding today the qualifications of the NCRE Commission, it has no ability to work separately from the government, understanding the political responsibility and ours with you as coalitions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u121	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come into the hall and take your seats. This is not an acceptable situation when so many deputies do not participate in the direct work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to ask those MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall right now and get ready to vote. So a proposal came from Sergey Soboljev to return to the vote for Bill 0919. And so I ask the MPs to identify themselves on this proposal. Mr. noun, please take your place in the voting room. So for the return to Bill 0919, please determine how to vote. [[11:43:29]] For 281 We see what high potential there is in the voting room. That is why I am revoting the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on price and tariffs. Draft law 0919. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to determine by vote. Please vote. [[11:44:03]] For 284 Thank you. The law is passed. Now I wanted to consult with you. We have the following draft in second reading, but this may significantly delay our work, as the rapporteur for Bill 1647, Olga Cervakova, has not yet come to the session room for a report. I wanted to consult you (we've already moved him) to consult with you. Are we going to go to Bill 1423, or are we just going to announce a little bit faster for the consultation? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, let's move on to 1423, there's an offer. Next, Olga Cervakov appeared, and so we can theoretically now consider Law 1647. Is it accepted? You're in, right? That's why I'd like to invite Olga Cervakov to the floor. But before that, I would like to ask the room to support the proposal to review the bill in a simplified manner. So please support this proposal by voting. Please. [[11:45:30.]] For 214 Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Social Morality 1647 is therefore under consideration. And he is invited to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy – Cervakov Olga Valeriyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The proposed bill, number 1647, provides the prerequisites for the elimination of the National Commission for the Protection of Social Morality. This is the most indistinguishable state structure that, in its 10 years of existence, has only been remembered by scandalous decisions, attempts to ban the Simpsons ’ cartoons, the Scribin’s song, and the search for pornography in artwork. According to Minsk, the National Moral Expert Committee has no separate subject of regulation. What does that mean? This means that it only duplicates the functions of other government authorities. The purpose of the bill is to improve public oversight in the field of social morality. That is, the elimination of such duplication and confusion as the result of such duplication of functions. Another purpose of this bill is to save public funds. Over the past five years, the commission has spent the same answer to a public organization's request, 30 million dollars, that is, 6 million dollars a year. The liquidation of the National Moral Commission is also a requirement of a coalition agreement, and the bill was introduced at the request of public organizations that demanded the liquidation of such a commission as nonsense. I would like to point out that this is absolutely not about halting state control over the protection of social morality, or that this state control is only getting stronger.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u123	10 seconds or 20 seconds to finish the speech, please, for Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u124	It is stipulated in the law of nine state authorities who have the right to exercise such supervision and to carry out legal expertise. While an expert on the National Commission on Morals, lawyers, lawyers, and many face it in daily practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u125	Please allow me to complete Mrs. Olga's report. But please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u126	The committee’s experts are legally worthless, unable to apply them to both administrative and criminal matters. So I'm asking the people's deputies, please don't identify morals and a moral commission, where it's not just the same things, it's the opposite. When it was the Dignity Revolution, the Commission of Morality did not make any decisions, it sat down on November 28th, and the next time it met on February 27, and its first decision was to allow it to play computer games under the conditions of compliance with Ukrainian legislation and to recognize Taras Shevchenk as a national hero of Ukraine. In order just to give you one last argument in favor of the liquidation of this commission, I want to show you the head of this commission, Vasil Kosticsky, to the militia personnel, dated 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u127	Olya, we can't make it. Please let Mrs. Ollie finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u128	On December 17, 2013, after the brutal beating of the militia of peaceful demonstrators, Vasil Kosticki writes, "Military Workers' Day," hailing militiamen with a professional holiday is a celebration of those who, without whose help, are most often unable to achieve a successful outcome of preserving peace and harmony in society. He addresses them and says, on behalf of the National Commission of Experts on the Protection of Social Morality, the honorable knights of law and order, warmly greet you with a professional holiday. On the same day, news is telling us that Jews are taking care of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and demanding Zacharychenk's resignation for savage beatings of students and for not investigating cases against those who did. So let's stop this speculation on moral issues. Once this commission is eliminated, nothing will disappear and there will be no moral Armageddon, only government oversight will be arranged and the eyes will disappear, as said by Mikola Azarov, the "uppers and curves" that are simply speculative at the expense of the state. In times of war, this is simply not possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in, two for, two against. So you're invited to the word in the debate of Timoshenko Yuri, the People's Front. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u130	Dear friends, there's nothing to talk about for a long time. The Commission has shown that it has done nothing specific to protect morals in Ukraine and requires immediate elimination. You also need to define some structure that will be more specifically involved in this matter, because where seven moms are not played there. Establish stricter standards of morality in the state and take away licenses from TV channels that violate these standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Please welcome me from the Self-Help faction of Podlisecki, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u132	I beg you to pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! At a time when we're severely reducing the social package for our citizens, while we're in the middle of a tough negotiation with the International Monetary Fund, when we have to keep every penny and think about our military in the East. We consider it appropriate to support the position that relates to the efficient use of tax payers' budgetary resources. We also stress that the law on the preservation of social morality must be followed and all bodies whose activities are aimed at monitoring the implementation of legislation should work very hard. So please support this bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u134	Thank you. "Peter Prashenko's Block," Irina Heratchenko gives the word Yuri Lucenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are now dealing with the issue of non-preservation of social morality, it certainly must be. We now have the opportunity to eliminate the ugly child of Chernevski, who has come up with a completely incomprehensible body that deals with completely incomprehensible things for the pleasure of this body. So there's a proposal to vote in favour of all the halls, supporting the fact that morality in society has to be raised, not by individual individuals, but by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u136	Thank you. There's still a request from the Radical Party faction to give a word, they didn't get on the list. And I give the word Igor Mosiychuku of the Radical Party. Please turn on the microphone. Igor Mosiyczuk, microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u137	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We certainly support this bill, because the National Moral Commission is a completely parasitic body that, apart from eating budget, does nothing. Moreover, this body has disgraced not only itself but the very idea of moral integrity and moral protection in Ukrainian society. In this regard, we consider it necessary to support the bill as a basis and as a whole, as it is not necessary and common sense, a complete body should be eliminated, and the sooner we and more government funds are economically viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u138	Thank you. And to conclude, the Committee's chairman is invited to address this issue, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Victoria Sumar, for some clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that no State can somehow coordinate or control morals. An organ that costs three million dollars to taxpayers who decides what pornography is, which is eroticism, is too much of a luxury for Ukraine in times of war. The committee decided to support the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u140	I think all the positions on this subject have already been spoken, can we vote, yes, dear colleagues? I hear they're making a proposal on the ground as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. All I can do is put a motion for a vote, and Parliament is determined whether on the basis or on the whole. Please prepare for the vote. Bill No. 1647 is brought to your attention: draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of Social Morality (on State Oversight) (Registration No. 1647). On the basis and in general, I ask you to vote, on the basis and in general. Fellows, identify yourselves. [[11:57:54]] For 245 People’s deputies were determined to make 245 decisions. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules, I have a 30-minute recess to announce. So we continue our session at 12.30 p.m. I'm asking you not to be late. At 12:30, we're starting a Parliamentary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please move from the towers to the conference room to continue your work. The secretaryate, the heads of the factions, please invite the deputies into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. I'm asking you to take your seats so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we've got less than a day's work left. There is a suggestion that we continue our work until all issues of order are exhausted. I'd like to make this offer. Prepare to vote now. National deputies, please take your seats. Take your jobs, dear colleagues, please. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Can we vote? Can we? As for the continuation of the workday until the end of the day. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:17:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are working until the day is over. I'd like all the national deputies to come to the hall. I'd like to inform you, dear colleagues. The draft Decree, registration number 2083, is being submitted to your consideration. Draft Decision "Acquiescing Ukraine's President of Jarema Vitali Grigorovitch of the post of Attorney General of Ukraine." There's an application for resignation, there's an appropriate submission, there's a registered draft decision. I ask you to prepare for the vote on the adoption of the entire draft decree. Registration number 2083, draft regulation on granting approval for the release of Vitalia Grigorovitch, President of Ukraine, from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of this order. In general, I would like to vote in general on the resignation of the Attorney General. [[13:18:19]] For 291 Decision taken. Draft Decision granting approval for the release of Vitalia Grigorovitch, President of Ukraine, from the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, registration number 2083. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask everyone to come into the hall. The President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, participates in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the President. [[Applause]] President of Ukraine Peter Poroshenko. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, national deputies, to yours. Let's welcome Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, your consideration is under draft Decree No. 2084 on the granting of approval for the appointment of President of Ukraine Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. Until the President's approval. Under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is agreement to appoint the President of Ukraine as the Attorney General of Ukraine. Accordingly, the President submitted the appointment of Viktor Mikolaiovich as Attorney General of Ukraine. To this end, there is a special procedure for dealing with the issue, namely: a statement by the President of Ukraine, a speech by a professional committee, a statement by a candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, an answer to the question, and a discussion. The Rules define both the procedures and the time we spend on this. If there's no objection, let's move on to this issue of the agenda. I invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear National Deputies! Circumstances force us to work in conditions of rigidity. I'm not going to waste my mind on a tree. And I wanted to say, first of all, after your vote, that now the former Attorney General of Vitaly Jarem wrote, when he wrote his resignation application, it was an act that clearly marked the formation of a new political culture in the country. Never. [[Applause]] I would point out that this has never been the way of a dialogue between Parliament, the President and the Attorney-General. And this action deserves respect. It is clear that the initiative of Vitalia Grigorovovich and my decision was among other things the result of a broad political debate both in society and in this Chamber of the Attorney General's Office. People’s discontent is evident, and at times it is rational, and at times it is built on emotions, on a naked nerve. And people's emotions are very easy to understand. They have the right to do so. And we need to hear people. The unhealed wound of Maidan hurts everyone, and so do I. Like a man who, from the early days or hours of Eromaydan, was a student, December 1 (Grader) and February 18 (Marián’s Park), February 19 (nights under the House of Trades), 20 and up to 22, when the authority of the former fled the country in disgrace. I am confident that I can personally join people's wishes and criticisms that those who have committed crimes in Maidan, those involved in corrupt devices, should be immediately called to account. And this is a task for all law enforcement agencies: to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the Ukrainian Security Service, before, I hope, the most recently created Anti-Corruption Bureau. They have to work as the only mechanism and respond to people's thoughts, because it's also a sign of democracy and real change in the country. This is a sign of our strength with you, because you and I are building a country of democracy and freedom, but that means that every crime must be punished and investigated and held accountable must be irreversible. Yes, under the procedure, yes, under the law, the Criminal Procedure Code, but punishment must be irreversible. But only black and white paint is not enough to paint a picture of the prosecutor's work. In my evaluations, I rely on a comprehensive analysis, both subjective calculations and objective circumstances, and I know what the team of the Attorney General did well, and where they did not complete. I feel better and faster, but we don't have the Visinian times, but the European calendar and they have a clear processual standard, which, however, consumes a lot of time and excludes rapid action. But I can see, honestly, when the prosecutor's office has been mutilated, when the results of their work are shattered by the unwillingness to work, and when the effective work of the prosecutor's office is broken down into the rock of an unreformed or unreformed judicial system. So if I take this opportunity, I urge you not to delay, and as we agreed to, this week, vote on the first law of judicial reform in the second reading. And I have the right to say it. Because a few days ago, I informed you about the launch by the Ukrainian Security Service of a network of security agents of a neighboring state called the Batalion Brotherhood. And thank you, commanders of the battalions, who from the rostrum of the Supreme Council have separated themselves from this, and have helped the security forces to uncover this rebellion. I'd like to inform you that yesterday our non-reformed criminal court released the criminals. And I can't deal with it either as President or as Commander-in-Chief, and I'm sure, and most of it in this room. And we have to work together with you and be determined not to give any opportunity to criminals to avoid just punishment. So I urge you to work 24 hours a day and make an extremely important decision. Turning to the topic of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I remind you that it was during the work of Vitalia Grigorovovich Jaremi that the Attorney-General was able to help the President's initiative to finally adopt the Public Prosecutor's Act and, by the way, the initiatives of many in this room, the Act that deprived the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation of the Russian Federation. Since then, it's been a long time to assess the scale of this change, but I think it's a very important, very important component of the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will be continued in the near future. In April months, there will be further changes in the power of the prosecutor’s office to allow us to build an effective European and legal state. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to have a quick look at it, and please support my appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine Victor Shokin. He had already met most factions, and I'm sure he made a good impression on most of them. I myself know Victor Mikolaiovich, I think for over 15 years and his professional experience, and a good reputation became the main factors that determined my choice. In addition to his profession, he has something that provides for a man’s permanent character. He proved it in 2003, when, in investigating Gongadze's case with a risk for his own, I'm not afraid of that word, of freedom, I kept the entire evidence base, which then allowed us to do the first phase of the Gongadze case and bring the perpetrators to justice, it was his team. He also proved this in 2005 when, immediately after the Orange Revolution, there were active action on separatist trends, the so-called North Donnie convention, the convention. If he had been brought to the end, I think it would have been a good prevention of that separatist bacillus, which has now resulted in extremely severe consequences. I've had more than one long conversation with the applicant. Of course, the punishment for the Maydan killing remains Victor Mikolaiovich, the chief task of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. [[Applause]] It's the test you're going to take, not just you and not just the Attorney General's Office, it's the test that the country has to pass. And I'm sure it was another shot to make sure that the authorities never use the force to fight democracy again. Finally, matters other than those transferred should be expedited, including the opportunities offered by the legislator for the trial of Janukovič and his organized criminal group. For today, all the conditions have been created for you. I expect that with the appointment of the new Attorney General, the matter will not be limited and changes will be made, including personnel changes in the Henprocurator's vertical. I won't deny it if there's a decision to involve foreign professionals in the Office of the Attorney General. However, the changes in the Public Prosecutor's Office are not just a matter of personnel, but they should be systematic, because the removal of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine of general oversight, the fight against corruption among the highest-ranking civil servants, we are handing over to the Anti-Corruption Bureau and I also hope that the Supreme Council will find the strength to compromise in preparing for the second reading of the Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. I have great suspicion that in the way that it is now, we are simply giving the opportunity to initiate the work of this body and run this law. The people will not forgive us yet another delay in both the judicial system and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. I am confident that effective work and coalitions and the entire Parliament will be able to find this compromise. Why? Because today is the last day to apply for a competition commission that forms the Anti-Corruption Bureau. As I promised you, there is no intervention by the President or the Administration, no one, in the work of a competitive commission. And we're going to do everything we can to demonstrate the effectiveness of how the public is involved in the formation of human resources. I very much hope that this work will be effective and I look forward to the names of the few people who will be nominated for this extremely important and extremely responsible position. So in the hands of Parliament and changes to legislation that can make the work of the bureau more effective. A few words about the situation in which we have to make this important decision. 25 minutes ago, the Tornado jet fire system in Kramatorski was hit by the Sarmatu, our headquarters of the Anti-Terrorism Operation. The impact was inflicted on headquarters, but the second gulp fell, found itself in the residential quarters of Kramatorska, which is now in the back. We did not even give ATO status to those serving in Kramatorsk, Slovenia, or Kramatorsk. And today there are reports of wounded military personnel, there are reports of significant injuries among the civilian population. Friends, and the situation in which the country is now and the responsibility that lies with me, both as the Commander-in-Chief and as a Parliament, requires unity and responsibility. I'm sure that this is the approach we will demonstrate when we vote on the laws, and this is the approach that will be demonstrated in the defence and security of our nation. Thank you for your attention. I hope you have a positive decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. I invite you to speak to the candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Mikolaiovich Shokin. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u145	Dear Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine, the People's Deputies, I will fully appreciate the responsibility I am taking at this time of emergency if I am appointed Attorney-General of Ukraine. Yesterday and today, I was able to communicate directly with you, with the Ukrainian National Deputies, to hear their thoughts, suggestions and wishes. I would like to express my sincere thanks to everyone, without exception, to all the Ukrainian national deputies who have found the time to do so and have participated in the discussions, and I would like to assure you that if I have been appointed by the Attorney-General of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the law and the Constitution, I will pay particular attention to the implementation of the priorities that you have set. One of the priorities of my work at the very beginning is the conclusion and referral of all criminal conduct in relation to crimes committed during the Dignity Revolution, as well as the high-level employees involved in the criminal activity of the Yanukovich regime, the return of all the funds that have been stolen into the state. And I would like to emphasize in particular that this applies to all the high-level owners of that criminal regime. I would like to point out that, in my work, I will work with all the factions of the Supreme Council to resolve all the issues relating to the Attorney General's authority. This also applies to the introduction of the new Procurator's Act, the implementation of the Law on the Cleaning of Power, the openness and access of MPs and the public to human resources issues in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I believe that the important issues of human resources solutions without you, without public participation, are impossible. I am confident that with your support together we will be able to take real steps to overcome corruption in the state, to strengthen the rule of law and the rule of law. I would like to assure the President of Ukraine, all those present in my sincere desire to take all the measures that have been decided by law aimed at establishing peace in the country, preserving the territorial integrity of the State, overcoming the manifestations of secession and terrorism, ensuring democracy, human rights and freedoms and citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u146	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, by procedure, please, we can ask questions, let's take 10 minutes. Please, I would like to enroll the heads of factions and groups for a question to a candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u147	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, we know you as a professional, honest person who has devoted most of her life to the work of the prosecutor's office, so our parliamentary group will support your candidacy. [[Applause]] But at the same time, I want to. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to ask you about a staff warehouse that's in the D.A.'s office. If such experts remain in the prosecutor’s office, to put it mildly, unclean in hand, such as Deputy Danilenko and other workers who are now in high positions in this office, nothing will change. They cover up corruption on customs, they do the things they do today. It's embarrassing to do that today. So let's answer the question as to how much cleaning is going to be in these. There will be a "cleaning" of the ranks in the prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u148	Thank you. I'll give you an update on these questions. First of all, Danilenko's been released from the prosecutor's office today. Secondly, all the co-workers of the prosecutor's office, who will not come to the Law on the Cleaner of Power, will be released immediately. In addition, I plan to carry out new appointments for the Deputy Attorney-General, especially with regard to the prosecution's investigation and supervision. This is going to be very fast because we don't have time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, National Deputy Solovay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u150	Yuri Solovay, MP's Strike, Peter Prashenko's Block. Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, I fully support you with the priorities you have put forward, first and foremost with regard to the crimes in Maidan, about the theft by the Yanukovich gang of funds during their reign. But in addition, I would like you to pay attention to those conspirators of separatist acts both in Crimea and in eastern Ukraine, through which we have these events. So I have a direct question to you, are there going to be people architects of the Yanukovich regime like Medvedchuk, Ahmetov, Ephraim and others like them, still going free, or are you going to pay attention to them? And the Attorney General's Office is seriously and completely starting to deal with this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u151	Thank you. I want to assure you all that all those who are involved in any way will be punished for criminal acts during the Dignity Revolution and for the actions of the Janukovic criminal group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u152	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u153	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, I have a question that relates to the events of the special aggravation of the situation of attacks by Russian and terrorist groups today, virtually all over the front line. You know how many parliaments have done to involve international judicial institutions in order to punish all those who gave orders to attack the sovereign state of Ukraine, including the superior leadership of the Russian Federation. Are you prepared to hand over to the International Criminal Court in The Hague in the shortest possible terms all the materials as to those who have committed crimes – Yanukovic and his team, and all those who are now, in fact, attacking the sovereign state. And I have a second wish. All those who praise you so much right now should not be outside the law, including the national deputies who sit in this room. I would like you to treat all citizens the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u154	Thank you. I've already said, and once again I want to apologize that responsibility applies to everyone without excluding the deputies who were before, who are now, unfortunately, if so. All the high-ranking men who committed crimes against Maidan, against the state of Ukraine. Regarding the transfer of materials. Unfortunately, I learned so quickly that I was running into this position that I did not have access to the criminal cases that were brought before the Attorney General's Office and I could not at present give an exact answer when I could. I will study these questions, and within a short period of time this will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Vadim Rabinovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Shokin, I believe you must be supported primarily because you are a Ukrainian citizen, and we, Praise God, have finally found a man who can be put to the fight against corruption. Second. I'd like us to separate the seeds from the weeds. Please really put in this hall who is a criminal, we will all vote that honest people remain here. And third. I want to tell you that today there's a lot of fire in the Curve Horn. No action is taken for two weeks. Please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u157	I promise you this will happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u158	Please, Radical Party, Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u159	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, the question of such a plan. Mr. President, the President has focused attention on the opposition of the judiciary to reforms and the needs of the country today. Are you prepared to submit to this court for judges who break the law that circumvent the law? And the second is a very short question. Who personally in the Attorney General's Office will be responsible for investigating the crimes in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u160	Thank you. At present, it has been created, a special group of investigators, who are only involved in the field affairs, but only in the case. Unfortunately, I know what the state of affairs is now, because I didn't smoke this question, this direction of work, but this, as I said, is going to be a priority, first, to study all field affairs. And then this conclusion will be drawn. He'll be in charge of the D.A.'s investigation. But I personally take responsibility for the fact that these crimes will be fully investigated and brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u162	I beg you, Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u163	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u164	In 2005, after the revolution, society gave the Attorney General a chance to defeat criminals. You were in charge of an investigation at the Attorney General's Office. You were the Attorney General's deputy. I remember that at that time you personally told me as a journalist that you would give me a month, and Kiwalov and the Centre would sit down. Why didn't it work? Why didn't it work out with other things? And what are the chances that this is going to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u165	Thank you for your question and for your memory. In fact, you were right, I wasn't making a promise, I was saying, if there were grounds for bringing Kiwalov to justice, I would. Sadly, though, if you remember, all of us were released, and we left, you know where. First. It's different. I said, and I'll say it again for everyone, including the Self-Help faction. That I will certainly do my utmost to punish all high - ranking workers who are guilty of such fines. And so it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u166	Thank you. Paul Ungurian, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u167	Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, I have a few questions from our faction. First of all, I'd like to ask you to name a specific date if you could give a specific report to the Supreme Council with specific charges against those who are responsible for the shootings of peaceful people in Midan and who are guilty of that terrible corruption and who are under parliamentary immunity. Also important is the issue of criminal offences against the Crimea, of those illegally crossing borders on the annexed Crimea Peninsula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u168	Thank you. I've already said that I had nothing to do with any criminal case against seniors, nothing to do with the Maydan investigation, because it's being conducted by the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I over-thermally said that this is my priority, I'm going to study all the cases that are implemented and related to field crimes. At present, I do not know what their volume is, how they have worked for almost a year. So that's exactly why I can't tell you. I'll do it over the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u169	Thank you. Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich, for the answers to the questions. Thank you for the questions raised. Dear fellow national MPs! Please. From the factions, please, the factions will speak in a two-minute manner. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u170	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today I express the view of the faction that has decided to support Mr. Shokin's presidential candidacy as Attorney General. But not only do I act as the head of the faction, but I also act as the person who knows the candidate for more than a year. I can tell you briefly, as long as Mr. Shockin worked in the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the IMF, which I had the opportunity to lead in 2005, acted against crime. After he got out of there, it all came down to the whole "peek." I mean, the last. I also want to say that we should thank the previous Attorney General, Vitalia Jaremi, for having set a good pace for crime in the last month, that will be the truth. And thank him for the courageous act that enabled him to continue his affairs without the conflict, sometimes the hysterical situation that the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine was in. Nevertheless, I will tell you the truth, as I am told, Mr. Jarem was led by a staff policy: it is impossible to clean the country with the dirty hands of faithful dictatorial dogs who are still sitting in places. The Peter Prashenko faction expects the new Attorney General to make specific cases. First. Updates of prosecutors in places and in the center: no one serving Yanukovic should run the prosecutor’s office. The other one. We are looking forward to the speedy submission of the removal of parliamentary immunity from those who have sat down as thieves with matters in this room, and this does not apply only to opposition. Third. We are waiting for blows not only by specific officials but also by thief schemes that are being restored as hydras with new heads, in the new Ukraine, we are awaiting punishment and the culprits, and the breakup of these thieving schemes. If this is done, the MP Corps, I think the entire coalition will support the Attorney General with changes to the law and deserved applause. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u171	Thank you! Please, People's Front, Victoria Sumar. Then there's the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! The consideration of this issue is obviously taking place at an unforgivable time in the background of a series of challenges: on the one hand, we have a very tense situation in the East, on the other hand, we understand, a week later, the end of Midan and the Ukrainian society would very much like to see the culprits in the shooting of the Celestial 100 at the hands of the defendants. This hasn't happened, and it's obvious that for you and I today, the test, as we're going to do, will all achieve together. Because today's challenge for you and me is whether we can be effective, whether we can act together, is a staff proposal from the President of Ukraine. And today is a test for us whether we have a coalition that can support the actions of the President and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which we have been assigned to do together. Only when we act together can we resist the one enemy that we have today and that we have to fight against is the Russian Federation. Without that, we allow the situation to unfold from below. So for us to consider this issue is, first of all, the issue of internal political stability and the question of the unity of Ukrainian power. But at the same time, it's really important when Ukrainians see the Henprosecutors as effective. Will we see here the submission of criminal responsibility and those people who are now hiding behind parliamentary mandates? Will we see effective investigations and answers to questions, and who gave the orders, and who directly shot the Celestial 100? We don't have time, Mr. Victor, and we're not gonna have to do what we did for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u173	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u174	And it's not going to be one year, as it was with Vitaly Jarem, it's going to have to be done as quickly as possible. And this is the time of both Victor Shokin and our parliamentary coalition with you, let us keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u176	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, Mr. President, dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction has decided not to vote for Victor Shokin’s candidacy for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine, introduced by Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Let me explain to the Ukrainian citizens why. For a long time, along with Jarema, Victor Shockin worked as deputy, and like Jarem, Shockin is responsible for the absence of results from the activities of the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine. One. The other one. Victor Shokin, 63 years old, I think you could find a much younger, more active, more energetic person working 48 hours a day, fighting crime and corruption. Third. Victor Shokin has worked for many years in the system of the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine and is the founder of this system. The Attorney General's Office, the authorities of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office in general, are those who use the least support in the Ukrainian society, so the system of prosecutor's offices should change the new person. That's why, along with Jegor Sobolev and other people's deputies, we've registered a bill today that provides for the election of the Attorney-General in the same way as it is proposed to elect the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, in an open manner, publicly, with the participation of the public. I would also like to say that everyone remembers the anniversary of the Maidan. This anniversary of events in Maidan shows, unfortunately, that there is no radical change in the fight against corruption. And when Comrade Sumar tells us that we have the main enemy of Putin, we do not! We have several main enemies. The first is external aggression, the second is internal, it's corruption. Instead of fighting corruption, it is produced by the Attorney General’s Office. Instead of destroying corruption, they cover corruption. In a year, we can't bring in those who killed our brothers. In a year, you can't do that, especially in the same system of prosecutors. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u177	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u178	I'll tell you what, if we don't start changing ourselves, we won't change the country. So I'm talking to President Dusty, let Victor Shockin work for two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u179	Ten seconds, finish up, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u180	Have Mr. Shockin do the Attorney General's work for two weeks, show the result if he shows, then we'll vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u181	Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. Are there no more wantrs of factions? And please, "Fatherland" Sergei Sobolev after and the head of the profile committee, let's sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u182	Mr. President! Dear colleagues! First of all, we want to thank the procurator-general for his strong, willful, officerly actions, and we thank him for his principled position. It's really European. [[Applause]] Second, gentlemen, we had a conversation yesterday, a two-and-a-half-hour conversation with Mr. Victor Shokin -- an experienced, strong prosecutor who is professional and willing. Ladies and gentlemen, it looks like you're supporting the President today, but the self-help faction will vote against it. Why? Not because we don't need a strong, professional attorney general. We need a strong, professional, free independent Attorney General who will serve the nation but will not depend on the coordinate system in which he is raised. Perhaps that is why it happened in Ukraine today that for 24 years we went out with assignments because of conjunctural moments. Perhaps today, the war of violence against the Ukrainian nation should force us to change our approach to the appointment of key persons in our country. We pay, honorary colleagues, expensive prices, we pay, and we continue to pay an expensive price to support this style of government in our country. So we're going to vote "against," but not against Shokin, we're going to vote against a system of coordinates that today doesn't justify the hope of Ukrainian people and doesn't punish those who destroyed the Ukrainian state in 24 years of its independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u183	Sergey Sobolev "Fatherland", please, then, Andrew Cosemykin, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u184	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor's colleagues! I think our faction is the hardest to come by. Because the number of political orders that have been made against each of us in previous regimes, both Kuchma and Yanukovich and Yushchenko, is enough. Victor Mikolaiovich. I think you're going to have a decisive moment today. And when my colleagues here talk about the independence of the Attorney General, this independence can only be guaranteed by one -- it's like at least 350 votes in this room. When the exchange starts now: we either vote or we don't give, and the culinary arrangements, I think it's going to be the worst example of how they try to solve the most important issue of the day. [[Applause]] We trusted the Attorney General's Office by creating the Military Prosecutor's Office. I think this piece of work today is going to be the most definitive. But there's another piece of work. For you, there must be one principle: it's not your friends, it's national MPs, it's anybody else. The key principle is that all who do not occupy their seats in the past or who do not occupy them today should answer. This will be the independence of the Attorney General. I'm doing the same thing for young people to come to the Attorney General's Office. But, Victor Mikolaiovich, you have nothing left to lose. You know perfectly well that this is your final term at the Attorney General's Office. If that's the term, and we hope that this term will be the last for those who are now hiding in Russia in Rostov-na-Don or under MPs and other mandates. That's why the faction has made a decision: we will support you, and we give this country a chance to determine whether it will be real.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u185	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u186	I wonder if there will be a simulation of this fight, as we have seen in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, head of the profiling committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u188	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Chairman, colleagues! Today, the Committee on Law Enforcement in the morning, at its meeting, considered a draft decision by the President of Ukraine on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Šokin Viktor Mikolaiovich, as Attorney General. The above-mentioned project, the President of Ukraine asks the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree to the appointment of Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovic as Attorney General of Ukraine. After discussing the draft decision for the appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the National Deputies expressed a number of wishes and, first of all, expressed their thanks to former Prosecutor General Jaremi Vitali Grigorovich, who, in fact, as a insistent officer, was not at first afraid to join this body, in which he had never worked, the honourable, to the Attorney General's Office, to help us adopt the Prosecutor's Office Act and today honestly and frankly say that he was not ready to work there. Next. We wished for the Attorney General's future. such wishes were expressed. First. It is as soon as possible to investigate the crimes committed by the authorities in Midan. This time. The other one. We wished that the Hague Court would eventually have the material about the crimes and crimes that terrorists today are making in Ukraine. Because when they ask international agencies where these documents are, where these materials are, and they're not. We asked Viktor Mikolaiovich to take this matter under personal control. And the third. Of course, we asked. They expressed their desire to start reforming and implementing the Law on Public Prosecutions today. Therefore, after discussing this issue at the hands of Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich, members of the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Decision authorising the President of Ukraine, Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich, to serve as the Attorney General of Ukraine ("Za – 11 members of the Committee, v – 1, held – 2) on the basis and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u189	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Dear National Deputies! Present at the meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'd like to invite Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u190	Dear Mr. President! Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I think it is right for the entire parliamentary coalition, regardless of what the debate is, to support the constitutional submission of the President of Ukraine regarding the appointment of Ukraine's new Attorney General. Indeed, there is no time in the Attorney General or in the Ukrainian authorities for order. And according to history, in this case, if we don't have the general prosecutors, Parliament has constitutional powers to change the relevant officials appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm asking the Parliamentary Coalition, and I'm convinced that the People's Front faction, as always, will unanimously support the President of Ukraine's proposal to appoint Mr. Shokin's Attorney General. I would also like to ask the members of Parliament to return to the Act on State Control over Shareholders' Societies (probably not all of them have just pushed the buttons) and to vote on the bill as well as to vote on the Law on the Responsibility of Bank Owners – for the associated lending, for the withdrawal of funds from banking institutions and for the State to then be held accountable for the owners of banks that have robbed banking institutions. And if Parliament, and convinced that Parliament and the coalition will support the head of state to appoint a new Attorney General of Ukraine, the prosecutor will have appropriate tools to restore control over both state ownership and the criminal responsibility of the owners of the banks that have caused damage to the state and citizens of Ukraine. Please support the President's application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u191	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, we will now identify ourselves with the question of voting and supporting the President's appointment of a new Attorney General. But I want to point out before that. We have challenges of corruption, we have pending cases that concern every Ukrainian citizen today. Today, there is a person standing in this rostrum who assumes a high responsibility to bring these matters to a logical conclusion, to condemn those who are guilty of killings, who are responsible for the birth of corrupt schemes, and many other issues that are on time today. And the Attorney General of Ukraine needs support not just now, but needs support in his activities. I think we have to feel and see the results of this activity very soon. That's why I'm also asking all my fellow national MPs to support the President's application. Registration number 2084, draft Ordinance granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Šokin Viktor Mikolaiovich, to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. On the basis and in general. Please support this motion for a ruling, and please vote, Your Honor. Vote. [[14:07:50]] For 318 Welcome to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u192	Declare the results of the vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u193	Victor Mikolaiovich Shokin with a choice. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, national deputies. "Block of Petra Dustenka" - 140, People's Front. And you don't scream, deputy of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u194	Announce, let the people know!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u195	You fellows, take your seats and behave yourself. Peter Poshenko's Block – 140, People's Front – 63, Opposition Block – 32, Self-help – 1, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 14, will – 19, Economic Development – 18, non-fractional – 31. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A break of 30 minutes is announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u196	The privilege is announced under the Regulation by 4: 00 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u197	Please proceed to the Hall to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please come in and take your jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of our work, she asks for the words of the President-in-Office in charge of the peace settlement at Donbassa, our fellow MP, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. You know there are heavy fighting in the ATO area today. Our troops, both the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard, are on their way to the South. At the same time, there are very difficult battles near Debaltz’s. And from that point of view, Mrs. Irina will make a statement. And so I ask everyone to listen carefully to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko's statement. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, at the direction of the President of Ukraine, I would like to provide you with updated information on the tragedy that occurred today in Kramatarski, which was shot by the fighting forces. So the missiles, probably they're manufacturing, we understand which country, whether it's Tornado-C, or Smerch, came to Kramatorsk, a peaceful, civilian Russian-speaking city, 70 or 90 kilometers from the fighters' side. Before that, our military forces had located an enemy drone there, apparently recording information about what was going on in the civilian peaceful city of Kramatorsk. Terrorists and militants fired on residential neighborhoods, and this moment is a very disturbing moment of information about numbers among the civilian population of the victims and victims. Unfortunately, seven people have died among the civilian population today, more than 20 are seriously injured, 9 are in critical condition, 4 are children. In terms of military casualties, four military personnel died for the moment and there were many wounded, as well. The president of Ukraine commissioned the management of the ATO and the government to send all forces to help the civilian population now, to provide first aid, so that the hospital, which is essentially becoming a hospital, would receive the necessary medicine. And to that end, we will appeal to the Health Ministry of profile to ensure that this is done immediately. Dear colleagues, I understand that there are a lot of questions in everyone's life, but it's now the Kramatorsky Peace Revenge, which has just been shot by fighters. And I would like us to respect what's happening in eastern Ukraine and to give you a joint assessment because, and why, today. It's quite obvious that terrorists are trying to break down the Minsk negotiations that are scheduled and are due to take place on Wednesday. It is clear that terrorists want to intimidate the peaceful cities of Ukraine, the civilian population, our military, the state of Ukraine and the whole world into blackmailing Russian weapons. I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not only to condemn today this animal, in general, has committed terrorism and war against the civilian population of Ukraine. But in the same way, we have to turn to our diplomatic authorities today to report full information about the Kramatorska shooting, which is in the deep rear, where civilians were killed, where they flew from the fighters' side, after another Russian rubber shell of Russian manufacturing. And so that, in no way, our unity with you and our common opposition to this war in this room may not be destroyed. I thank you for your information. As far as I can tell. And I'd like to support, stand up together, and applaud the Kramatorsky people that we're with, and we'll help them. We'll support them!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Also for information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u200	Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the following issues of the order of the day. Registration number 1423. Draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (for victims of protests). Second reading, fellow believers. Head of the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons, Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u201	Please turn on Mr. Trelyakov’s microphone for the presentation and report on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Your second reading is requested by the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 7 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing their Social Protection, the Act on Victims of Protest. Law number 1423. It is the granting of the status of persons with disabilities of war to activists who have been disabled as a result of participating in the Dignity Revolution in the Dignity Revolution. The bill was adopted on first reading on January 13 there were some over 300 votes. The second reading received four amendments from four people's deputies, two taken into account, one in part. The Profile Committee, at its meeting on 4 February, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a second-reading bill and generally as a law. Taking into account the comments of the General Legal Office and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I request the adoption of this bill with the following rights, I speak for the transcript. Paragraph one, paragraph two, paragraph 1 of the bill should be amended as follows: "The person who became disabled as a result of injuries, disabilities, injuries or other health injuries sustained during the mass protests in Ukraine from 21 November 2013 to 21 November 2014 for Euro-integration and against the Janukovich regime" followed by the text "The Revolution of Dignity" and sought medical assistance from 21 November 2013 to 30 April 2014. Thus, we have partly taken into account the amendment of the Lensky People's Deputy. Second line. By voting, paragraph 2.3 of the bill should be put in such a final position. This law takes effect from the day following its publication and is in effect 10 days after its publication. And the second amendment. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure that regulations are put into effect, acts aimed at the implementation of this law from the day it enters into force. I ask the People's Deputies to vote on second reading and in general to vote on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u203	Thank you. I want to ask the MPs, the first amendment is counted, the second is rejected. Do the authors of the amendment, Lensky, insist on voting? Is it insisting? He doesn't insist. The third amendment was rejected by the committee. Are the authors insisting on the amendment of Gordjeev, the newspaper in the vote? They don't insist. Fourth amendment counted. Ladies and gentlemen, can we vote on the bill as a whole? We can. Then I put to the vote a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, bill number (1423). Members, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Let's vote and then you come along, Mr. Sergei. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill, please decide by vote, please vote. [[16:27:31]] For 235 Thank you for your support. This is an important bill, so the bill (1423) on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, was adopted. We're going to go over the bill before we re-examine it. Draft law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other Ukrainian legislative acts, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Bill (0963), a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, is invited to the report. Please turn on the microphone for the report on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! We don't need a reduced procedure here, because this is a re-examination of the bill that was passed. On September 2, last year, the Law on Changes to Ukraine’s Budget Code was passed. The president of Ukraine vetoed this law. Two remarks were by the President, who the Committee on Budget Affairs had considered and suggested that they should be included in the final version of the law. We'd have put a dot with this law a long time ago if it wasn't for one but. On December 28, last year, another Act on Changes to the Budget Code was passed, i.e. two laws had the same subject matter of regulation. And due to the adoption of this law in December 2014, there was a conflict of legal norms, some of which were imposed. In this regard, the Committee on Budget Affairs proposed rules that had already been regulated by the law that had been adopted later, to be removed from the law that was passed on September 2. And the friction of the moment, because the night vote in December contained a lot of technical problems, this law, which we worked on, is suggested that technical issues be addressed by reference to that norm, legal clarifications and so on. So we're now being asked to adopt a refined version of the law, taking into account three points. First, this version of the law takes into account the President's proposal. Second, this version of the law removes those rules that have already been approved by law, which were later approved. And thirdly, this law regulates those coalitions that arose during the night vote. Please accept this law in such an editorial manner. This decision is supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, and this proposal is agreed with the government. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u205	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the table is given. As amended, are all the amendments taken into account? [[B in m in s a l in]] All corrections have been counted. We can vote. No objection, dear colleagues? Is there no objection? Puts to the vote, Your Honor, I ask you to prepare for the vote, (registration number 0963) Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code and some other Ukrainian legislative acts with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik reported. And there's the Committee's conclusion on adoption as a whole and all the adjustments that have been taken into account. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please vote 0963 in general. All changes, all changes taken into account. In general. Please vote. In general. [[16:32:00]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, 10 national deputies have come forward. Accordingly, since this has taken place, this statement, after the vote has been announced and after the vote, actually at the evening session, I have sent this application to the regulatory committee to make proposals for consideration of this application. Once it's back. As soon as this comes back from the regulatory committee, we will determine how to proceed further, in accordance with the legislation and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us now consider the following issues of the order of the day. Bill number 09 is being announced for your consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] 0961. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House on the Prevention of Violations of Rights of Owners of Apartments and Non-residential Facilities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine. There's a deputy minister present. Please report from the scene. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u207	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Supreme Council's adoption on 2 September 2014 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Housing House (to prevent violations of the rights of owners of apartments and non-residential premises). In line with the President’s proposals, part of this law does not comply with articles 12, 22 and 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the State guarantees the protection and equality of the rights of all subjects of ownership and management. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the current edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House stipulates that membership in a merger begins on the basis of a written application by the owner and by the consent of the union. The way in which a union is accepted is determined by the statute. In turn, the proposed changes are intended to grant admission to the members of the merger to the executive body of the OSBB. The executive body shall be given the right to refuse admission to the EMSB, but the reasons for this shall not be determined by law. Under such circumstances, there is a situation in which members of the OSB, who are part of the executive body of unification, will have greater opportunities compared to other members of the union. The granting of such advantages is contrary to articles 358, 369 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, under which the right to share partial property is exercised by their coowners according to their consent; article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on OSB as part of the limitation on the right of joint owners of a multi - apartment building to make decisions. Contrary to article 22 of the Constitution, the principle of equality before the law of the members of the union as joint owners of the apartment building and their rights are narrowed down. In view of the foregoing, it is suggested that the law be rejected. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! The spokesman is the first deputy chairman of the Committee, Dmitri Andryewski. Out of the way, please. Dmitri Andryewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u209	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the President's proposals to the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. The committee was in favour of supporting the President's proposals to reject the proposed bill as one that does not solve the problem and contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, since it gives the FSB government the right to decide whether or not to give membership to FSB. I would also like to point out that on January 13, 2015, in the first reading of the Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House, which actually settled these issues. The committee therefore proposes to the Supreme Council to support the President's proposal to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u210	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a committee proposal. Please, Dmitri Josephovich, once again, offer the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to the Supreme Council to support the President's proposals to reject this bill. So put it to a vote and support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare. I'll bet you a vote. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of Multi-Apartment Houses on the Prevention of Violations of Rights of Owners of Apartments and Inhabitant Facilities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 29.09.2014, registration number 0961. There's a proposal for deviation. If it is not even voted out, then it will be rejected, this bill. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] About the rejection of the bill. [[16:37:59]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The bill is considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, since you and I have decided to work until the daytime order is exhausted, we have a proposal for Law 1610, for its transposition, for its work. So I'm using my rights, and I don't even need to take a break here, advertise, advertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u213	Let's do this if you're going to take your seats now and, You're about to have a break. If you don’t need a break, listen to me very carefully. Please take your seats in the Hall, distinguished national deputies. I'll give the floor to the representative you've identified. Three minutes, no questions asked. No, no, one and a half is impossible, three minutes. Please identify the speaker and I will allow you to speak. Colleagues! Look, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u214	You're right. I'll give you a break if you want. Or, in general, we're going to conclude the sitting now, in general, and you're going to have to choose. Friends, choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the conference room. At the request of two factions to announce the break, I will now be able to speak. Who will act? Please take your seats. Deputies! Take your seats, please. Oleg Valeriyovich. Deputies! People's deputies! As soon as you're in position, the microphone will be turned on. Please. Please. Please. What's the problem? But I have asked you, honourable members of the people, to take your seats. Take your seats. Sit down, please. We will act only within the framework of current legislation. Please take your seat. Please, colleagues, take your seats. And let the colleague speak from the rostrum of Parliament. Andrew Teteruk, please, People's Front. We're out of order. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u216	Honorable deputies who occupy a seat at the rostrum! Honorable deputies, national deputies who block the rostrum. I'm asking you to sit down and understand that your blocking doesn't lead to any positive action. There are problems with what someone is going to knock, write a statement, and we're going to vote. Don't block the podium! [[B in m in s a l in]] I say don't block, let's work! We need to work, not to do what you do. Be smarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-10-m0.u217	Okay. Dear colleagues, I see we're doing fine, but there's no understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare our meeting closed. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
