ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Excuse me, good afternoon! It's like no one's broken up. Hello! Good morning, fellow countrymen! It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to welcome everyone with the extremely responsible decisions that Parliament has adopted today. I understand that we have disappointed all those who wanted, perhaps some negative and destabilizing plan for Ukraine, but I think we have taken a completely responsible step towards the country in terms of adopting the necessary decisions, including the budget. I think everyone will agree that the job is not finished, it needs to be continued. And I think that together with the government, we're going to set up a joint working group that will allow us to form proposals to improve our budget in 2016. I think everyone in this is the only one. I was talking about this being a tactical budget, not a strategic budget. So we're going to have to work on this a lot more. But at the same time, I think we've stabilized the situation. We have maintained full decentralization with you, and we will be financially. And we're going to see how that's going to be positive. Actually from the base level, he sat down. And that's a revolutionary step. You and I have stood by a simplified tax system for small and medium-sized businesses. You and I have saved what we have saved for the peasants, including our only social contribution. There's a number of positive things that we've been able to figure out. We continue to work, dear fellows. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we have approved with you today, we are starting our work with questions. But before that, I'm asking you to include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. [[12:04:55]] Registered -179 [[B in m in s a l in]] Members of the Opposition Block are asking to re-register? Why would you do that? 179 national deputies are registered in the hall. To the well - known fellow MPs: The Constitution and the Rules do not oblige us to have most of the composition. We can start our work. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before that, I would like to welcome our colleague, Alexander Granowski, to our good tradition. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Good and healthy. And also, my fellow Members, I would like to read out an announcement that, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Petsyovka Vasil Vasilovic as part of the "Will of the People" MP group. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questioning. I'm handing over the right to take over the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksani Ivanovni Siroid. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of all factions to the fact that there are now 10 requests to the President of Ukraine on this list. Unfortunately, as you know, they cannot be addressed to the President in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution without the vote of the Supreme Council. Over the course of the year, we cannot have enough votes on Friday to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Enquiries are one of the control functions of Parliament. Therefore, Friday’s failure to sit in the session room and vote in favour of sending requests to the President of Ukraine is unfortunately a failure to perform the supervisory function of the Supreme Council. Just so you know. So let's keep asking other authorities. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Provincial District Administration on the allocation of funds to the Amazing Public Union of ATO members and volunteers for the purchase of motor vehicles for the transport of volunteer aid to the ATO area. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for funding from the budget costs of the construction of the pipeline to the village of Velika Kozar Romanovski district, Žitomir district. Andrija Pomazanova to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the need to take measures to stop the broadcast of the pro-Russian radio stations in an area controlled by Ukraine. Jurya Babia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget for 2016 for the construction of the medical corps of the State Institute of Prikarpathian Centre for Human Reproductive Life. Victor Ostapchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the inclusion of the city of Izum and the Izum district of Kharkiv region in the State programme for the restoration of Donbas and other issues of the restoration of Donbas. Vladimir Litvin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the Prevention of Activities and Offences concerning the Farming of Agritta in the village of Strybyz of the Red Army Region of the Žitomir Region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on tariffs for municipal services for the housing of family-type children's homes relating to the status of employees. Alexander Marchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the lifting of the ban on the installation of cabins in buildings and public buildings. Alexia Hončarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the immediate suspension of the restructuring of the Ukrainian State Institute of Science and Research Institute of the name of Mečnikov Ministry of Health of Ukraine in the alternative proposed by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and on the need for a comprehensive discussion by professionally qualified professionals of the new national system of epidemiological surveillance and response to emergency situations, including bioterrorist events and the use against Ukraine of various types of biological weapons. Eugene Balitsky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inaction of officials of the Borodian District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Eugene Balitsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine and the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region. Sergey Eutuska to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the Sarna Police Department to the robbery of a jewelry store on December 4, 2015 in the city of Sarna Rivena. Mikoli Skorka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the prevention and cessation of unlawful actions by unknown persons in balaclav and camouflage in the case before the Malinov District Court of Odessa on the change of precautionary action in the Odessa City case on 2 May 2014. Irina Frez to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for payment of cash compensation for the raising of housing for the military forces of the State. Alexander Kodola to the head of the government of the public shareholder society of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the shares branches of the Stock Exchange in the Ichnian and Koropian regions of the Chernig region. Michael Bondar to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the issue of the construction of the 48th apartment building on the street of Grigoria Crapaja, located in Lviv district, the city of Broda, to provide housing for those who need to improve housing conditions in the military area of Pp B3765. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the relocation of the central offices of the financial and financial institutions ( The State Tax Inspectorate, the State Audit Service, the Pension Fund, the Prosecutor’s Office, and other institutions) from the administrative center of Zoločów Lviv district to other district centers. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-facilative dismantling of missile launcher mines, which is a threat to mass poisoning by super-toxic components of rocket fuel and the contamination of the territory of the Lugina region of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exemption from the administrative assembly and the payment for the granting of an extract from the State Register for the renaming of objects whose names contain the symbolism of the communist totalitarian regime. Ostapa One to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and Food of Ukraine for the provision of documents for consultation. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, State Road Agency of Ukraine, State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Kiev City Administration, Mikolai City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' requests for adequate housing and utility services in various regions of Ukraine. Jacob Besbach to the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need to uphold the principle of legality in criminal conduct. Sergia Labazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for Restoration in 2016 of State Housing Programmes for Young People. Sergia Labazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on assistance in obtaining a multi-child family of ATO participants. Maxima Polakova and Hennady Bobov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the legality of construction within the first sanitary and protective zone of the East District resort, Lviv region. Group of People’s Deputies (Ionova, Lucenko, and others). A total of 6 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the criminal case of kidnapping, torture, unlawful detention for three months by the fighters of the Donbas battalion of Aleksandra Vasilovic, a citizen of Kalashnik. Vladimir Ariev to the Kiev City Head on the use of measures to eliminate unauthorized stops of road transport vehicles and to stop systematic violations by drivers of stopping and parking at the intersection of the Avenue of Academic Palladin and Uborovic Street near the train station of the Academic City and other places of chaotic stopping of the road vehicles. Vasil Janicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to information about the destruction of large areas of the forest and possible mass weapons with forests in the northern districts of the Žitomir region. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures, personal control of the return to the community of areas of the forest park area, violation of the conduct of harassment of officials and persons who have caused irreparable damage to the environment through illegal logging and illegal construction. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at establishing sufficient funds for 2016 for the State budget of Ukraine for the normal functioning of St. Anna's maternity house No.2 (city of Kirovograd) and for the implementation of constitutional rights and social guarantees for residents of the entire region of Kirovograd, as well as for the policy of combating the demographic crisis and improving the quality of medical care. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation in the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Security of Ukraine. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the use of drinking water measures in the village of Šolochowa Nikopolskie district of Dnipropetrovsk. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the answer to the questions raised in the October 9, 2015, issue No11/10-206. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of motor vehicles. Vasil Pétovka to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Zacarpathian Regional Public Administration, head of the Zacarpathian District Council on the allocation of funds to the Blackachian Rural Council of the Rakhiv district of Zakarpat district for the construction of the DNZ. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of investors of the First Credit Society, on the illegal seizure of their funds of over 10 million dollars, on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Poltava area on the detection of fraudulent acts, on the establishment of guilty persons and on the compensation of their damages. Alexander Chernenka, acting as Director-General of the State Enterprise National Information Systems for unauthorized interference in the work of the State Register of Things. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent search for ways and implementation of effective measures to restore the population of the Kirovograd region with short-lived gas for domestic needs. Groups of National Deputies (Nemirowski, Moscalenka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the corruption of the judges of Zivoplova, Novikov, who have signs of criminal crime, as well as the inaction of the Dnipropetrovsky District Prosecutor's Office. Vladislav Buharev to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine regarding the inadequate provision of television and radio broadcasting of Ukrainian state programmes in the territory of the Grand Duchy and other border areas of the Suma region. Hennady Krivoshei to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, David Sacrarelidze, on the use of measures to respond to violations of anti-corruption legislation by officials of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Hersonian Region, UMC of Ukraine in the Hersonian region and to bring the guilty persons to justice. Irina Sisoyenko, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the provision of information on the integration of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 into health and medical development programmes. Groups of people’s deputies (Romanov, Sporish and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Predictment, at the expense of the Ministry of Defence, in 2016, funds for the treatment of ATO participants infected with hepatitis C during operational interventions. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the provision of funding for the provision of a crossing point across the state border of Ukraine "Russia-Ulma" in the Chernivecki region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need for extra-commissioned housing for the disabled and army group. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption by the head of the National Financial Inspectorate in Dnipropetrovsk. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the involvement of Minister of Health of Ukraine Alexander Kwiatashvili and former Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine Eugene Moroz in corruption and official falsification in the interests of officials of the National Medical University of the name of the Mansion. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Parasuce and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the exceedance of the powers of the judge of the Winnick Administrative Court of Appeal by Kuzmish and its involvement in the disciplinary responsibility provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev, Shevchenkow District Department of the National Police Department of Kiev, the Prosecutor's Office of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev for the mass poisoning of dogs in the territory of Kiev. Victor Krivenk to the Office of State Executive Services of the Obolon District Department of Justice, Administration of the State Executive Service of the General Department of Justice in Kiev for the Recruitment of the Executive Congregation. Irina Ephraim to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine in Exceptional Situations, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on possible administrative and criminal offences by persons represented by TC leaders "Barabashovo". Irina Efraemova to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the failure to execute court decisions by officials of the DPA in the Kyiv district of Odessa, Ukraine’s Central Administration of the State Fiscal Service in the Odessa region. Maxima Polakova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the abuse of the service position of employees of the High Town District Administration of the DAI, the Department of Investigation of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, the Department of Investigations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv district of the Chief Doctor of the High Town Central District Hospital and the involvement of the guilty citizen of Rossosanski in criminal responsibility. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of war veterans and participants in an anti-terrorist operation, the Kostopilian City Head, the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the provision of housing for a wartime participant. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the Head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation, the Mikolai people's head, the head of the Mikolai District State Administration for the housing of the invalid war and the group. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-change of the applicable standards of expenditure from the State budget for the preparation of labour personnel in professional and technical institutions of state ownership and for the non-transfer of vocational and technical institutions for funding from state to local budgets in the Ukrainian National Budget for 2016 project. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the strengthening of state control in the area of the prescription leave of combined drugs contained in her codeine composition. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the permanent functioning of the Kharkiv educational complex "Sokolatka", located at the holding of the DK "Ukroborinprom". Andrija Illenka to the head of the National Judicial Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, First Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev for Information and Action in connection with the illegal construction of residential buildings near the Voskresenska Street Park, 2nd in the Dniprov region of the capital. Andrija Illenka, head of Kyiv City State Administration, Director of the Communiqué Company, Managing Company for the Housing Fund of the Right-wing District of Kiev, temporarily acting as Head of the Right-wing District in Kiev State Administration, Head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development for the inclusion in the Programme for the Social and Economic Development of the City of Kiev for 2016 of the capital repair of the asphalt coating on the prospectus of Lisové, 17 in the right-wing district of the capital. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the payment of compensation for the cost of travel of disabled persons to and from the sanatorium. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for free provision by 8th grade textbooks in the 2016 State Budget. Mikoli Tomenka to the Kyiv city head on the organization and legal arrangements for the elections to the district councils in Kiev on 27 March 2016. Igor Vasyunika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the development and approval of the State's target programme to support participants in hostilities and their families. Igor Vasjunika to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the creation of the Scientific Research Institute. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the actions of the public authorities in places. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer to the property of the territorial community of Slavuta public property objects. Romana Macoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of subsidy payments for 2014-2015 from the State budget of Ukraine to the local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the population risk that resides in the area of observation of the Hmelnické AES. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of October 1, 2015 No 758 with the aim of raising the social standard of gas consumption. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the organization of verification of violations of State building and conservation standards during the planned construction of the "Complex on Municipal Waste Management in Lubotin, Kharkiv Region. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of full, objective and comprehensive criminal investigation into the counterfeiting of the garage cooperative Autolover-104. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, for the transfer of the Ternopilian Educational and Training Union to the municipal property of the city of Kremenec of Ternopil. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the payment of salary indexes to medical personnel in the region of Lanewets. Alexander Marchenka to the minister of health regarding the provision of vaccines to the population Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration, for the provision of medical care to residents of the city of Fastov, Kyiv district, who suffer from cataracts. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the publication of data on the values of certain economic standards of the banks of Ukraine. Hennady Chekita to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the prevention of corruption in enterprises, institutions and organizations that are part of the administration of Ukraine's monetary policy. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the purchase of car cranes by the Ministry of Defence of the Society with limited responsibility for "Contemporary Trucks". Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the liquidation of the state-run facility "Leanian Hospital of Romadan STGO South Railway". People’s Deputies — Hirschfeld, Billowola, and others A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing of water exchange measures in the Krasnovlovska Voivodship of the Kharkiv Region. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for providing information on a promising gasification plan for part of the villages of the Glubeck region of the Cherniewice region. Gregory Timesa, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the organization of a check of the legality of giving a positive conclusion to the environmental inspection of the project by the Land Administration for Land Disposal in the Land of Water Foundation in the territory of the Council of Malta in the region of Cherniwetsk. Groups of National Deputies (Dove, Barwinenka, and others) A total of 16 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of any discrimination in the field of higher education. Groups of National Deputies (Doubova, Polyakova and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office on the need to supervise the investigation of the commission of a corruption offence by the Head of the National Police Department in the Odessa region of Giorgi Lortkipanidze. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the Wynnick District State Administration for violating the terms of the passenger transport competition. Ruslana Demczak to Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Vitalia Kaska for the illegal use of the land of TOV "Corbishtenské". Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the examination of the accounts of government officials in the Russian socrates of "The One Class" and "Vkontakte" for anti-Ukrainian activities. Groups of National Deputies (Kulka, Zalszczek and others) A total of 14 deputies) to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the violation of constitutional conduct in the case of constitutional submission by 57 people's deputies on the recognition of the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum as unconstitutional. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Health for the mandatory inclusion of funds from the State Budget for the functioning and maintenance of the hemodialysis unit. Eugene Dejaja to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to violations of anti-corruption legislation. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of natural gas consumers who use gas for household purposes. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of improper protection of the rights and legitimate interests of subjects by the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine. Igora Artushenko to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the investigation of corruption schemes reported by Michael Saakashvili. Vadim Krivenk to the Head of State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre regarding the improper performance of duties by the head of the Department of State in the Corstos region and other matters. Vadim Krivenk to the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine for the testimony of force majeure. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of pension insurance in 2016. Vasil Janicki to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the solution of the issue of security for the Dubrovnik Central District Sanitary Transport. Jaroslava Markevich to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Odessa, for the purpose of halting the illegal construction of the Odessa Park Area. Andrija Shinkovič to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Hmelnick district government, the head of the Hmelnick district council on the moratorium on the closure of schools in rural areas of the Hmelnick district. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of the Hmelnick district council for the increase in the rent and social benefits to the communities of the villages of Hmelnitsk Region. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for violation by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the temperature regime for the storage of polio vaccine. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the proper investigation of criminal conduct No.12014100100005849 with regard to the Director General of Radio, Radio and Television, Vladimir Ishtuk. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the pension provision of certain categories of pensioners. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the answer to the question: How to survive on a minimum wage? Alexander Dombrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Chief of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Viennec Region, the Head of the Provincial District Administration, the temporarily acting Head of the Chief of the National Police in the Vinnitsky Region, the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsky Region, the Head of the Strižavska Rural Council of the Vinnitice Region, the Head of the Master Court of the Vinnitice Region, the Chief of the Vinni District Council for the improper performance of the sub-contracting of the PP “Valerio Monti” in the construction of the “Profelicative and Healthy Office of the Vinnitice District of the Vincice District of Vincice. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Head of the General Administration of the State Department of the Province of Vinnitsk, the acting head of the Chief of the National Police in the Vinnitsky region, the Chief of the Security Service of Ukraine in the Vinnitsky region, the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsky district, the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsky region for the illegal removal of the land of the recreational assignment in the OSBB "Mikolayivska-8", the OSBB "Mikolayivska-12", the OSB "Mikolayivska-16" in the town of Winnice. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for active financing in 2016 for the construction and capital repair of roads of municipal property and social areas in the fields of education, health, culture and sports in Biloczerkovsky, Voddarski, Skurirsk, Stavishtenski, Tarostian and Tetijev regions of the Kyiv region. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine for the Disruptment of the Illicit Agreement on the Joint Activities of the Scientific Research Enterprise "Agronomic" of the Winnicky NAU with private subject of PAT "Dashkovci". Vladimir Parasuka to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the illegal enrichment of Lviv Opera Director Thaddey Eder at the expense of hiding overseas gastronomic trips. Irina Suslowy to the prosecutor of the Lviv district, temporarily acting as head of the National Police Department in the Lviv region to investigate the fact that the budget was being spent in the execution of the work related to the liquidation of the impact of the disaster, which took place from 23 to 27 July 2008 in the Lviv region. Jury Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for a forecast in Ukraine’s 2016 State Budget for State Support for United Territorial Communities, ensuring that the budgets of the unified territorial communities are made available to individuals’ income taxes, and providing information on the scope of international technical and financial assistance. Jury Devyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of implementation of the Concept for the Reform of Local Self-Government and the Territorial Organization of Government in Ukraine and on the need to prepare draft laws, regulations and official clarifications necessary for the normal functioning of the unified territorial communities. Andrija Gordjeyeva to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to investigate the possible corruption by officials of the state authorities and the individual national deputies of Ukraine VII, a call that has seriously damaged the interests of the foreign legal person, Sofforest LTD. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by the head of the Education Department of the Brodwig Reich administration in the Lviv region in the appointment of school principals. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of the laws during the conduct of the pretrial investigation. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of State Service of Ukraine for war veterans and participants in an anti-terrorist operation to take urgent action in the operation of the Single Register of Counter-terrorists. Oxana Sold to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the Cessation of Taxpayers’ Rights. Stepan Kubeva to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the rehabilitation of the injured members of the Dignity Revolution. Stepan Kubeva to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine to provide information on the results of the diagnosis of the 20 largest banks in Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of the organisation of the release of orphans and children deprived of parental care, through the line of delimitation to the territory under the control of the authorities of the State of Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Odessa District State Administration on the need to address the need to provide housing for a children’s house of the family type, Rudych, in the city of Ilchivsk. Irina Gerashchenko and Maria Ionova are headed by the government, Kyiv City State Administration, regarding the situation of the renaming of John Lepse’s boulevard in Thessalom district of Kiev. Mustafa-Massi Najima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the confirmation or violation of agreements with Igor Kolomojski and Hennady God-loving. Sergija Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible involvement of the Ukrainian national deputy Mikoli Martinenka in Austrian firms that have caused significant damage to Ukraine's public budget. Sergey Lechchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on response measures to alleged violations by PAT officials of the "Desparation of Ukraine" in the transfer of $40 million in the interests of National Deputy Igor Kotwitski. Gennady Chekita to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Odessa District for the verification of corruption and the prosecution of those responsible. Sergey Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the possible corruption of senior investigators in the particularly important cases of the second investigative department of the Special Investigations Department of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, O. Protas, from the questionable (including a violation of the terms) of the removal from the search of the ex-repute of the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Portov. Eduard Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to provide comprehensive assistance to the internally displaced person Greenishak Lydia Josephovni, who temporarily resides in the Kyiv district of Odessa. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need to provide medical care in order to provide adequate, comprehensive treatment for cancer patients in the Kyiv district of Odessa Natalia Petrovna Oksanenko and to provide social assistance to her family, who have a second - group son disability. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of funds to Ukraine’s State Budget for 2016 for the financing of the State Programme “Available Housing 30/70”. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for the benefits and subsidies to residents of OSB's houses. Tetjana Donz to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the government budget's income from dividend tax. Alexia Rybkin to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the clarification of specific issues relating to the collection and payment of a single contribution to the general public social insurance of persons mentioned in the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation. Jury Lewchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation by law enforcement officials in the Zaporozhye and Cherka oblasts. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the verification of smuggling and illegal activities of importing companies at the Odessa Customs of the DFS. Jury Bublika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service for banning the entry into Ukraine of foreign artist Alessandro Safina. Alexander Guerrega's duty as Head of the State Area and Sectoral Union of the South West Railway to shorten the ticket cassiers at the Danube Railway Station of the Hmelni district. Borislava Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of criminal conduct No.1/2015100010010522, of the Vossiya District Office of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev, on the basis of the crime envisaged in section 1 of article 160 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the bribery of voters. Alexander Gerega to the head of the State Service of Ukraine for geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the allocation of land to ATO soldiers and residents of the territorial community. Robert Gorvato to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the detection and opposition of criminal offences on the ground of racial, national, or religious enmity or strife. Anton Herashchenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the illegal refusal of officials of Minenergo Ukraine to provide information at the legitimate request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Anton Heraszczenko to the Public Stock Exchange Society of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine on the illegal refusal of officials from the Reserve to provide information at the legitimate request of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Maxime Chicken to Finance Minister of Ukraine for an additional donation to District No.25 in 2015. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the quality and conformity of the defence of bronzechists who are being purchased and already purchased for public funds and are being supplied or already on the provision of military personnel. Igora Lucenka to the Kiev City Head on the verification of the illegal eviction of internally displaced persons from KP Kyivpastrs. Irina Frez to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the establishment of the reasons for the 50th separate training team in 2012 and the restoration of its work. Oleg Musia to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the enforcement of legality in the restructuring of Postal Liaison Center No. 7. Alexander Gorbunov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of gas to the population of the Kyrovograd region for household needs in full. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the application of measures to extend the terms of the international search for the so-called Zaporezki criminal "watching" "Anisima" (Anisimova J.O.) and the beginning of the procedure for judgment against him. Sergio Laryna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the appeal of the Kirovograd Air Traffic Service. Andrija Vadaturski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the seaports of Mikolayev and Herson. Groups of National Deputies (Dunyeva, Novinsky and others) A total of 11 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the examination of the facts that are evidence of falsification during the election of the Mikolai City Head because of the illegal interference in the work of the State voter register, which led to an archaeological increase in the number of voters included in the election lists during the period between the October 25th vote and the re-voting vote of 15 November 2015. Vasil Gulyav to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying condition and lack of funding for the local importance of Saurán - Kamyane - border of the Kirovograd - Zavalj district of Odessa. Peter Vanat to the finance minister of Ukraine about violations of the legal rights and interests of the public shareholders association Ukrainian graffiti and a number of other large industrial enterprises in the Zaporozhye region by fiscal officials. Vitalia Stasuka and Elena Boyko to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration to facilitate the organization of a public passenger bus route. Vladimir Husak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the settlement of the existing and the non-admission of new debt on the wages of coal miners of state mines. Vladimir Ariev to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the release from office of the procurator of Kotovo district of the Odessa region of Alexia Galaccionova. Groups of National Deputies (Takkauk, Suslovy, Lubinz) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the intensification of investigations into public shareholders of the Plogov Oil Extraction Plant, which resulted in a failure to pay about 5.5 million dollars in taxes to Ukraine's State budget. Sergey Visockov to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the need to allocate the land of Durduk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Andrija Biletsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the equalization of payments of one-time cash assistance in the event of death, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing the disability of militia personnel who have died, have been disabled or have lost their jobs as a result of direct participation in the Anti-Terrorism operation. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the groundless criminal prosecution by law enforcement officials of the Montenegrin Regional Office of the State Specialised Financial Institution of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing and the non-application by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of measures to protect the constitutional rights of citizens for the fourth time. Jurija-Bogdan Shuhevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of the injustice in the retirement of current Ukrainian supporters of fighting activities denied in the appointment of a term pension, compared with other categories of participants in fighting activities granted this status during periods of hostilities in other states (Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo, etc.) and during periods of fighting in Ukraine in 1944-1951 (the liquidation of so-called diversionist groups, banditism), which in fact was the destruction of the national liberation movement in Ukraine. Alons Schkrum to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the situation in the airline market in Ukraine Alons Schrum to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the issue of providing schoolchildren with textbooks on the economy of funds to pay for the work of Ukrainian National Deputies. Mr. Mikoli Veličkovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for conducting a verification of the fact that the smuggling of companies by importers through the Odessa Customs of the State Fiscal Service was carried out. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the provision of immediate medical care (medical treatment) Gavrilovich Tetjani Mikolayevni, mother of a multi-child, low-income family living in the village of Svarysevice in the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Oleg Musia to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the introduction of information into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the Island Head of the Sokal district of Lviv. Natalia Katser-Buchkowski to the head of the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Ternopil region for the confirmation of the employment internship and the assignment of a pension to the citizens of Olga Jurinz. Taras Batenka and Oleg Musia to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Lviv District State Administration to prevent the closure of the 24-hour pharmacy, located in the Mikolaiiv Municipal Central District Hospital, providing low-security treatments for the population, veterans, disabled people, and most of the people in the city of Mikoljeva, Lviv district with the most essential drugs at the premium price. Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for the post of Head of the Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Poltava region. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of discriminatory criteria for the involvement of audit firms in the audit of economic operators. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of higher education institutions in 2016. John Krulk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the ratification by Ukraine of the European Convention on the Encouragement of Inter-border Long-Term Volunteer Service for Young People. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment to Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets on the experiment in Odessa, Volinska, Lviv and Chernivsky areas on the financial security of reconstruction, on the current repair of road routes of general use of state importance. Anton Kisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of railway connections in Berezine (Ukraine) - Basarabiaska (Moldova). Vasila Pětovka to the director of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education on the delivery of results by region of the country. Sergija Dunaev to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the inclusion in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 of expenditure on coal industry. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the change in the order in which pensions are recalculated by the age of persons to whom they were counted by 2008. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the urgent development of the mechanism for determining the ecological value of the water object for the implementation of the standard monetary valuation of the land of the non-agricultural destination of the water fund. Dmitry Lubinz to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine in the conduct of a pretrial investigation into offences that contain signs of crimes provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine by officials of the ATO military prosecutor, the military prosecutor of the Kharkiv garrison and the coworkers of the United Headquarters of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, according to Andrija Yangolenko. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the constitutional right to education of Docenko Yulia Mikolayivna and for the responsibility of those responsible for impeding its implementation. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the amount of expenditure spent on the implementation of the European Val project (the Wall) and the results of its implementation. Jury Babia to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into the road accident that took place on the capital highway on December 20, 2015, 104 in Kiev, which resulted in the loss of the birthplace of Ivano-Frankivska. Groups of National Deputies (Brichenka, Polyakov and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of legislation in the organization of the activities of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Vladimir Parasuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the urgent settlement of the issue of the payment of debt for WP miners' salaries, "Stepova" and other Lviv-Ugil DP mines, as well as the inclusion of coal subsidies in Ukraine's State Budget for 2016. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the use in 2015 of a state - budget medical subsidy to local budgets. Groups of National Deputies (Novinsky, Balitsky). A total of 6 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the illegal seizure of Ukrainian Orthodox Church religious buildings and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. Igor Popov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the timely and impartial investigation of corruption in state enterprises. Vitalia Chapinoga to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, on a complex of issues related to the social protection of ATO fighters. Sergia Kiwalova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the application of measures to reduce public service tariffs and to provide economic justification for the formation of public services tariffs. Constantine Jarinic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the constitutional right of budget workers to pay, not less than the statutory right, including the conduct of indexation. Anton Yatzenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to combat illicit drug trafficking and to cover the sale of narcotic drugs in the city of Uman Cherkaske district by the head of the Ummanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region of Skolenko Vitali Anatoliyovich. Borislava Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation of criminal conduct No. 12015100030008505 of 22 July 2015. We finished reading the MP's questions. Let's move on to the Miscellaneous. People's deputies would like you to focus and prepare for the recording of the various performances. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies, I address all in the Hall! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recording of the various performances. Please sign up. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Alex Lensky, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. National MP Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u3	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, honourable chairman, distinguished people of Ukraine! Today we have a final meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament in 2015. 2015 was a very difficult year for both Parliament and the country. But we lived it. What do we have? Basically, there are no reforms in the state, no weaknesses in the executive branch of power, no usurpation of the presidential branch, no attempts to rehabilitate, if not the whole system, so are the ways in which it works. In a country of war, in a country if not disrupted, there is no economic growth. The government has been telling us for a year that he's trying to reform, that he wants to reform, that he's doing everything he can to improve the lives of the people. And maybe somewhere in the cabinets, there's a list of that people, and it's clearly defined, but it's not 45 million people in Ukraine, it's supposed to be that way. Oleg Láška’s radical party fought for a year to accomplish everything we went to the polls. And a lot of it, we did a lot of it. If you look at the year's summary, look at how our faction worked, yes, the distinguished people of Ukraine, let me tell you, we were the most effective faction in the Supreme Council. And I assure you, I give you my word from this high rostrum: we will remain that way. We're going to defend and defend the interests of the common people, we're going to defend and defend the interests of Ukraine, we're going to write and adopt laws for the development of Ukraine, for the purpose of developing our own business, for the business of Ukraine, and not to walk with an outstretched hand abroad and ask for loans to survive somehow. And we have to have dignity, we have to have our own economy, we have to create our own jobs and make money, we have to make money for the country, we have to pay wages, and we have to pay honest taxes, and we have to pay them again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u4	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u5	to carry out social obligations and social programs. This morning we voted in favour of that shameful budget that the Cabinet of Ministers gave us. Why did this happen? But because Parliament, Parliament's leadership had been in breach of legislation for a year, had violated the Supreme Council's Rules, the laws had been adopted with infringements of procedures, and the clearest example was that we all knew that by April 1, the Cabinet was due to submit macro indicators of the next budget, by September 15, to submit the draft budget to the session hall, we knew it, we knew it, we knew it, and the Cabinet of Ministers knew it was Parliament's leadership. What did they do to make it wrong? We all remember this year’s New Year’s Christmas tree, as we received the 2015 budget at night, and the situation again. What did we do to make it wrong? The Radical Party of Oleg Láška struggled with all possible and impossible means, and it came to the point that when a coalition legally existing and de facto non-existent on August 31st was voted in the Supreme Council Hall of Disgusting Amendments to the Constitution with the special status of Donbass in contravention of the will of the three factions of five, we left the coalition and it was our position that we would not support such things. Yesterday, today, more faithfully, we voted in favour of the budget that the Cabinet of Ministers gave us, in order for Ukraine to enter the new year with the budget, in order to pay salaries to the budgeters, in order to pay pensions, in order to keep medical institutions, schools, kindergartens. But I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance. We're not gonna take it easy on you. We're still working, we're finding all of your lasagna, where you're trying to steal national money. And there's not one dozen and not one dozen. As I finish my speech, I welcome all of us, the entire people of Ukraine, the whole country with the New Year coming. And don't let this New Year's monkey turn us all into political monkeys. We have to look around, draw conclusions, and not repeat mistakes. I assure you all: Oleg Láska’s radical party stood, stood, and stood on the watch for the interests of the people of Ukraine. Glory, Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u6	Thank you. I'd like to have a word with you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Gusak, political party of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u7	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! Yesterday, the Ukrainian Parliament approved the 2016 budget. And probably no better time for budget adoption than four o'clock in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Parliament should set an example for society of good and not of bad organization of work. Moreover, there are no excuses this time. And if the government has already pushed the budget forward and reconciled, it is not clear why the budget could not have been adopted on December 28 or 29 if the need to adopt the budget had already been so great before the New Year. I'm just wondering whose Maldives or mountain skis this time put the Ukrainian Parliament and the country in total ridicule. My colleagues have repeatedly shown why this budget is very inconvenient, does not suit the interests of the Ukrainian people, and why it could not be accepted. I'm not going to repeat myself, but I'd like to stop at a few points: on the changes that took place during the budget reconciliation and which show very well why individual MPs and individual MPs and groups have finally voted in favour of this inequitable budget. First. By 300 million or 50 percent of the expenditures on the Supreme Council have been increased, that is, we MPs have taken care of ourselves. Then the reduced social benefits from 3 to 1.4 wages are an income tax benefit. This led to an increase in the budget income needed to compensate, for example, for the refusal to increase the excise duty on tobacco. So tobacco exciseion remains the same as it was. And the only more or less positive news is that there was a single line in the budget of 500 million dollars in debt owed to coal miners of government mines. This will allow it to last for the first quarter of 2016, but, colleagues, the government does not have a comprehensive system view of the coal sector in Ukraine, so this is a problem. And, Your Honor, bright things don't happen at night. But with the new you 2016! And let's make it better than 2015!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u8	Thank you. People’s MP Rephat Chubarov gave the floor to the national deputy Hanni Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u9	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon! To sum up 2015, I would like to thank every member of Parliament, every Ukrainian who has waited patiently for the changes we have made this year. I don't want to talk about how everyone says, "Straight," "It's all gone," "It's gonna get worse." We want to enter 2016 with optimism. What did we do in 2015? As head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to thank every parliamentarian for the restoration of parliamentary diplomacy. The MFZ command game also ensured effective opposition to Russian aggression with Parliament. International sanctions against Russia have been continued, and we hope that they will be strengthened. Ukraine’s humanitarian, financial, and security assistance was provided by governments throughout the world. Ukraine has been elected a member of the UN Security Council, and we hope that, during 2016-2017, our diplomats (and yesterday, thanks to the efforts of parliamentarians, we have increased their budget for their effective activities), they will be in the UN Security Council in the coming years restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty through the establishment of peace at Donbassa and the return of Crimea. And so I would like to thank separately the people's deputies who here represent the interests of our citizens, who are in Crimea, the Crimean Tatar people, such as Rephat Chubarov, Mustafa Djemiliev, for their entire contribution to returning and striving for what Crimea will be Ukrainian. We also need to find justice through the MH 17 tribunal, to promote the protection of human rights and the world, particularly through the cessation of repression in the Crimea. If we look at what else we've achieved, it's to ensure transparency of power and property. Every citizen now has free access to real estate and land registers, and he can monitor the movement of budgetary funds. And yesterday, too, thanks to the colleagues of the Ministry of Economics, the National Deputy of Victoria the Birds, with those amendments to the Antimonopoly Committee, we provided electronic transparent purchases. And now, with the Transparency mechanism, everyone's gonna be tracking the budget. And this is our opportunity to report to society. The media will reveal the real owners, and the parties will report their finances to society. We also defrosted the construction of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. It was a difficult process, but we really hope that in 2016 Ukrainian children will finally get the first modern child hospital, and where our doctors will do transplants, bone marrow transplants from a non-family donor. And I also want to say that in this year's local elections, we helped the mayor of Deaf, Mayor of Mikolayev. And we need to continue to help us achieve decentralization so that the decentralization of power will contribute to the strong cities. We all want to thank, to wish for optimism, for vigorous optimism, for hope, for faith, for love, for mutual respect! Ukraine is insurmountable! As I always say, the Kiev Rousseau.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u10	Thank you. The deputy, the national deputy of Germany, handed the word to the national deputy Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u11	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council has its last meeting today, I want to turn from my colleagues to Ukraine’s citizens and welcome the coming Christmas of Christ and the New Year! May we show genuine love for the peaceful heavens above the head and the earth under our feet! 2015 is the same year as 2014 and, finally, 2016, these are the years of anticipation. But it is a wasteful year of the most rapid development of the health - care reform situation. Everyone expected the arrival of a new team to be able to finally make the decisions that Ukrainian society has been looking forward to for more than 20 years. Today, those who provide medical services, medical professionals, and those who receive them, want decisive changes. Unfortunately, too much regret, we can say that neither in 2014 nor in 2015, and in 2016 nothing will be done specifically in the health system. Why? In 2016, for the first time in many years, the government budget provides less money than last year, by two and a half billion. If you look at and analyze 2013 and 2014, where more money was allocated than this year, the figures that were recorded when the budget was adopted were always not equal to the actual amounts of money that were allocated for practical health care. It's always been less than 2-3 billion. In view of the fact that the sum of minus 2.5 has already been set today and not added by the end of the year, we are well aware that funding for health care will be reduced by 10 percent. I would like to remind you that the vast majority of drugs, medical supplies are purchased for currency. Since then, money has tripled. So let's see what happens in health care, whether the authorities are consciously going to destroy this health system, or whether the authorities are consciously going to stop treating people, or whether it's just unprofessionalism, which is incapable of resolving the situation. What is most surprising is that health - care reform can be carried out today. The Emergency Health Act allows for a radical change in the situation. We have a law, we have an ecosystem in place in Kharkivsk. No, partly in Dnipropetrovsk, Lvivsk, Lutsk. But unfortunately, nothing was done in the 14th year, nothing was done in the 15th year. Neither does the prosecutor’s office raise the question of why the Ministry of Health does nothing to enforce this law. Nothing will be done again in 2016. This means that we will continue to stagger. Under such circumstances, the minister of health needs to be released, not accepted for his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u12	Thank you. National Deputy Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u13	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. The honourable citizens of Ukraine and colleagues who are in the room today, unfortunately, in very small numbers, would like to address you and start with the certainty that yesterday's parliamentary process can be very much said. And the way the budget was taken: again at night, again in the potency mode, in the ultimatum mode, without all procedures and even some kind of visibility of compliance with the Rules. You can talk about the content of this document, namely that it is essentially a failure, because it reflects the situation of an economic catastrophe, which, unfortunately, is Ukraine, largely and primarily because of the non-professionalism and corruption of an active government. Similarly, we can talk about the fact that in this budget we have not seen any concrete plans for the exit from the economic catastrophe. We haven't seen what mechanisms the government plans to focus on, how it plans to get out of that huge drop in GDP that I'm now in our country. How he plans to provide at least a minimum standard of living for Ukrainian citizens who are now actually beggars. And we realize that there is nothing strange about it, because irresponsibleness, if not punished for it, will generate even more insolent irresponsibility. We remember a year ago when a budget was adopted, under what conditions. We were then told that this was an exceptional situation, so it would never happen again. The next time everything's going to be legal, it's going to be different. We saw that it was actually rainy right now. This tells us that as long as this government is engaged and will be in its seats, there will be no change in that plan, as in all other plans. And finally, I would like to say something that, in my opinion today, very little is spoken of in general, not only in Parliament, but also in Ukrainian society in general. I would like to stress this, because this was one of the topics raised by opposition MPs in the last vocation when they fought the criminal power of Janukovich and their dictatorship, which they tried to establish in parliament. Let's face it, yesterday's budget was adopted solely on the basis of the mass buttonage that took place in the Supreme Council. And if we close our eyes and believe that laws and principles can be violated in such matters, we will not be surprised if again in Parliament, God forbid, it will be repeated on January 16. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u14	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Yuri Miroshnick, "The Opposition Block." Next National Deputy Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, you know, you've probably been in the last hours, already when the Ukrainian Parliament is working in plenary mode, and all of us, each one of those going out to this rostrum, are trying to sum up the year that our country has been through -- an unforgivable year. I probably shouldn't repeat all the troubles that we've all been through, or talk about the challenges and risks that the country faces next year. Because yesterday and this morning's budget adoption process has shown us how much more we need to work on our own qualifications and the ability to negotiate and be responsible. Because the small resources that the country has are not the result or unifying factor for all the professionals of all the factions, how we can give an impetus to economic development, how we can support the most vulnerable population categories, how we can all come together around these problems to get out of this year stronger. Unfortunately, this has not happened, we continue to fight with each other, we continue to breed distrust with each other and to produce distrust of all parliament and power on the part of society. Everyone, to my conviction, and the national MP, and the citizen must take a deep look, first of all, at themselves: what each of us could do, what we couldn't do. Speaking of my personal feelings, I'll say one thing, the most I've missed in my work and in my work, well, my colleagues, as I see it, are the ability to overcome certain prejudices and work together. Each of us has often come out, not of interest, but of what I will look like in the eyes of society, of what I will look like in the rhetoric of public discussion. In my opinion, it is very important for us next year to gain wisdom, let us, God, have this wisdom, to have the courage to overcome all these prejudices and to work together. I would very much like the Ukrainian Parliament to become a pillar of the unification of Ukrainian society and of different types of population and regions next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u16	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Borislav Rosenblatt, the faction of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear friends. First of all, I wanted to welcome the Western Christians who are celebrating Christmas around the world today, wishing them success, prosperity, happiness, and health. Today we are all summarizing the work of Parliament in a year, summarizing the adoption of the budget. Today, we had a lot of negative reactions, and we had a positive, but what I wanted to say. I understand the agrarians today, I understand that these people today are planning their work under new conditions. Yeah, it's gonna be hard. I wanted to really tell you today how people with negative views about what the internal market is today. produce will grow, questions will arise, VAT will arise, because people have invested in the fall, bought fertilizer, and today they will be forced to pay taxes for it. But in all of this, we must all understand that the country is in a difficult state, and we must all bear our costs and our responsibility for the future of our country. But with the same thing, I wanted to emphasize the work that the government is not doing today, which we expect to take very many positive steps. I'm not talking about all the reforms that everyone is saying today, but that today our agriculture and our industries should take credit for 30 percent, they have to do today, work in conditions where there is no possibility of creating competitive rules, working conditions. They are working today without the prospect of finding a market. And I would also like to highlight the step that we took yesterday when we gave additional funds to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because it's very important in every ministry today to have trade representatives trying to open markets for our goods, and that's the main thing. In general, I understand that today Parliament -- well, I can't say that we worked very well, but we tried to work. We have done the reforms that our entire Ukrainian people are looking forward to today. And with regard to acceptance, I think this reform was, indeed, a reform of public procurement, it was really a breakthrough, it's something we can all be proud of today. So I just wanted to say hello, wish all of us inspiration, and by no means give up, find a way out of the crisis. And unity! Again with all the next holidays. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u18	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Alexander Marchenka, the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today is a work day, and I want to continue with a work issue that has not been completed by the Committee on Construction, Urban and Municipal Economy. By the Ukrainian Act of 21 June 2012, the number 4995 approved a state-wide target scheme for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities for 2012 - 2015. This programme is necessary for the implementation of the provisions of the Law of 4 September 2015 on the enforcement of housing rights of residents of hostels. During 2013-2015, the programme was not funded from the state budget of Ukraine. According to the Ministry of Ukraine, the program has not been implemented, and most of the hostels in the property of the regional communities have not been transferred. The program will be formally completed on December 31, 2015. The failure to continue the duration of the programme will result in the cessation of the transfer of dormitories to which Act No. 500 of State-owned property is extended to the property of territorial communities, which in turn will result in systemic and mass violations of the housing rights of the legal residents in which the act of this law is extended because they cannot privatize their rooms. Public and parliamentary hearings drew attention to this. In my speech, I want to address the Prime Minister. On the basis of this, I would like to urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit a bill on the extension of the deadline and on its corresponding financial security immediately before the end of the programme. The other one. Conduct a formal investigation and bring to justice the officials and officials responsible for failing to formally complete the terms of this program to the Supreme Council of the bill. And the third. As to the outcome of this parliamentary inquiry, the examinations and the steps you have been given to give me, in essence, a question in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. I'm asking you to have it as a parliamentary request. Dear colleagues, I want to thank today the fighters who are on the front, who are preserving Ukraine's independence. I want to thank the industrious tax payers who, despite the pressure of the anti - Ukrainian authorities, pay their taxes on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u20	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u21	and support Ukraine. And I want to thank all the Ukrainians who understand the situation. In the new year, I'm sure we'll have one today, I wish everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u22	Thank you. National Deputy Vladimir Ariev, Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the reform of the prosecutor's office is under way. And no matter how she goes, she goes. In doing so, we often find that even though there are so many contests, there are people who should be subject to the Law on the Cleanse of Power, on the illustration. In this case, I'm talking about Odessa District and the prosecutor, the interdisciplinary prosecutor of Kotovo District, Alexia Galaktionov, who was in this position back in Janukovich's day, who was famous for asking Kotov City Council in 2012 to give him land for a garage on four cars, 100 square meters. But then somehow he's going through the competition again -- and he becomes, he's reassigned to this prosecutor's office. The first question I have to ask is the procurator of the Odessa district of David Sacrarelidze. Why did he allow it, and why is Alexei Galaktionov still in office? Actually, I have a question before what schemes he's using right now to go into businesses and actually do extortion. Now there's a hole in the legislation that allows the prosecutor's office to go to the businesses in response to letters and appeals from public organizations. In Kotovsk, a hand-held social organization called the "Citizen Council of the Northern Region" was formed by the former head of the Kotovo Tax Police, Igor Black, released from corruption, and repeatedly convicted of drug-related crimes, such as Edward Malaka. And they write to the prosecutor of the Galactica, which is later. On the basis of which this Galacticathion begins to test entrepreneurs and then entrepreneurs bring known things to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office of the Kotovo district. I'm asking my colleagues from the Committee on Law Enforcement: look at the legislation. This latrine, where with the use of public organizations to help the unclean should be closed to prosecutors and immediately, and I ask that you consider this to be my official request to the Committee on Legal Protection to conduct a hearing on this subject and to submit a bill in legislation to eliminate this loophole. And accordingly, I want Attorney General Victor Shockin, I've already made this request, I've carried out a thorough inspection of Galactica's activities in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u24	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u25	In his office as district attorney, and after applying the Law on the Cleaning of Power, he released this person from the prosecutor's office, there should be no such person in the new prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u26	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Kodolu, the political party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u27	Thank you. Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, are coming to the end of the last days of 2015, the year of trials of perfection and hope, another year of reforms and fight against aggression, the year of the struggle for freedom and the European path for the development of our country. Despite all the heated debates in this room, despite the criticism of the society of our Supreme Council, you and I have not failed, as the Ukrainian Parliament, anything important to Ukraine's decision. Finally, tonight we were able to consolidate and adopt our nation’s most important economic law, the 2016 budget. In the year that has passed, little has been done in Ukraine, but it is likely that more will have to be done. Before building a new modern European country, we must continue to pursue reforms. We are ahead of the reform of the judicial system and the system of government, education and health reforms. In order to go this way and to live up to the expectations of millions of Ukrainians who have come out of the Dignity Revolution two years ago, we must overcome political ambitions, populism and irresponsibility. We cannot get out of this way, as we cannot betray the memory of the thousands of best sons and daughters of Ukraine who have given up their lives for their will and independence — their own lives. But despite all the hardships, losses, and trials, the new year holds out new expectations for the better. The hope of building a new modern democratic country, where there will be no corruption, where the rule of law will prevail, and the protection of the rights and interests of citizens will be the number one priority for the state. Hopes for economic development, for strong and strong Armed Forces, who are capable of resisting any enemy. Hope for peace, warmth, and peace in our homes. Dear friends, may the New Year’s celebrations bring prosperity, peace, and harmony to your home. May your heart be warmed by Christmas fires and be filled with hope and faith. May the warmth of comfortable dwellings and the love of your neighbor guard you. Health, inspiration, God’s blessing on you and your family, a blessed Christmas and a happy New Year. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u28	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Denis Silantiev, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u29	Dennis Silantiev, Radical Party of Lazko. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! For over a year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call has been in operation. What can we be proud of about developing physical culture and mass sports? By the beginning of 2015, the government had done everything possible to destroy all existing mechanisms to support the child recovery programme, the development of child and youth sports, the support of existing sports infrastructure. Instead, no alternative mechanism has been proposed in a year or even submitted for consideration. I emphasize that this is about a hundred thousand children deprived of health and sports opportunities, and tens of thousands of workers in the field of physical culture and contention who are losing their jobs. Sports infrastructure is almost destroyed. Children and adolescents, without alternatives, find themselves on the streets facing alcohol, smoking, drug addiction, and crime. Several examples of the so - called effective work of authority. First. For almost a year now, we've spent paying land and real estate taxes for physical and sporting objects back in the Tax Code. At the end of the year, unpaid amounts of these taxes will be formally recognised as tax debt, and hundreds of hectares of land where stadiums, managers, pools, sanatoriums, etc. are located. The other one. Both 2015 and 2016, the government has not developed or developed a child - care program in connection with the direct ban on the development of new government programs by the Cabinet of Ministers. Instead, numerous meetings of working groups, colleges, interministerial meetings, and so forth were held to address the issue of recovery. I said, why do all of this if the result is zero?Oh, my God! Why the trial? Our children will stay on the streets with you! Childhood and teenage crime, alcoholism, and drug abuse are on the rise. In my opinion, this state policy is a crime against its people! Another topic that doesn't move away. There is a clear and clear mechanism around the world for financing the development of physical culture and mass sports, which is the cost of selling a state lottery. But this question cannot be solved because it affects one’s interests. According to the initiative of the People’s Deputies of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska, a bill has been registered to put an end to the war between the mafia clans for the proceeds of the sale of the national lottery. This initiative introduces a full state monopoly on lottery activities to protect Ukraine’s economic interests and part of its income will be directed towards developing physical culture and sports. Thus, the government’s stated reforms remain only slogans. Instead, it was an initiative group that I led.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u30	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u31	Instead, the initiative group I led developed a package of legislative initiatives that stimulate the development of physical culture and mass sport. It motivates investors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u32	Finish up, please. How old are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u33	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u34	Well, please, finish. Because we have many willing speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u35	This program is approved by the Expert Council of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism and the Interfractional Union of the Healthy Nation, which includes representatives of all factions of Parliament. So I sincerely hope that, honourable colleagues, when these bills are put to the vote in the Supreme Council Hall, you will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u36	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy Igor Lucenka, political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u37	Dear friends! Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainian people! I'd like to go directly to the Ukrainians right now about what happened literally a few hours ago in this room during the so-called budget night. I believe that the reaction of the Ukrainian people to this thing should be to have this Parliament re-elected. Another reaction, I guess, I don't see any relevance here. Because it is Parliament that must be the source of the legitimacy of everything that is going on in the state. Because in our words we are called the parliamentary-presidential republic, Parliament is responsible for everything and Parliament is the closest institution to the people. Since it is the national MPs who communicate with the electorate daily, the nonexecutive branch of power is no longer the President. It is the MPs who look into the eyes of the electorate every day. And I don't know how to answer the voters right now, how to comment on what happened that night. Friends, if there are tens or hundreds of cameras in Parliament that may not adhere to the Constitution, do not adhere to the Rules, do not follow the spirit and the letter of the Ukrainian law, what do we say about the whole other country? What's to say about the claims we're making to the President's Administration, to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the Cabinet of Ministers, to all the other authorities. How can we, at all, MPs, approach them if we do this here in Parliament. So to this day, my view is that it is very important to ask very hard questions about the adequacy of this Parliament at all. The rule gives birth to compliance with laws, to the rule of law as such throughout the country. The next year, I hope, will be a year of saving the rule of law, saving the Constitution, saving the Ukrainian legislation. First of all, the most necessary thing is to return the investigation to our country. Because there is no investigation in our country today. The police do, and she doesn't have any investigators. So we have to save ourselves from this. First. The other one. We need to save the Constitution from the separatist and Russian changes that are now continuing to take place through the continuation of the cadence of this session of the current and other manipulations. We have to finally save the Constitution from the "portnovo changes" in the sudoustava, which word for word, letter for letter was written off of those changes that were being prepared by the well-known actor Yanukovich Portnow to change the Constitution. We have to save ourselves from this. So this is the order of the day for the following year. I welcome all my colleagues, welcome all the voters, all the Ukrainians for the next year. I hope that we will stand back and save Ukraine from all these calamities. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u38	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Gennady Krivoshei, the Political Party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u39	Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine. Good day, people's deputies, the most persistent. What I'm about to talk about will be very unpleasant to hear, unfortunately, from a small number of deputies and will be unpleasant to hear especially from the people of the Kyiv region. Yesterday at the sessions of the Kyiv District Council, members of the district council, I pay attention, do not support the initiative, or vote on the decision to give apartments to the families of the dead ATO participants. Shame! I can add one more word. I'd like those political powers not to apply, especially the Peter Prashenko Block, not applicable, but other political forces represented in the Supreme Council today have helped your deputies today at the fourth hour of the district council session to call and consider this issue again. I ask you to influence your deputies to vote for this decision, because it's not on their conscience, it's on both your conscience and our conscience. At the same time, I would like to point out that those political forces that are now even in opposition are represented in positions of authority. They run district, district, and city councils. So, dear friends, please, honourable national MPs, pay attention to this and bring to people the information that is actually going to work in places. Why we're not talking today about yesterday, or tonight, we've voted to increase budget revenues to the local level by six billion. Why we speak only of what is bad and what is wrong. Why we're driving our country negative. Dear friends, if all the political forces represented on the ground will work on a single team with an active government, with the President of Ukraine, with the Supreme Council, with all the people's deputies, then people will feel positive on the ground. Then people in places will feel decentralization. Then people will understand what they will get. And if you're only going to do populism, if you're going to embarrass your own constituents, you're going to get the price wrong. And I'd like to end with a positive note. I would like to welcome the whole of Ukraine with the coming New Year and Christmas Christ. I'd like to welcome you to today's festival. I'd like to wish my native Bogoslavska, Mironjska, Kagarlicina, Rokitnjan district a success. I wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u40	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u41	I would like to wish everyone peace and health. Happy New Year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u42	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Musia, a non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u43	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! Oleg Musei, Sokalska, National Control MP. You know what. What has happened is that we have adopted a shameful budget, but it continues to be extremely relevant in the daytime order, and I think it will be the first thing we should and must consider, this is the question of the suitability of many people in our Ukrainian government. And you know that in many sessions of district councils, district councils have already made decisions and petitions for the resignation of the Ukrainian government. I was approached by my native Sokalščina, where on December 15 was adopted unanimously, note, unanimously at a session of the District Council to appeal to Mr. Groissman as the Head of the Supreme Council and to me to read and announce from the Supreme Council's rostrum an appeal regarding the resignation of the government. So I'm going to let myself do that. As a result of a year of government activity led by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk, who came to power in the blood of the Heros of the Dignity Revolution and the Russian-Ukrainian War, there was an increase in municipal tariffs, a cut in social standards, an effort to sell out strategic and profitable enterprises and agricultural land. The sacrilegious organs, the persecution of political opponents, the throwing of nationalists, war participants and the Dignity Revolution, volunteers. Instead of taking effective management measures to resuscitate the state economy, entrepreneurship and improve the quality of life of Ukrainians, Arsenija Yatsenuk and his government were engaged only in the imitation of reforms, lobbying the interests of the oligarchic clans, and destroying political competitors. Despite promises in 2013, even then opposition Yatzenyuk reduced the tariffs on natural gas, electricity, utilities, at the initiative of his government on April 1, 2015, the energy tariffs for the population were increased without any economic justification. The gas of its own production is devoted to the supply of oligarchs, and a much more expensive import gas is sold to the population. Billions of gas cubes are disappearing for the purpose of sharing with private entities, and the government has already spent more than $1 billion on gas and electricity supplies in the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas, knowing that no one pays the bills for energy supplies. Therefore, given the facts of the many billions of corruption that are not under investigation, the fact that criminal conduct is not brought to justice requires the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider resigning the government under the leadership of Yatsenuk, based on the year of its activities: failed socio-economic policies, protection of the interests of the oligarchs, unwillingness to fight corruption. Adopted at the second session of the Sokal District Council of the Lviv Region VII convened on 15.12.2015. Considering that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u44	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u45	Before I finish my speech, I want to welcome everyone with the coming holidays, to wish to be cleansed of this stain that we were in in 2015. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u46	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy John Spores, the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u47	Dear Chairman, distinguished national deputies who have remained in the hall. First of all, I wanted to join all the Roman Catholic greetings that are celebrating the first day of Christ's Christmas, to wish them health, and yet the New Year will come, the Christmas of all Orthodox people will come. I think we're all going to be optimistic about the better future of our lives. It is hard enough to speak to me today as a national deputy major, where there are five rural areas. And by summarizing our work in a year, I'd like to point out that there's still a lot we've been able to do, a lot of things we haven't done. Many of the national deputies have already spoken about the shortcomings that have been expressed today and what we have not done this year. But what I'd like to say is, after all, add what we wanted to do, but we didn't do it this year. First of all, we said that this year we're going to take off the touch. That's not what we were able to do. We are again today when we come to our districts, and people ask us, why don't you do it? Again, the question was not the order of the day. I think most of the people's deputies would support that question. The other one. It would seem to be a small question, but at the same time we didn't make it possible for a bill to be adopted in the villages, which could have been returned to the FAP to sell medicine for the rural population. When we come to our districts, these pensioners come again and say why we can't do something that we can't go 30-40 kilometers to buy those or other pills from the heart or something. It's pretty insulting that we didn't do it anyway. Again we said that we would raise the price of milk or stabilize that the price of milk for our farmers living in milk was 4 bracelets. So it was delayed and we did not do so, and we would very much like to pay attention to it because today the farmer lives on milk. And if today, even if these minimum four bracelets were on milk and were to increase as much as possible, that would be much better. But I would still like to stop at our budget. Today, our national deputies from the village, we were unable to make sure that the tax guards were not cancelled. Unfortunately, we want to apologize to our peasants, to agricultural producers, because I also have a part of my own farm, where we had to work and where we could survive at least a little. Unfortunately, we won't be able to do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u48	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u49	And that's why I think we need to rebuild in this direction and we need to do everything we can to make sure that the taxpayers get back to us. I wish everyone health, and I think that in the new year we will do everything we can to make it better.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u50	Thank you. Welcome to Victor Krivenk's word. Olga the Mantis, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u51	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Perhaps many deputies have not yet realized that Friday is probably the best day in Parliament. Because Friday reminds me of the Parliament of England, the Irish Parliament, where only 100 laws are passed per year, and there are those who are willing to listen and hear. And it is Friday that there are those in Parliament who are willing to listen and hear. Therefore, I would like to say that the criticism of Parliament certainly has the right to exist. We've done very little, the "plan" stood high, but if we imagine what this Parliament has done, what the past Parliament has done, with the past power, we'll realize that we really have the results of the work. I would like to say that, apart from working in Parliament, we have other achievements that are actually related to the tragic events that are taking place in the country. We've been going to war for the second year. And the public and the volunteers were created a platform called "People Help People." Each of you, if you write these words on the Internet, you can go to a portal where you can gather information about all the families that have lost their breadwinner, the orphans, and the disabled parents who have lost their sons, without their parents. In the last six months, 157 families have been introduced into this platform, and directly, through direct access cards to help these families have already received assistance of 1 million 400,000 dollars. So I ask all of you to inform your partners that we today have a transparent targeting mechanism for all families who today need not only financial support but also attention. This system for me is a prototype of the new social protection system. When we talk about the need to fight corruption in the state, we have to remember to create alternative transparent mechanisms. So this platform "People Help People" is the mechanism where there is no way to steal physically. In addition, we were created, and I created a system for identifying the dead. By the end of the year, we can say that more than 1,800 remains had been removed from occupied areas, 769 DNA profiles had been removed, and 440 matches had been established. That is, 440 families received support from the State. In addition, we have trained 1,200 military psychologists who are now working in the regions and helping with rehabilitation. In addition, all military officers have been trained in paramedics. They've been doing this for over 4,000 years. In NATO countries this year, we were sent through a military-civil headquarters created by a decision of the RNB, of which I am co-head, to send over 250 heavy troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u52	Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u53	The treatment of each fighter costs NATO countries between $300 and $500,000. The total amount spent on treatment by NATO countries is over $75 million. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u54	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u55	the place where we can meet those who want to change the country, want to listen and hear, and together form a strategy for those actions that we can unite and change the country to make that small number of deputies, which today may be a picture for parliament, not just a picture, but an active mechanism. Thank you. With New Year's Eve and the coming Christmas!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u56	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Golovka, the non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u57	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished viewers! Before I get started on the subject of my speech, I cannot help but commenting on yesterday’s approval of the State Budget. It seemed rather inconsolable. The painting reminded me of, you know, the head of the colossus, such a bankrupt one, this role was played by our Prime Minister, Yatzenuk, who has nothing left. All the tractors were stolen, the farms were destroyed, the land was taken away by other colonies, and he's talking about the bright future of communism as they're going to build up, and, in fact, about some prospects. Sadly, the situation is rather dire. This budget is indeed a cabal and debt slavery, such a pyramid, because it has debts, only an official breakup of 92 billion, and external and domestic borrowings of 217 billion, plus the National Bank has to lend at least 38 billion to the government. In total, this exceeds more than 300 billion -- that's more than half of the revenue part, which is 592 billion dollars. So we're saying that the state is virtually deconstructed, we're practically in a technical default state, but it's not announced yet. And, of course, for such reforms, the government can be thanked for such actions by the current Prime Minister, whom all Ukraine does not trust, even by the local council of mistrust. Instead, he was assigned to form the budget that the country was to live by. And I don't want to say, however, from the subject of my speech, that unfortunately, I've had a conflict situation in the district of Ternopil in the Lanyevsky region: for over a half a year now, as residents of the town of Lanyovci have been at war with the company TOV "AgroLanivci", "Agrorodservis", with what they've built in the city itself, almost 10 meters away from housing, from the population. From the houses of the pork complex. And of course, it's just destroying ecology, and this horrible smell that's standing in the city has led to an environmental disaster. More than a thousand residents are taking part in protests, covering the road. And yet they have succeeded in making a deal with the local authorities, promising that by December 7, all pigs would be removed from the city and would allow the inhabitants to live peacefully in an environmentally clean city. Unfortunately, the AgroLanivci company has violated its terms, breached its agreements with the residents, sent young people out with a strong choice of trying to throw them out of the closure of the company. And, in principle, it caused even more conflict. So I go to the law enforcement system, to the prosecutor's office, to the attorney general, to the bureau, to the anti-corruption office, to the sanepidem station, to the other, to the environmental service, to figure out the conflict in question, and my statement is considered a question and, of course, to attract everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u58	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Yegor Soboljeva, political party of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u59	I think that all the people who have watched Parliament approve the spending of taxpayers for this year have very well understood that no family, no firm that respects itself, will ever be able to do so with their own money. I think it's a sad story that doesn't allow Parliament that has passed very many good laws, including yesterday's very important Act on the Transition to Electronic Public Procurement, which will mean even less light, even less opportunities for corruption, but still, in all our beautiful decisions, the coalition of "Cleptocratic Ukraine" unites at the crucial moment, sustains the corrupt Attorney General, sanctifies the corruption budget, does other things that Parliament doesn't have to do. In all of us, of course, here and in the streets, the huge question is, "How do you stop it? How can this be changed?".. I think the story with the Curve Horn, where Parliament has shown itself as a parliament, and people have shown themselves as citizens, is a good guide for the whole country. To stop the huge fraud of spending taxpayers' money in order to stop the huge fraud with the courts, with the prosecutor's office with no justice to stop the huge fraud with the regulation of the economy, which is still taking place in Azarian, people have to take the initiative, just as the people in Bloody Rose have risen up, they have risen up, and for months and a half, they haven't given up a decision that fixed the fraud, they've fixed the sabotage to make amends to cover the criminals. I think the Horn of Creature should be an example to all the inhabitants of all Ukrainian cities and villages. To unite, to those who break the law, to those who cover those who break the law, and to seek correction. If we're talking about the budget, in our hands, every citizen is a very important tool. It's also a good law, passed by our Parliament, on transparency in the use of public funds. Every payment made for the money of taxpayers or utilities or local council or ministry or government or parliament should be on the Internet. I think we need to focus on that wherever we live and whatever we do. Every payment for taxpayers’ money must be obvious, visible throughout the country. Let's make sure we do it in practice, make it normal next year. And then it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u60	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u61	And then no kleptoocratic Ukraine will ever win again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u62	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrea Shipka, the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u63	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, dear voters! There's an emergency Dam No. 8 on Dnipropetrovska. With regard to the dangerous condition of this dam, there was more than one meeting of the Regional Commission on Technological Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations. The situation in the dam, according to the protocol of the last six sessions of the commission, is classified as a possible extraordinary situation of a technological nature due to hydrodynamic accidents and as a result of a break-in of the dam with a wave of breakthroughs and catastrophic flooding. There have also been meetings at the central level, and meetings with the leadership of the State of Emergency Situations, with the management of the Ministry of Finance, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance. There's a lot of letters about this stuff, and you don't have to talk about it. Everyone admits that the situation is very serious, but the next thing you know, it doesn't work. If urgent action is not taken now, the NICOPOL and Apostolic regions will be flooded, several cities, and tens of thousands will be affected. The ATO zone will be completely cut off from central Ukraine. And these are products, medicines, and, most importantly, people's lives. Arsenija Petrovich, I hope the government understands that without the urgent repair of the road, which is the ridge of Dam No. 8, the tragedy is irreversible. And besides the government, no one can do that! It's not private property, it's state property. The state budget for 2016 has already been adopted, there are road repair costs. Other ways of financing can also be involved. 71 million dollars for the capital repair of Dam No. 8 is not the sum, it is the price of life and security! Today, the problem is that the process of passing the N 23 side of the highway has been delayed for years. All the documents are there, the Cabinet of Ministers' orders are there, and there is no proper balance keeping. I demand that the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine address this issue immediately. Today, there are all the grounds and documents necessary to transfer this area to the balance sheet of the Krauttodor. Please consider my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. And above all, honourable voters, distinguished national MPs, I would like to welcome everyone with the coming New Year and Christmas Christ! This year was not easy for our country. But I believe that there are new goals ahead, new ways, new victories and achievements for our people. Let 2016 be the year of rebirth! Happiness, good, peace, God’s blessing on all of us and our country! With the New Year and Christmas Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-25-m0.u64	Thank you. Before I finish, I'd like to make some announcements. I think they're going to be interesting and important and also to the MPs and also to the broadcasters. So I want to remind you of the order of our work in the coming weeks. From December 28th to December 31st, national MPs work with voters. From January 4th to January 15th, national deputies work in committees, factions and groups. From January 18th to January 22nd, national MPs work with voters. And the week from January 25th to January 29th will be plenary sessions. That is, the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, January 26, at 10 a.m. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome everyone with the coming festivals! I wish everyone a happy New Year and a bright Christmas. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
