ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I'd like a colleague of the National Deputies to take their seats in the hall, prepare for registration. A few words about yesterday. Dear colleagues, yesterday we adopted a number of decisions, including regarding the social protection of the Celestial 100 families. We've laid a good enough foundation with you yesterday to optimize the price of gas in Ukraine and we'll be preparing to consider this issue in a second reading. And we've also identified almost 3 billion dollars in funding for the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, which is important in restoring infrastructure in areas where we fully control the situation. I want to inform you, Your Honor, that we have taken another step towards the opening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If I've been told before that the public, the journalists don't know what officials we have in the House of Parliament, their declarations and other data that should be public, today I want to inform you that there is now information in open access about all the officials of the House of Parliament at a higher level, the declaration of the income of these people. I mean, I think the whole country needs to know and have access to public information about the Parliamentary Apparatus, as well as the Secretary of the Supreme Council, the Deputy Head of the Secretariat. Convinced of what we need. We have two or three other committees that have not provided information on this, I would recommend that we do it as quickly as possible in order for everyone to finally understand that the openness and publicity of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a guarantee of our quality. The quality of our work. Also, as we agreed, dear colleagues, today we expect information from a foreign minister. And we're going to build our work this way: we're going to spend 10 minutes on the minister's speech, 10 minutes on the question, so that we can hear about the latest international events. In general, we have a number of issues of order that we need to adopt, and it is important that we not stop on important issues but move on. Today we have a Southern, then a committee job and tomorrow a full-fledged plenary day, where there are a number of serious laws on both the gas market and the introduction of a visa-free regime. Therefore, I would like to stress the personal responsibility of the members of the Supreme Council for voting, as well as for the leadership of factions, to ensure that there is a 100 per cent presence of deputies at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address these issues. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Let's register. [[10:04:43]] 270 deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, today our colleague Andrew Pavelko, head of the Budget Committee, celebrates his birthday. Let's welcome Andrija Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Okay! Health and Success! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, Wednesday, 30 minutes for a speech by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for the recording, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the recording and register for the performance. Please sign up, colleagues! Let's sign up for the show. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u2	Good afternoon, everyone! I would like to say first of all to the public that yesterday, in our room, a very important bill was voted in the first reading. A bill that reduces the rent on the production of Ukrainian gas for state enterprises and for all other businesses, except for joint ventures, with 70 percent remaining. It's not just going to raise our gas sector. This will not just give us the opportunity to create an alternative to Russian gas. This will lead to a totally accurate reduction in the price of gas for people and heat tariffs for people who today are unable to pay these totally ridiculous tariffs. You know that there was a real struggle around this law yesterday. He was accepted only in the first reading. Now two weeks are given to deputies for comments and suggestions. And then it's going to go out into the hall. I would now like to thank all the people's deputies, all the factions that voted in favour of this bill, who have allowed people to actually get tariff cuts. It's first of all Peter Dusty's Block. Thank you for doing this. Because I know what the pressure was on you. This is Self-Help, the Radical Party, this is the Independents who fought with us, the Freedom Party. I want to thank the rebirth faction. I want to thank the opposition block parts that have been supported. And I can say that "The will of the people" also gave all the votes. Thank you, my dears, for doing so. But at the same time, we still need to work seriously with you. In order for Ukraine's policy to become a real, strong, national policy that raises the economy that puts our families on their feet that gives us a chance for reform. I believe that after this vote in Parliament, we have a lot of good things to do with you. But at the same time, it's a shame that all the factions called personally the Prime Minister so that there wouldn't be a vote. And yesterday, a statement was made by the Prime Minister, who is not in line with reality. And that is why we have every reason to start now, not fair reforms, but the real service of the people and the real change in the country. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u3	Alexander Wilkul, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u4	The well-respected people of Ukraine, respected people's deputies, would be enough to walk the world with their hands stretched out. The country will not survive by credit alone; it is necessary to raise its own industry. Not only are ordinary Ukrainians now, but virtually most politicians, and all experts say that it is necessary to change the Cabinet of Ministers, which has brought the country to ruin. But it is important to change not only Kabmin's personal composition, not only his leadership, but also his management structure. In the new Cabinet, it is necessary to urgently restore the position of the Minister of Industry, who will be responsible for specific industry development programmes. It is necessary to coordinate the adaptation of the products produced by our enterprises to European standards so that our products can be delivered to Europe after standardization and classification. There is also a need to fund strategic industries, such as the missile and space industries. Because businesses like Yusmash are already running for months at most, if not for weeks, when we lose entire industries. But the Minister of Industry should not be a simple politician who says the right slogans, there should be a person who understands the production, understands the industry, and directs people, not just in Facebook. We have developed the concept of new industrialization, and we are prepared to pass on all these bills to the new Minister of Industry. Because the main thing for us is not pier, the main thing for us is the normal development of the country, industry, wages and pensions. It is important to understand that only working enterprises will ensure urban development through decentralization. At the same time, we believe that decentralization will be real, and it's not just a pyrogram, and it will be realized. The taxes that will remain on the ground will provide local, urban supplements to teachers, doctors, budget workers. Municipal programmes on development and municipal transport, housing and utilities, and support for the most vulnerable sectors of the population, will be available. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u5	Vitaly Stasuk. Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Here I heard such a talk about yesterday’s vote, and I would like to return to it as well. Yesterday most of the Ukrainian Parliament, however, voted in the first reading (hopefully the latter) which advocates the interests of the gas oligarches business. The bill proposes to reduce the rent from 70 percent to 20 percent for so - called joint activities controlled by gas oligarchs who began to control MPs yesterday. This bill is a direct blow to the pockets of low-security citizens. Because subsidies, they receive directly from 70 percent of the rent -- 24.5 billion dollars for 3.3 million families that have already developed the grant. So by this vote yesterday, you're trying to take the grant away from the underprivileged and give it back to the rich oligarchs. Something like this came up in the Supreme Council with Robin Goody: take away from the poor and give gas to the oligarchs. I would like to remind you, by the way, that on March 2, this year, the Supreme Council voted on Bill 2213, which amended the Tax Code to increase the rent on gas. It was only in March this year, we're taking a roll call, here's Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, here's Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, here's Mr. Berezuk. Interestingly, how did you vote for the increase then, and today you vote for the decrease? To whom will you do it well? Do you do well to the gas oligarchs you took, or do you need to use this rostrum for the political pianist before the election to carry out the agitation? Please tell me, you members of the coalition who voted yesterday, you have an appointed coalition government, which is politically responsible for unpopular reforms. So when were you sincere, then or today? Do you fear political responsibility for unpopular reforms? And I want to end my statement by saying that yesterday's failure of gas reform is one of the key conditions of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The European Union requires a transparent gas market so that we can finally finish this and take off Russia's gas storm, and you're trying to get back to the country's head into this mess. The People's Front faction won't give you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u7	Julia Timoshenko, repeat a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u8	Dear friends, I have a replication of the Rules and I want to say that yesterday the Supreme Council suspended the adoption of a government law that introduced simply unique benefits for clans surrounded by government. We cut rents for everyone, including state enterprises, and 70 percent remained for those joint ventures that the MP was talking about. So the clans will pay for everything, but for people there will be a reduction in tariffs. And it's a shame to talk about degrading subsidies in the first place. If you place normal tariffs on gas and heat, no humiliating subsidies are needed. In addition, even Nadia Savchenko’s mother today is unable to obtain a certificate that Nadia is a participant in the ATO and obtain a grant. Can you imagine how simple people get these subsidies?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u9	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, a minute and then Yuri Lucenko. A replica? Did you get a last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, National Deputy Vojtsicka was very clear and transparent to all people who were not even very familiar with tariff mathematics, and explained that, unfortunately, Crushing did not become a real source of the Fund's payment of the grant. And so when we looked deeply at the calculator, on the TV, and with the experts, we found, together, we found, without demeaning anyone, we found the possibility of recalculating tariffs on a market basis. Therefore, dear colleagues, do not be offended, but work together to make tariffs marketable and enforceable for the payment of our citizens. Because if they can't pay, they can't be helped, so we're working together for the success of the Ukrainian economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u11	Yuri Lucenko, the lineup, the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! In reply to my last name as the head of the Petra Prashenko bloc, I would like to reiterate that our faction yesterday supported the first reading of the law, which allows for the recovery of Ukrainian gas. To live at the expense of the expensive, but expensive, reverse gas they supply, including unknown new firms created, is not considered necessary. At the same time, I emphasize the inadmissibility of speculation that we are allegedly legalizing, we are canceling 80 percent of the taxation of firms that were created by Yanukovic -- that is not true. You don't need coalition colleagues from the second faction to talk about it in public. But the truth is, the Prime Minister couldn't prove why the state company had to pay twice as many privates? I never did. I will never agree, and our faction will never allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u13	Ten seconds, finish up, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u14	We will never agree that state companies will be uncompetitive in this liberal government. Fear the Trojan Eagles, distinguished national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u15	Yes, colleagues, I very much ask that we all follow the Rules, colleagues. And every colleague mentioned had the right to a replica. But for justice, the next thing you have to say is that yesterday, when we passed the law on the first reading as a basis, the head of the profiling committee made a very clear proposal where there is no problem with SD. So you don't have to talk about it, absolutely. It's a normal position. But we still need, colleagues, to further develop these decisions on gas reform and to open up this market. Please, Skorik, National Deputy, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u16	Deputy Skorik, faction of the opposition block. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I would like to draw attention to a few points that I think concern many Ukrainian citizens. First. In this room for a while ago, there was a very vivid adoption of a rather interesting Law on Changes to the Final Provisions of the Budget Code, where it was said that several areas, including my native Odessa area, were entitled to use excess revenue from customs to repair and build roads. I have to report that literally a few days ago, the customs office has shown that there is no redefinition for today. So the building of the road that was mentioned in this law, directly by Odessa-Rani, who is concerned about the Odessa people, is both repairs and construction will not take place. I will not distract those present from the fact that, when this law was voted on, I think most people who are understood in the budgetary process, in the tender procedures, in the public administration understood that this law would not work and that it has no prospects. One thing you and I need to understand is that the government has to tell the truth. If the government directly violates Article 28 of the Budget Code on the fact that the government has to publish the budget in 15 months, on budget execution, and the government does not do so - and we need to understand that today, indeed, there is a serious budgetary overhaul, - I want to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine on behalf of the Odessa region, that if we really have the budget possibility, we should give our staff the budget and give them the money to make sure that the route "Odessa-Rani" and the other routes mentioned in this law are fixed already this year. And everyone understands that there are opportunities for that if the government wants it. And one more question. I want to say that, really, the question is now about the temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council. I want to remind everyone that we have repeatedly raised questions about the interim commission of inquiry concerning the events of May 2nd in Odessa. And some politicians are now saying that these events were a protection against mythical separatism. If so, there is a request to find these people who killed people in Odessa and reward them as heroes. And if that's not the case, find these people again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block. Colleagues, three minutes spent on replicas, we've just added in time for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, a few months ago, when the Law on Elections to Local Authorities was very violently adopted in this Hall, the efforts of the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities introduced a progressive norm on gender quotas. And we want to thank both the Head of the Supreme Council and the leader of the largest faction who supported this and helped us implement the law. But what was surprising was the fact that the head of the profiling committee, who, unfortunately, represents our faction, gave a strange interpretation of this norm that they were not required to carry out. I want to point out that in this way it was also an attempt to manipulate the Ukrainian courts when the same court first ruled that it was a mandatory norm, and then said that whoever wanted to reads it, who wanted to sing it anyway. Similarly, statements by some faction leaders who feel that the norm is not in time because society is not ready for it. It's not ready for leaders of some political factions who try to trade places like that in these elections, because Ukrainian women are much more educated, much more demonstrate their willingness to political work, and even these party, one-off, one-day projects that are built under. Only, they survive and demonstrate some, you know, more or less decentness at the expense of today's involvement of women volunteers, women who hold Ukraine on their shoulders very often. And that's why the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional merger requires political party leaders, heads of headquarters, to meet gender quotas. We are proud that among our colleges there are women who are running for mayors today. I want to give you an example of Oksana Jurinec, our colleague, who is now running for office as one of the most important cities in Ukraine, Lviv. And we'll get her to succeed. And I would also like to point out that this year is special in the question of equal opportunities. This is the year of the 15th anniversary of the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 and the 20th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platforms of Action, which in fact require Ukraine, which has undertaken these commitments, not a declaration, but a real respect for gender equality. We are very careful to monitor how the electoral process is being prepared today, more faithfully as these elections take place. And we want to say that despite all the law works, because for the first time, there are so many women going to the local councils, and that's going to let that change these local councils. This will allow decentralization to make them more responsible and professional. But I would like to point out once again that from the parliament, from the MPs, let's not assume that we can't talk about the failure to comply with the rules of the law. The law should also be implemented on gender quotas in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u19	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, "Peter Duster's Block". Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! I'm going to ask for your attention, because I have this kind of, you could say, family, intimate speech with respect to the MPs. Tomorrow we will work all day long, and most of us, as the classic said, will travel through the ruined cities because yesterday we voted to change the order of the day that we will see, my family friends, until November 3rd together. So since we're going to see each other until November 3, I'm not going to say a few popular things so that during the election campaign and the authorities and local officials will pay attention to them. The first unpopular thing to say is that the Ukrainian people are happy with the Ukrainian government that we have the highest percentage of people willing to serve in the police force. We circled all the countries leading and African combined. And I think, my friends, this indicator, and this competition is the index of poverty and misery in our country, not joy. Because if the person who works at the bank, the person who graduated from the prestigious universities, goes to the police today, because there are 8,000 or 10 officers, that's a disaster. And that's contempt for the people we voted for. Because the people we train at universities, they can't work anywhere but the police. And I'd like the government not every day to tell you how much it's written in the area and not to print this poverty rating, but to print out how many jobs it's created in every area and where it's employed our businessmen, entrepreneurs, young people. I had a serious conversation with the secretary of defense yesterday, and we talked in the hall. And he says to me, "That's absolutely right, yes, you're criticizing me. But why do you give the contractor in the Ukrainian army 3,000 and give the policeman 10,000? Is he going to protect your home land for 3,000?".. So I think there has to be a systemic approach. And this systemic approach can't be transformed into a pear, it can't be transformed into a segment. Small and medium-sized business tells us, friends, it's good that you've raised tariff issues, but raise the question of archergo. Because today we've both paid under the previous criminal authority, and with the current criminal authority we're paying, well, so the businessmen say, we're paying for a month ahead! Why Kyiv. And in some areas, two! Why does Kiyevenergo Ahmetov need a month ahead? Why does Firtash have to pay ahead of time in a month or two? Can't we put order in here? And the third position is also unpopular. When I think about our army and how many board runs I see in Ukraine, that's my offer. All those who support me, including the contract army, Ukraine, take down all the running boards and that money into the military and the Ukrainian army! Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Ukrainian army!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Yuri Derevyanko, nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. We know that it started, actually, the heating season started. And now every family, every Ukrainian family, thinks about how to heat their home, the apartment, how to pay for the payments that come. The "Will" political party offers you three steps, honourable colleagues, to allow people to winter. Step one. All together, ask the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council to give the commission today so that the committees will draft the law that we approved yesterday so that we can adopt it in a second reading tomorrow. This is step one. Step two. Note, dear colleagues, that we have a European gas price. That's 7,000 200 per metre cubic. But we don't have European gas quality. Today, according to the standard, the gas in Ukraine is expected to be 7,000 pounds [7,000 kg], at a time when the quality of the gas is not less than 9,000 kilocalories in Europe. Friends, notice that the average quality of gas in the European Union for consumers is 11,000 kilocalories. In countries like Holland, it's 10,000 731, and that's the minimum requirement, and that's the standard. In Denmark, there are 12,000 396. What does this talk about? This says that the quality of the gas we have is fraudulent. This is about what we have to do at the legislative level, and the "Will" political party has proposed a bill to adopt at the legislative level a minimum quality of gas, which should be at least 9,000 kilocalories per thousand meters cubic. Dear colleagues! We get gas, gas control, and it's like they're fines, and all the oligarchs today. We want to say that without European wages without European pensions, by consuming most of the European gas, we consume it in a quality that does not correspond to the quality that is in Europe. We have article 42 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the State protects the rights of consumers, controls the quality and safety of products and all kinds of services, and jobs. Dear friends! Gas is the same product as any other. So when we buy European gas, we have to make sure that the quality of the gas is right. And step three. We demand that Parliament adopt a bill this week concerning the directing of gas of its own resources exclusively to the needs of the population. This will give us a real opportunity to make the legislative basis so that the government can review the tariffs. We demand that the government review the tariffs and ask for the support of the entire hall to enable people to winter. The "Will" political party is offering this to all of our fellow national deputies, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u23	People's Deputy Storobug, People's Front. People's Deputy Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u24	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, which represents, inter alia, Novovolinsk-Sachtarski. Today, under the administration of the President, miners of the first mine declare hunger. $14 million in debt. For a few months, people have nothing to eat. I'm approaching Demchino yesterday, saying, "This is your responsibility, what are we going to do?" I don't know where, like, let them handle it on their own. I'm addressing everyone in the room, first of all colleagues from Peter Prashenko's Block, who recommended Demchino to the government. Let's either do something with Demchikin, or we can sort it out in Novovolinsky with the mines. So it's the biggest mess I've ever had. First, debts are, no one knows how to pay them. The second is that the miners change like gloves. From Donetsk, Lugansk sends one another, the moon passes -- they change, they change again. There's no strategy, what do we do? The shafts are closing. Come and tell the miners in their eyes: we'll close your mine then and then, the payments will be then and then. We'll be looking for a job together: Goose, Yatzenuk, Demchikin, all together. There is no understanding. So 10 mines are being built in Ukraine. 200 million is available for this year. Do you have 56, what do you do next? People don't know what their 2016 perspective is. You have to be honest with people, what do you do with a few thousand miners in Novovolinsk? There's an energy crisis. We're closing the mines. I'm talking to everyone again, if Demchisin can't handle it, he can't handle it, he needs to change the government now, get the mother in the fucking neck! Look for a professional from the Dust Block, self-help from anywhere, we need a person who can figure it out and not be afraid to come and answer questions. There is no such thing today. That's why I'm calling on Parliament, the same Demchino, the Dust Block: make suggestions. And I call on miners, especially those who join the Group Protect the Coal Branch, to come to the miners today, under the President's Administration, we have to tell them something. They have families, they have children, and they have these moments, we don't know, they don't understand, they need something to eat, they need to feed their families. So I call on the top, maybe the last time, to find a way out of the situation at all points, and don't be offended, my colleagues at the WFP, that this is a criticism against your minister. Let him work or get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u25	The People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u26	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear friends, we've been breaking copies of the gas problem for two days now. This may not be an accident, since one of the most serious issues, especially when people received payments, has practically entered every family. Travel is 600 per cent. Heat travel of 70 per cent. Of course, the person who receives a pension of 1,000 200 bracelets will answer the question of how to live after he has paid 800 grevens for utility payments and 300 grevens will pay for medicines – a mandatory package that he needs for a month, like the 100 bracelets he has left to live on. Of course, a very serious question is not answered. But I'll tell you what. Here we are, even here yesterday's consideration that was here, I don't think we're going to answer clearly these questions that are being left by society today. But there's a lot easier things, but there's no answer either, unfortunately. For example, who's going to answer to the pensioner -- I can't answer -- why he had a teapot before in 15 minutes, and today he doesn't have 30 minutes, with the expensive gas he pays for it. a huge amount of funds. For example, in Mariupola, I tried to figure out -- this is what our colleague earlier said -- what the calorieity of the gas is. I couldn't find it. It's impossible to do it in Mariupola. Go to Kharkiv, get the tests, the huge resources, and get the answer. This is the first moment. Or believe the "Transgas" statement, what "Transgas" gives us, and says, "This is the calorieity." I'd probably believe the teapot won't believe it. That's why I'm going to tell you. To date, unfortunately, there is no clear system for accounting for gas calorieity in Ukraine. We define it as a 1987 guest. According to a colleague, 7,000 pounds [7,000 kg] of fuel used to burn one cube, the average gas in Europe is 9,000. That is why we need to go out and look at this from the point of view of the State. This is the first moment. Second question. Why do our consumers start paying more after the gas meter has been tarnished? I don't want to blame anyone, but you tell me, you're going to try to do an independent examination of the instruments that went through torture in special institutions today. How do we do that today? Even with our pursuits, we won't be able to do that. That's the second topic. Third. We have repeatedly said here that let's approach the subsidy system as carefully as possible, let's work it out. We were told here, and the minister assured us that everything was fine, fine, we all rolled away, no questions asked. Please tell me why we have to make people spend extra money instead of saving up after the mandatory part of payments within social standards. For example, gas: 36 cubes are planned according to this standard, 14.4 is required to pay, in fact, the person spent 8 cubes, and I have it in Mariupola. Why does she have to pay for 14? By water: 8 - norm, 3.2 - to pay, actually spent a cube. Why does she have to pay 3.2? Do we have enough money in the state? Why do we force people to spend this money?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u27	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u28	And a few other questions. I have prepared all these simple requests for Kabmin to provide smart answers to these simple questions for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u29	One last speech, my dear colleagues. Mikola Ivanovich Lavric, "Block of Petra Dustenka". Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! I come out of this high rostrum for the first time in a year. First. I want to take all the insinuations from yesterday's vote. I am convinced that we have taken the right step on the rent, but it is only the first one, and we are obliged to go through it immediately and finally. I'm in favour of the national product: the own gas, oil, electricity -- being immediately open to everyone, publicly calculating the cost of producing this gas. Establishing a fixed profitability that is sufficient for the development of this sector. It is a product of every human being, and we are obliged to know what costs and their quality are. The other one. I would advise the government to refuse to publicly boast about subsidies in general today. I've already told the Minister of Finance, it's the humiliation of every person. Secondly, relative to the working population, it's a big problem, because a person, an employee, goes to the employer and demands that he pay his salary in envelopes. What's going on? We lose our taxes, we lose our subsidies, we lose our taxes. In order not to lose these subsidies. Third. We are obliged to move from drug addicts to a self - sufficient economy. And to do that, you need a program to encourage exports, industrial development, infrastructure projects. We have to create an insurance company to reduce public risks to investors. And then there will be the development of Ukraine and the nation and every human being. Thank you for your attention. Praise the Lord!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u31	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the time set by the deadline for speaking from the deputies, is over. As we agreed on the Conciliation Council, I invited the Foreign Minister of Ukraine, Paul Klimkin, to provide information on international events. And as we talked to you at the beginning, it's now 10 minutes for the Minister's information and then 10 minutes for the questions and answers to the Foreign Minister. I invite Paul Klimkin. Paul Anatolyevich, if you'd like to come to the rostrum, please inform the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am grateful for today’s invitation. And I appreciate the opportunity to inform Parliament about the main arrangements for meetings in Minsk, but also where we are in the talks in the Normandy format. I remember very well Minsk, the atmosphere of this meeting: the Russian attack in Debaltsev, the Russian attempt to impose its logic on the political process. And I felt very good about Paris -- it was a completely different conversation, a completely different atmosphere and another reality. Reality, because we feel much stronger. First of all, thanks to the actions of our soldiers who have been able to show that any attacks on our positions, any attempt at a military path, are impossible. So Paris is, of course, not the end of Russian aggression, but it's a chance. A chance to use it together for Ukrainian flags to appear in Donetsk, Luhansk, and Simferopol. So I'm going to focus on three blocks, on three key blocks of the deal. The first is safety. I've already asked: Minsk was involved in a Russian attack in Debaltsev. We fought and walked, during the war, from one tiny ceasefire to another. Now we're in a different logic, and I really hope that we're in the logic of a truce when our soldiers don't die, when we can stabilize the situation, achieve a real de-escalation. So the main arrangements of Minsk are: what now began, the Ukrainian initiative, the taking of tanks, light artillery, if you can normally call it light with a calibre of less than 100 millimeters, and minomets. A withdrawal that was agreed on the basis of Ukrainian priorities and Ukrainian vision. The second is the beginning of the exchange of someone, unknown to anyone, specifically under the auspices of the OSCE and only under the full control of the OSCE. Of course, the use of radio-electronic means of fighting the drones of the OSCE is prohibited. You all know that the OSCE drones have already seen a bunch of Russian weapons and have opened it to the world, objectively opening it to the world. By the way, the Russian delegation presented new evidence in Paris, not just us, but also the chancellor of Germany. But the main one, I stress, is the main agreement that many have not paid due attention to, is full access by the OSCE to all of Donbas, including areas adjacent to the Ukrainian-Russian border. We never had a chance to get that access. This access, as stated in the mandate of the OSCE mission, is our chance, our chance to control the situation indirectly, our chance to have more international cooperation in Donbas and our chance to gradually print out Russian Armed Forces, Russian technology, Russian mercenaries and, of course, terrorist armies. The second is the logic of the political process. You know, we've been trying to enforce or enact a law on the characteristics of local government, or we don't know what the logic of "list amnesty" is. Nothing will ever happen. Yesterday. One of the results of the Paris meeting is the cancellation of the next fair elections, although of course it's time to cancel the other fair elections on November 2. But in fact, the key agreement is on parliaments for future elections in Donbassa. First. They have to happen when the security situation fits, and it's going to be controlled by the Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights. The Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights will be admitted to Donbas territory, watch and monitor the situation. On the basis of objective criteria, the OSCE will conclude how to move forward. One second. Any options for future elections will be discussed solely on the basis of Ukrainian legislation and on the basis of the criteria of the OSCE. And we, by the way, led together once again, not only us, but also the German and French delegations, which are the criteria of the OSCE. These criteria of the OSCE are freedom of the media, freedom of political parties -- they are crucial to any democracy. They can't be ignored, they can't be played. So the Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights, starting with the next meeting, will be constantly present in this process. And that's how it's going to be organized. And the third moment is what's called "humanitarian measure." Now it's very clear to everyone that Russia is fully responsible for the humanitarian crisis in Donbas. The latest cases discussed in Paris are violent cases where, for example, Lugansk is simply trying to expel all the organizations of the United Nations system or when UN organizations are forced to register there, they are leading the situation to nowhere. Just like access to humanitarian aid, just like the Red Cross access to our captives, our hostages on Donbassa. And that's one of the key requirements right there in the humanitarian block. Of course, so is the release of our political prisoners in Russia, where the Russian delegation and, in particular, the President of Russia continue to refer to the Russian system. Which, as we all understand, works. So these three main blocks of agreement: security, political dimension and humanitarian dimension -- are very important. It's very important because we're in a different reality compared to Minsk. And I want to express my gratitude to our friends and partners, our German and French friends and partners for the constant pressure, for the understanding, for the promotion and for the very clear mediation that the violation of the Minsk agreements by Russia has its price now in the form of political pressure, in the form of sanctions, and will have an additional price if Russia does not continue to implement the Minsk Accords. So now we're focusing on doing what we've been able to agree on, and again, unfortunately, it is. Not the final line of Russian aggression, but the mood and atmosphere of our perception of power are completely different. And that's why we're in the norm process, really, and other reality. Thank you very much. I'd like to stop here and answer a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u33	Thank you, Paul Anatolyovich, for the information. Please, colleagues, prepare for enrollment. Ten minutes to ask. Please sign in. Ten minutes to ask. Please, Svetlana Zalitchuk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Minister! I am very grateful that you found the time and came to explain the results of the Paris meeting. The importance of explaining to Parliament and to society what is happening cannot be underestimated, for the continuation of the mine process will certainly depend on the way the state develops. So I urge you to spend more of this time. I have two questions at the same time. First. President Alland, in his speech, spoke of immunity, not amnesty, but immunity, for those candidates who would roam the occupied territories of the occupied territories. And the second. Please tell me, was the negotiations about securing the border? At what stage will the control of the Ukrainian State over the Ukrainian-Russian border be established in connection with the elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. Of course, I am willing to spend and spend as much time talking to members of Parliament as it takes. Consider this my responsibility. The idea of immunity was expressed by the French side. This is one of the ideas discussed during a post-conflict settlement. But I want to say one thing very clearly: any temporary immunity, temporary immunity from criminal persecution, will not free anyone from full-scale amnesty. Amnesty is not a political process. Amnesty is a legal process. It can only take place if we have the full authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is within the framework of Ukrainian legislation and the courts that operate within the framework of Ukrainian legislation. Experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u36	Thank you, Pavel Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u37	I want to. The experience of such amnesty is, for example, in the Balkan countries. In Croatia amnesty lasted 12 years. So amnesty is a legal process, not any legal process.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u38	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a very concise question, a very concise answer. We've got 10 minutes to get everyone to ask a question. Please, National Deputy Rybchin. Ah, Kugel? Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a two-part question. Do we all understand correctly and this is a clear position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that any election in the territory of the area of Donbas can take place only after the liberation of this territory from gang-forming, hire, Russian regular forces, the release of all technology and the exchange of hostages. That's the first question. And the second ingredient. Do you not think that the official position of the MFZ, which is the transfer rather than the cancellation of the election, on February 21st, this is the date of the shooting of Midan, is the first violation by Putin and his supporters of the Paris agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. On all the criteria of international law and on all the criteria we have, elections in an area where foreign troops or foreign technology are present are by definition impossible. How can elections be held when people with automatic machines drive tanks or on the streets of Donetsk or Lugansk? That's why I specifically stressed the agreement on EU access to the whole area of Donbas. This will be the first step in bringing these forces out. And second moment. It is the Bureau of Democracy and Human Rights that will draw a preliminary conclusion on the existence of a secure situation for elections. And if that is not the case, there is no choice. One second. We agreed to cancel those elections in Paris. The transfer game, I'm not going to comment on the date, it's of course a dirty game. And for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u41	Let me finish, please. I'm asking for a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u42	Thank you. Today, our absolute priority is to agree: first, the conditions under which elections are to take place, and second, the electoral modality, how to take into account the characteristics of such elections, such as the provision of voting and election for temporarily displaced persons. I apologize for this bureaucratic term.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u44	Dear Paul Anatolyovich! First of all, I want to express the position of our political power that the cessation of hostilities in the areas of Donbas is certainly Ukraine's victory. Because it was in our territory that there were tragedies and the end of those tragedies is our victory. I believe that holding elections in the areas of Donbas under Ukrainian legislation is a direct way to avoid an frozen conflict, which unfortunately is a frequent event in the territories of the former Soviet Union. And it is also a difficult but just, right way to avoid the frozen conflict and tragedy of the future. And the question to you is, please tell me, given that Parliament has to legally consolidate international agreements, what support from Parliament is needed for your office to successfully complete these agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u45	Thank you. Parliament's support is primarily political support – unity and support for the Minsk Accords. The Minsk arrangements are well - known.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u46	Thank you for the concise answer. Please Rephat Chubarov, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Minister! I accept all that you've had in the rostrum, but at least I don't have the answers to the question why and where do we know for sure that we have our partners, that Russia, which has brutally violated any international standards and its own obligations. Russia, which occupied Crimea, will come out of some of the OSCE’s election criteria? Why does this negotiation not raise the question of the depopulation of Crimea? And, Mr. Secretary, when we speak on behalf of Ukraine about political prisoners, let's not forget Ahtem Chigos, about seven Crimean Tatars, about the Saints, about the Colchenka, about the Crimean people. What I'd like to say is, how do you know Russia will stick to these arrangements?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. First of all, we have no confidence in Russia, no one in a civilized world has confidence in Russia. It's a perfect fact. Such confidence will not arise in the future. And our chance in Normandy format, in a different format, to use our power, but also political and other sanctions in particular, the pressure of our friends and partners to force Russia to adhere to these key standards and to have international co-operation there. One second. Crimea will never disappear until Crimea is liberated from Russia. "Normandian format" is designed specifically for processing what's happening on Donbassa, but the theme of Crimea. This is any meeting where I participated, where I participated in Ukraine, this is, in principle, even the beginning from the point of view that political prisoners should be considered completely, including Crimean Tatars. And I totally agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Matvienko, Peter Dustock's Block. Laconically, please, the question, the concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u50	Peter Dustock's Block, Matthew Anatoly. Paul Anatolyovich, well, I would like to express to you and diplomacy our gratitude for the great work we have done. Secondly, I want to support Mr. Chubarov for not being able to stop talking about Crimea. We don't hear you talking about Crimea, there's no public position. There can be no negotiations where there is no mention of Crimea. The point of my question is this. In the political bloc that you said you didn't say anything about your agreement that there could be no elections in the occupied areas of Donbas and Luhansk without order or control of the border and really demilitarization of the entire territory. You said you supported this position, but was it the subject of negotiations in Paris? And do you assure us that this condition will be a prerequisite for your politics and your authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u51	First of all, I assure you that Crimea has never, in any way, disappeared from the order of the day any negotiations, again, in which I participated, in which the delegation of Ukraine participated. I'm sure, and I'm talking to all the international partners that they're in every meeting and every negotiation that they're raising the situation around the Crimea very clearly. And by the way, about Crimea, there's a separate sanction package that you're going to operate until the situation is settled. And the second moment about the election. Without the demilitarization of Donbas, no elections are usually possible, and this was usually discussed on Friday as well. Of course. And the OSCE has to go directly, and the mission of the OSCE is not just to the whole territory of Donbas, but to the border. And this should start with real control that everything that goes into Ukraine has to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Paul Anatolyovich, in fact, we have time taken, completed, but there are three factions who want to ask one question. So please, "Radical faction" is one question, then "People's Front" and then "self-help." Three questions and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Thank you, Minister, for coming to Parliament to report on the outcome of the negotiations. But I am convinced that the society on this rostrum wanted to see President Dustenk to inform the Ukrainian society about the outcome of the negotiations. I have two specific questions for you. Why does the authorities deceive Ukrainian society? When the changes to the Constitution were voted on, they said there was no special status for Donbas. On October 2, German Chancellor Merkel announced that they had agreed on a special status for Donbas in the Constitution. Please confirm whether or not there is and what we agreed on on a special status for Donbas. The other one. I want you to confirm to the entire Ukrainian society that there will be no elections in Donbas until the Russian occupying forces are out of there and there will be no elections. One. And the second. No amnesty for the murderers of Ukrainian patriots, Ukrainian military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. First of all, there is no special status in nature. There is a law on the characteristics of local self - government that has voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u55	And that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u56	Supreme Council. This law, which has a corresponding reference to changes to the Constitution, is the only moment that ensures the characteristics of local self - government. And so I suggest you stop playing with this terminology. One second. I've been talking about amnesty again and again. All those who have committed crimes against humanity do not fall under amnesty in any way. They will never fall under amnesty. Never do those who killed, who shot down the Malaysian plane, who shot Mariupol, Wolnovas, ever fall under amnesty. And these, by the way, are not only our moral obligations, but also the key standards of international law. All those who commit crimes against humanity will be treated, not by amnesty, but by a completely different approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u57	What about the election?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u58	Elections of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u59	Finish, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u60	How can elections take place when Russian troops and Russian technicians are present. There are international criteria. What are we trying to open access to the OSCE for, access to the Office of Human Rights Democracy? For them to see objectively what is happening on Donbassa, and what are the security conditions for possible elections. There are no security conditions, no elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u61	If you risk what the minister said. First. No special status of territories has been defined by the draft before the Constitution, once. Second position. No amnesty for criminals against mankind, murderers, can be found at all, even in thought. And the third position. Elections can take place when all who have weapons are completely expelled from this territory, which is Ukrainian, which has no special status and will not have, and this should be uncontroversial standards. Please, Leonid Jemetz. That's enough, fellows! That's enough to speculate on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u62	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Our faction certainly welcomes the fact that for several weeks the cease-fire and cessation of hostilities have been ensured, in accordance with the Minsk Treaties. And I have a question for Mr. Secretary of State that is more of a legal and bureaucratic nature. So, anyway, just so we know, election and withdrawal, what's the algorithm? Do we foresee a procedure whereby the legislative procedure for the adoption of the Law on Elections in the territory of Donbas is possible only after there has been evidence of the withdrawal of foreign forces and armed gangs, or do you still foresee an algorithm that will start the adoption of the law, but already in the law, will provide for the specific conditions that the elections will be held solely after the actual certification of the withdrawal of military formations. So it's a very simple question: we start to adopt the law after.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u63	A very simple answer: to start discussing possible conditions for elections, including what we urgently need, the right to vote on persons temporarily displaced and the right to be elected, the discussion itself, such as with the involvement of the OSCE and on the basis of the OSCE standards, can begin now. We can only conduct elections and determine the conditions of these elections, including legislative ones, when we are confident that the conditions for these elections, in particular in the special areas currently occupied, are clearly there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Semimen Seminchenko, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Minister, please tell me, I have asked for the official text of the Minsk Agreements in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose strictness of implementation is constantly discussed by both the President of Ukraine and by the UN Security Council Resolution, which it supported. It is stated in paragraph 9 that the restoration of control over our border begins on the first day following the local elections and ends after a comprehensive political settlement. It is further stated that these measures must be taken, including the release from punishment, persecution and discrimination of persons associated with events in selected areas of Donetsk, Lugansk. That is, if we have signed these agreements and declared strict compliance if this is endorsed by the UN Security Council and by the statements of the masses of world leaders, how will we de facto avoid such consistency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u66	In fact, the sequence is this: it is possible to initiate the procedure only after the election. It's strictly legal because we don't have any local legitimate authorities in place before the elections. Accordingly, in no way will we have the real organs of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office and the real courts. After the election, we can initiate this procedure. As long as it lasts, I can't say for today, because once again, the case of Croatia is 12 years old, the case of other Balkan countries again. Thus, instigation does not mean that the procedure itself must end. This is a legal procedure, not a political procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I think we can thank the Foreign Minister for his comprehensive answers to the questions. Unfortunately, time is running out, so we need to move on to the day - to - day issues. Thank you, Minister, for always being prepared to cooperate with the Ukrainian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We have two ratifications submitted by the President of Ukraine, two draft laws. In view of today’s government meetings, these two bills will be reported by deputy ministers: the First Deputy Minister of Culture and the Deputy Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. Please, Your Honor, the issue of ratification (0061) of the bill on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values. There is a proposal: to consider this draft of the Act on Ratification under Short Procedure. Please be sure. It's the Ratification Act. Colleagues, pay attention! As far as ratification is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. Please. Offer, please. [[11:13:40]] For 133 All right, guys, let's do it again. I understand. Consolidate, please. Please, Your Honor, a proposal has been made to deal with the issue of the short-term Ratification Act. Attention! Please, Your Honor, please vote on this issue under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:14:18]] For-160. Thank you, Your Honor. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian President's draft Ukrainian Law (0061) on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values is proposed for consideration. The main goal of this intergovernmental organization, which now includes 134 countries, is to promote the preservation and restoration of cultural values on a global scale. I'm sure today's preservation of cultural heritage is more relevant than ever. For Ukraine, participation in the ICCROM, which is what this organization is called, will contribute to the exchange of experience, the teaching of Ukrainian conservation and preservation experts, the new restoration technologies, and will then contribute to the improvement of the quality of Ukraine's cultural heritage. It is worth noting that Ukraine's accession to the ICCROM is provided for in paragraph 453 of the Action for the Implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will significantly improve the quality of preservation of the cultural heritage in our country by giving Ukrainian experts access to the world’s experience in this queen. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please report. The head of the committee's subcommittee on the foreign affairs of Svetlana Zalszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u70	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a bill tabled by the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council support it. At the same time, we ask for our changes and additions. And that is, in paragraph 1 of the draft law, the sentence should be worded, "join on the terms defined in the Statute of the International Centre for the Study of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values", and add the word "added". The following sentence is worded as follows: “The Director General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization of UNESCO”, in brackets: “the official declaration of Ukraine’s accession”. And in the second paragraph of the draft, the appropriate sentence is to say, "To the Director General of UNESCO, the official application for Ukraine to join." The main scientific and expert office also supports this bill. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please two in favour, two in favor, is "against" necessary? Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Our faction will support the President's draft law on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values. We believe that any legislation aimed at deepening our cooperation with the international community must be properly supported in Parliament. But I would like to speak on the previous subject right now, this is a report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Klimkin, on the outcome of the negotiations in Paris. Because the issue is extremely important and key to the future development of the situation in Ukraine. I wonder why the authorities in Ukraine speak to society, to their fellow citizens, and to international partners abroad. Just now, Mr. Klimkin, answering my questions, asked my colleague Semenchenko, to the question of colleague Sobolev, said that the elections were only possible in Donbas in the event of the withdrawal of troops, that no amnesty would be granted to fighters, murderers, terrorists, and no special status. But we're reading messages from Paris. According to the results of the negotiations, the German chancellor said that they had agreed on a special status for Donbas and that special status should be enshrined in the Constitution. As a result of the negotiations, French President Alland says that they have agreed on amnesty and immunity for terrorists, and this must be done before the elections. It is repeated by President Poroshenko that amnesty applies to everyone without excluding terrorists. It's already said that first the elections, and then the Russian troops, and the border. Honorable officials, or many, are disrespectful, stop lying to the Ukrainian community, speak honestly about what you are negotiating abroad. Because the information we get from abroad contradicts what Mr. Klimkin just said. If that is true, as the minister said, thank God. But if the elections are in occupied areas, it's impossible. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u73	Article 36 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine first paragraph: "The speaker shall speak only on the matter from which he has been given the word and to observe the length of time given for the speech." Say it again? Article 36, we read the Rules. Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Vitaly Kurilo, Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, Vitaly Kurilo, Peter Poshenko Block, Luhansk Region. Our faction will vote and support this bill on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values. The problem in today’s world is the preservation of cultural values, especially values that have not only been for centuries but also for millenniums. See what is happening in Syria and Iraq when the same idol destroyed values in Palmyra over 1,000 years of age. And they were destroyed so that they could no longer return. Therefore, Ukraine must do everything in its power to preserve, to increase values, and especially so that young generations learn these values. There's one more moment. We temporarily lost Crimea. And so we've also lost significant cultural values. We need to be as in as many international organizations as possible, so that everyone knows if the Scythian gold belongs to it, and then there are no questions as to who Hersones belongs to and who belongs to all that is in our territory, in Ukraine. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. We move to the vote on the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the International Centre for the Study of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values, introduced by the President of Ukraine, 0061. I propose to vote on it as a basis and as a whole on ratification. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Ratification. Please vote. [[11:23:08]] For 258. Decision taken. The law has been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'd like to make a statement. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. The issue of ratification. Draft Law on Ratification. [[11:23:46]] For-161 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please report. Deputy Minister Hanna Vronska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Draft Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes, prepared by our Ministry for the purpose of adopting the amendments adopted at the third session of the Convention's meeting. The Convention itself was adopted in 1992. Ukraine joined the Convention in 1999. Initially, only member States of the European Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) were parties to the Convention, most of which are also members of the European Union. In 2003, the Council of the Parties of the Convention adopted an amendment that allowed any other UN member State to join it. However, in the context of the amendment, requests for accession by other States can only be considered when the amendment is accepted by all members who initially ratified the Convention, including Ukraine. Unfortunately, Ukraine remains the only State that has not yet accepted this amendment, thus blocking the process of adopting an important convention. The proposed bill had already been tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council, but it had not been considered in connection with the suspension of the Supreme Council’s powers in 2014. The adoption of amendments to the Convention will contribute to enhancing Ukraine's international image, Ukraine's involvement in the implementation of international regional agreements and the further development of mutual understanding and good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and the Member States of the UN/ECE. We ask you to support the bill on the adoption of amendments to the Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u77	Thank you. A report by the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Anna Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u78	Dear Ukrainians, honourable chairman, national deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of Amendments to Articles 26 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes by the President of Ukraine. And unanimously, he recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support this bill. In 1999, Ukraine joined the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes. The adoption of this bill, the adoption of amendments to the convention, will contribute to Ukraine's increased cooperation with the UN regional authorities. Furthermore, it will be possible to join the United Nations Convention of States outside the region of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. The committee is asking to support the adoption and ratification of this bill. And I would also like from this rostrum, perhaps in violation of the Rules, but also to thank all the people's deputies for the friendship groups that are now going abroad and lobbying for Ukraine's interests, not their parties, but for Ukraine's continued international support, financial, humanitarian, thinking about how to preserve the image of Ukraine and win the war with the aggressor. And so I would like to encourage all the colleagues who communicate with our international partners: remember the future of the state, do not think that just by solving your inner party matters, you can think of your political dividends. And one more thing I want to say is that the only way to resist an external enemy is to have unity within Ukraine. And today, at 2 p.m., the Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with the Committee on European Integration, is organizing a meeting on foreign policy priorities, where invited heads of all delegations, where also leaders of friendship groups, foreign ministers, are invited to discuss how we work together, as one national assembly, to defend our nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u79	Thank you. For justice's sake, I want to say that we have to follow the rules in our speeches. Is there a need for two "for", two "against", respectable colleagues? There's no "for", no "for", no "against"? Vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. One minute, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u80	202 constituency, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, of course, we will vote in favour of the draft law on the adoption of rights to a given convention. Yet, the issue remains with all representatives of the Committee on Environmental Policy. So far, this question has not been discussed in the committee; it has only come to us on the committee today. And let's, please, before the really important environmental issues are discussed under the dome of Parliament, before they are dealt with in committees that are involved in these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. He was viewed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs as being defined as the main committee, since it is a matter of ratifying the convention. We have not considered any questions without a committee. Please, colleagues, we are voting on 0062 of the draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to Articles 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes. Please vote in general, please support. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:30:10]] For 265 265 – Law adopted. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have a few questions that we didn't put into the agenda yesterday, that's a few blocks, and then we're going to look at organizational questions about committees. The first question is: 3207 is the question of electronic documentation for second reading, i.e. the economy of millions of expenditures of the Supreme Council and the reduction of paper usage. The second block: the visa-free issue is question 3154, 3155, 3171 – these are government- tabled three bills. 3177 is a matter that deals with the issue of military and civilian administrations. 3196 and 3197 are the issue of combating corruption and pre-trial investigation. Maybe we'll go over the blocks and vote on these laws like that? So we're going to put them into the agenda now, they're going to be sent to the committees, they're going to be worked out on the committees, and then we're going to look at them as we can in accordance with the Rules. Is there no objection to such an approach? Do we all immediately include in the agenda? All at once? Colleagues, please concentrate: inclusion in the agenda of the day session of questions that were not included in the agenda of the day session. That is, we are now including them for consideration in accordance with the Rules, perhaps for those who will be ready, this plenary week. Is such an offer accepted? Colleagues, once again: 3207 is electronic documentation, changes to the Rules. 3154 -- the issue of visa-free regime is brought up by the government. 3155 - Government has been introduced on visa-free issues. 3171 is government, also on visa-free issues. The issue of military civilian administrations is 3177. Next: The issue of combating corruption and pretrial investigation is 3196, 3197. I ask all colleagues to concentrate and allow committees to work on this issue. Please take your seats, questions that need to be included in the agenda of the day session to be considered by the committees and then approved. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote. Those I have listed, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and in accordance with the Rules with the possibility of consideration at this plenary week. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues, to support this initiative. Today, just from lunchtime, the committees may be able to consider. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:33:06]] For 185 Yes, in general, it's not accepted. Then let's do it this way. 3207 - Amendments to the Electronic Documents Rules to the second. Please, Oleg Romanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u82	Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, all the bills you're proposing are really important, but none of them passed the committee, none of them. So we're going to include these important bills as soon as they pass the committee, and they're not even going to appear in an electronic database like they passed. And I ask you to follow this booklet that you quoted today very carefully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u83	I would like to point out that the adoption of the agenda for the day's session is intended for the inclusion in the agenda of the day's session of laws that are to be considered on the committees, and that's what I'm talking about. And if you don't support this initiative, well, well, we'll still be working paper, we'll be spending millions of dollars. Well, if it's good for someone, please. Please, colleagues, one more time. 3207: Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for optimizing the legislative process – electronic documentation). To be included in the agenda and to be sent to the committee for consideration. Please, Your Honor, please vote, please support: electronic documentation in Parliament. 3207, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:34:46]] For-198 There are no votes needed. Others, I think it's not appropriate to put it into the agenda for the time being. All right, let's move on. According to organizational regulations. Draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation and election of appropriate heads and deputies of committees. 3115, Paul Pinzenik, please. 3115, 3116, reports Paul Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, you have a proposal for a bill, registration number 3115. At its meeting on September 16, 2015, Ireina Stepanovna, a member of the Party's Chamber of Deputies, presented a statement by the National MP of Ukraine, who was a member of the Party's Party, "Block of Petra Prashenko" Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, on the election of her member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, while releasing her from the duties of a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The committee noted that, at the time of the establishment of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth call from the deputy faction of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenko", was elected to the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of 14 Ukrainian National Deputies, from which the National Deputy of Ukraine Nasirov Roman suspended his mandate on 2 September 2015. Taking into account the Committee's presentation, it was decided that, in accordance with section I, paragraph 1, of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act, "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", an appropriate draft decision could be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommended to the Supreme Council. Ukraine is determined by voting for the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna as a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Please identify yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u85	Thank you. And the second order is 3116.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u86	Another decree. The following decree, registration number 3116, refers to the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" by Berezenka Sergio Ivanovich about his election as a member of the Health Committee. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the Party's MP "Block of Petra Prashenko" in the Health Committee has not been fully used, the Committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezenka, and submitted an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council (registration No. 3116). I will remind my distinguished colleagues that the national deputy, Berezenka, is not currently a member of any committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u87	Colleagues, we've already discussed this issue, 3115, 3116. Colleagues, please take your seats. 3115, membership of the committee. 3115, decree. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, MPs. 3115 is about joining the committee. Vote? Please, in general, draft regulation. 3115, please hold. It's an organizational question for Parliament. [[11:38:51]] For a hundred and 192 votes is not enough to make a positive decision on this issue. I think all the other questions will be similar. Okay. It's an organizational question. We will be able to look at it again when there is political will among the national deputies. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleagues. Questions about the first reading of drafts. 3017 is a draft resolution amending paragraph 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the appointment of alternate elections for local councils and rural, rural and urban councils in 2015. Please, Sergey Vlasenko. Okay. It's been four minutes, but there's an offer to consider these things in a simplified way. Is that what I'm saying? Yeah? There's a committee proposal. Let's figure it out now. Please, 3017, for consideration of the draft summary order. It's the committee's proposal to look at it that way, I'll bring it in. More specifically, the author, I'm sorry. 3017. Please. As far as consideration of the matter is concerned, a reduced procedure is involved. [[11:40:21]] For 165 Decision taken. Please, four minutes as from the author and the committee. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. Actually, the question is completely technical, you don't have to politicize it. The question is very simple. We are not currently identifying areas in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk, which is controlled by Ukraine, where the elections will take place. Just by adopting the Order on Assignment of Elections and by adopting the Law on Assignment of Elections, we have, let's say, created certain legal commissions, which on the one hand are not entirely constitutional, and on the other hand are not entirely valid, because, let's say, in the law that we passed later, we wrote what should be in the decision that was adopted earlier. And that doesn't fit anymore because we've already written it down in this decree. So actually, very simple things are being offered. Laws 3017 and 3018, these are two bills that have to be voted together, and a simple thing is proposed. It is proposed to remove the procedure for approval by the Supreme Council of the decision of the CTC to establish those local councils in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk, where elections are held in the country under control. This does not apply to occupied areas. Because there we clearly determined that the elections were not being held there. Similarly, it is proposed in the Local Elections Act to introduce one line that allows the CEVC to approve areas where, I mean, territories separate, areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas controlled by Ukraine, Ukraine where elections are held. Again. There is no question of listing these areas. The question is not about anything else. The point is that according to the current CLTC Regulation, which already defines the territories and local councils in which the elections will take place, it is not legally final. Because according to our determination, it should be further confirmed that it is unconstitutional. And then, we propose. We've got it. We propose to amend the Elections Order by excluding the mechanism for the approval of this decree by the Supreme Council. That is, the decision of the CEC, which has already been adopted, will be final and there will be no questions. Similarly, we propose that similar changes be made to the Electoral Law, except that we should indicate something in the Elections Ordinance. That's it. This is simply a technical solution to legal colleges. I finished a long time earlier. Thank you. I've got everything. The only thing that the committee unanimously decided to recommend both a decision and a draft law to adopt as a basis and as a whole so that there are no questions in international observers, that we are illegally holding elections in the area of Donetsk and Luhansk, which is controlled by Ukrainian authorities, and that this issue is fully resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Please sign in. Two for, two against. 3017. Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front will support this draft decision because it is technical in nature and will allow elections to be held in accordance with our laws. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u92	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction strongly supports elections in the unoccupied part of the Donetsk region and has always fought for human rights. Election rights are rights enshrined in the Constitution. And that's why we have to give people the opportunity to vote. Only because of the elections, because of the first, second, third, will we allow people in the Donetsk region to take responsibility for the choices that people make so that they don't become decentralization. Which we make so that people don't say that Kiev is to blame or anyone else is to blame. We need to make a conscious choice and, unlike our opposing colleagues who see Donbas as their electorate, we are fighting for, in fact, human rights. But I do have some warnings about the procedure for the C.V.C.A. election in Donbassa. Because there is a selective, some incomprehensible situation for me, some cities. For example, Mariupol, we're running elections and that's really the right thing to do, but in cities like Costinovka, Artemis, we don't run elections. Why? I don't understand. So this procedure has to be completely optimal. And I also want to talk about the vote on displaced persons. There is a bill that has been drafted by a number of deputies from the Donetsk Region and from all over Ukraine to give forced displaced persons the right to vote in the communities that they are part of. For example, Donetsk National University moved to Winnitz, where they became part of the community, and those people should have the right to vote. And that's what happens to us that when we have a mine process and now we have to secure a vote in the occupied part of the settlers, all of a sudden we need it. And they also have to balance the vote with the separatists, and before that they weren't needed. That is why we should also give the right to vote to forced displaced persons. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u94	Please give the floor to a well-known expert in the field of electoral law, Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u95	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u96	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I'm just, uh, respected colleagues, I don't understand what we're talking about? A decree amending the Elections Ordinance (3017)? Are we discussing with them the proposal of a committee to amend Law 3018? Are we talking about immigrants, or are we talking about something? Because the committee head, as I understand it, acted on two draft orders accordingly. So if we're only talking about 3017, I'm going to express my position, if we're talking about 3018, then I would ask for a separate position from the committee, because it was our committee, and it's not fair for the committee to restrict it in that position. As for 3017, really, the point is that we have to correct that technical error that we've made here, it wasn't completely technical, I would call it, the humanitarian one. We just took over a little bit of the Supreme Council. And since the Constitution does not provide for this, we need to return to the constitutional field. The point is that we then, remember, simply wrote in a decree to approve Parliament and on the same day to adopt appropriate amendments to the Law on Military and Civil Administrations, where military and civilian administrations have given such powers to make appropriate submissions to the CLTC and the decision of the CLTC to approve them, and then to send them to Parliament for further approval. In order for this absurdity to return to the legal plane right now, we really have to vote on the 3017 decree as a whole. And after 3018 let's have a separate discussion, we'll support it, but our committee also wants to express its position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u97	3018 separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u98	Thank you. We have a question, we're looking at 3017 right now. Please, Len People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u99	I pass the word "Lascow" to Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u100	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Deputies of the Radical Party have registered a draft ruling that provides for the cancellation of elections in general, even in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, which are now controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. I would like to remind you that in Parliament we have voted on the Military and Civil Administrations Act, which was passed on to the local authorities at the time of the anti-terrorist operation. We are absolutely convinced that as a result of the elections in Ukraine's controlled territories today, through a formal legal way, due to Ukrainian law, many separatists and terrorists will come to the local authorities who, because of the lack of judicial activity, because of the inaction of the prosecutor's office and the law enforcement agencies that are currently persecuting the terrorists, the investigative isolations in Mariupola, Staribilski, Rubižny, North-Donadic, were killed by patriots. Instead, no separatist has been convicted, no organizer of last year's illegal referendums on secession of Ukrainian territory is condemned. Today, they have the opportunity to travel to local authorities. Those who betrayed the country yesterday, those who called Putin, those who formally wear Ukrainian passports and in souls and hopes hate Ukraine and do everything to destroy it, today we give them the opportunity to become deputies, to be Ukrainian deputies and to say that they are Ukrainian authorities. We insist that the military and civilian administrations exercise their powers, including those with local authorities, until the end of the Russian occupation of Donbas. When the Donbas war is over, then we'll have an election there. But there is certainly going to be a disintegration before the elections, so that all those who have betrayed the country will never be Ukrainian authorities, never be able to do so again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u102	Please, a minute, Opposition Block, factions that didn't participate. Then a minute later, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, this statement is more addressed to the inhabitants of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, namely, those territories that are under control, that in this plenary meeting, using a literate word that this is a solution to technical inaccuracies, there is actually an attack on the basis of constitutional order in our State, which is an attack on the basis that the only source of authority is the primary national sovereignty. In fact, this decree seeks to eliminate these citizens from participating in local elections, in particular in areas such as the Artemov region, the Constantinople region. This is the representative of Fatherland saying we're fighting for the electorate. Yes, of course, we are fighting for the electorate, we are fighting for every voter who wants to make a negative assessment of the current authority, and yet this power does not allow these voters to express their views, to have their representation in those territories. I appeal not to support this decision because it is anti-constitutional, as it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, Egor Sobolev, a minute. And here we go, colleagues, to the vote. The discussion is over, and I would ask everyone to take their seats as national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u105	Self-help supports the election on the free side of Donbas. We repeat, this is a war: the right to choose power or the right to do whatever it wants with its citizens. Therefore, Donbass’s voters must be given the right to vote for their representatives, to learn to select and control their representatives. We stress, however, that when we vote in favour of this draft decision, we have to have a Central Election Commission that we trust. The mandate of most members of the CLTC ended more than a year ago. The name of the current head of the CBC is Ohendowski. We remind the President of Ukraine of his promise to appoint a new composition of the CBC. Self-help has already nominated Eugene Radchenk, creator of the Ukrainian Electoral Committee. Let's make a normal center for a normal election.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the draft Order amending paragraph 4 of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of alternate elections for local councils and rural, rural and urban councils in 2015. The draft ruling is closed, and we can go to the vote. draft Regulation 3017. Each and every one of them. It's going to be 3018. 3017 will now be voted. Ready to vote, colleagues, 3017? Please, colleagues, I'm voting. 3017 as a whole. The reporter is Sergey Vlasenko. 3017 draft regulation as a whole. 3017 draft decrees. In general. [[11:54:13]] For 211 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I didn't get the required number of votes. There is an offer to return, but please be careful, fellow believers. Come into the hall, be careful. There's a proposal for the bill's author to come back because they haven't been able to vote. Okay, I'll do it. But one time. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Back to Project Review (Registration No. 3017). Return to consideration of this decision. Please return to consideration of this decree, 3017. Please vote in favour of a return to consideration of this decree, 3017. Return. [[11:55:30.]] For 216 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. We can fix it. Please, one minute, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So once again, this is a completely technical thing, we're cleaning up disagreements with the Constitution right now. But if we don't clean them up, that means that the decision of the CEC to determine the local councils where elections are to be held is not final and is not legal. This means that we undermine the legitimacy of elections in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk, which are controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. For according to the ruling in force today, by decree of the Supreme Council, this ruling of the CEC should be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there's no such thing. It's not constitutional. And then we have to make a technical adjustment. Thank you. I ask everyone to vote for this. What are we doing? Tomorrow the elections in Donetsk and Lugansk will be declared illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u108	Thank you. Colleagues! Come on. Please suggest to the head of the committee: return to consideration 3017. Please identify yourself as to what you are considering. Let's get back to it. Please. We're not coming back. 3017, please. To return to consideration. [[11:57:25]] For 216 The decision is not taken. 216. There is an offer to return the subject for retraining. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues. Okay. Considered rejected. The decision is considered to be rejected. Okay. Let's do 3017 then. We'll go back to that question. Okay. Please, 3018, dear colleagues. Draft Act amending paragraph 4 of Section XV to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. National MP Vlasenko. There is a proposal to consider the short procedure of this bill, the amendments to the law. Please identify yourself with regard to the consideration of the simplified procedure. [[11:58:34]] For 184 Decision taken. Please invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Look at the situation. I'm just going to remind you of the history of this question. Remember, in these walls, we passed the Local Elections Act before the Elections Order. So it was technically that, unfortunately, Parliament was just not ready to make the right decision at the time of the adoption of the law. And then in the Transitional Regulations to the Law, we predicted the rule that the list of the administrative and territorial units that. in which no election is to be held, it is to be determined in the Decision on the Assignment of the Elections. But the point is that the law was passed and a few days later we approached the decision. It was actually accepted on the last day before the 90 - day deadline. And in the decision itself, we decided not to set such a list, but to make a blank, that is, a reference rule for other parliamentary decrees, which, first of all, define the corresponding line of separation and all the territories to the border that fall within the scope of the Law on Specialities. a special order of local self-government in individual areas of Donetské, Lugansk region, as well as a reference to the law granting the status of occupied territories to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. And so it happened that the law came into effect later than we had taken a decision that had taken effect before. So it turned out to be a complicated abracadabra, which we now want to solve by making changes to the law, where we remove the second sentence in the fourth part of the "Transitional Provisions," which is exactly what we're sending us to a decision where we haven't defined that list. For the sake of legal purity, let us now vote and we will have no questions about what we have to read the Law and the Elections Ordinance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please. Please, Olena Boyko People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please let's go back to 3017 and 3018 and treat this as a technical law. Motivation has already been said by both Mr. Knazević and Mr. Vlasenko. The People's Front supports such technical remedies and asks not to make this a big policy. This is a perfectly normal decision that the Constitution requires of us. Let's go back to constitutional norms. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Alexander Abdulin, Fatherland. Sergei Vlasenko "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u113	Thank you! Dear colleagues, I repeat one simple thing: unfortunately, this political issue is a political issue. And if we don't now make decisions on 3018 and 3017, which are of a purely technical nature, we question all elections in the controlled Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Because today there is no legal list where elections are held in free territory, in the Ukrainian territory of Donetsk, Lugansk, where they are not held. The rulings of the CEC, which were adopted almost a month ago, are not formally effective today, because they seem to be, I emphasize this, as if to be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is unconstitutional. So to get an election in Ukrainian. In Ukraine's controlled areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, we must now accept 3017 and 3018 as a basis and as a whole. All those colleagues who don't agree with the lists that the military-civil administrations have submitted that the CLC approved, I want to go to the military-civil administrations and the CLF. We are not discussing this issue right now, we are not discussing the issue of lists of regions and local councils, where elections are held and where they are not held. We're talking about something else. We are talking about the fact that, according to the law, the only body that establishes the list of local councils where elections are held is the CLTC, and we should harmonise legislation by excluding double interpretations, excluding all disagreements. It's just a technical law. Please support him. Thank you. And back by 3017 it is necessary. Only in pairs do these two laws work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u114	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I will take away some emotion in the discussion of this issue. Since Mr. Vlasenko is indeed a literate lawyer, I will also speak the legal language of what is now. What decision do they try to force you to take, either by deception or by means? in other forms. First, I would like to say that, indeed, these bills were adopted in connection with the adoption of the Local Elections Act on 14 July and the relevant Local Elections Ordinance. The document and the document state that the elections are not held: (a) in the Non-Controlled Territory of Donetsk and Lugansk; (b) in the controlled territory that is close to those territories, the elections shall not be held by decision of the CLTC taken on the basis of reasoned representations of the military-civil administrations. I am the people's representative of Ukraine, and this decision must be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I, as a national deputy, have been requested by the Central Electoral Commission to provide the relevant representations of the military-civil administrations. I've been given these ideas. There were three submissions, one of which was a hindrance, which is why I had already appealed to the court yesterday to appeal this order to the CER. However, on the basis of these submissions, the CEC, without any justification, has the following wording: “It is not possible to ensure the safety of citizens”. All of it. The Artemov region, Constantinovost district, my hometown of Artemovsk, does not participate in the elections. At the same time, they take the third decree, which states that there are two decrees, 207 and 208, which have not been approved by the Supreme Council. And the third ruling, which states that it is impossible to organize the electoral process. That is, the Central Electoral Commission, without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, suspended the electoral commission on 29 August this year and blocked the electoral commission in violation of its powers. In fact, by usurping power in violation of the Constitution, without taking into account the decision of the Supreme Council, you are now invited to legalize.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Parliament is now trying to legalize the illegal actions of the Central Electoral Commission. I would like to remind you that the mandate of today's Central Electoral Commission has ceased on June 1, 2014. In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine should submit to Parliament the application for the release of members of the Central Electoral Commission and the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission. For 16 months, the President of Ukraine has not exercised his constitutional powers and has not submitted to Parliament an appointment and release of members of the Central Electoral Commission. In this regard, I, as a national MP and the Radical Party, have appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine to require the President of Ukraine to exercise his constitutional powers. The hearing of the President’s commitment to submit an appointment for new members of the Central Electoral Commission starts tomorrow at 3 p.m. at the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. I invite desirable Ukrainian national deputies and representatives of the press. Why is the President of Ukraine not fulfilling his constitutional obligations for 16 months? Why does the president of Ukraine keep the old Central Election Commission on the lineup? I've only got one logical answer: so that this compound can fake the election. That's why Hendovsky's charade was awarded the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. And we're going to have these falsifications in the local elections today. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of these draft laws. We are firmly opposed to falsifying local and any other election. And we demand that the President of Ukraine implement the Constitution and submit a submission to the new members of the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u118	Irina Heratschenko, please, a minute, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, our faction will support these two technical and very necessary decisions. But with regard to the discussion on the need to vote on displaced persons, this is our position. The patriots of Ukraine must choose. The Donbas Patriots must choose the power of Donbas. We can't give motorcycles a chance to form the future power of Donbas. And that's why we're fighting to destroy the putin script that the Donbas authorities will choose "givi" and "engines." And that's why we need to develop and adopt such amendments to the Elections Act so that all those displaced under arms pressure from Donbas could not only vote for the future power of Donbas, but also be elected, and represent Ukraine in Donbas, because Donbas is Ukraine. And this position is right. But when people say that one Ukrainian citizen can vote twice, it is also a violation of the Constitution. And so it's obvious that man has to choose the authority of the region that they represent. And the settlers all say that they represent Donbas and that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u120	Please give me a minute, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! From this rostrum, I proposed a decision that we are discussing. And then we talked about how the Donbas elections were supposed to take place where they could be held safely. The degree of this security is established by the military civilian administration through the CLTC, and today's ruling only simplifies this move. Because the Supreme Council doesn't work for the next week, and then it won't be able to cancel the elections in Shirokino. And it is absurd to vote for deputies in Shirokino or other populated areas that are directly on the collision line. And one more thing. The CBC is bad, they don't trust society, but they want to talk about the tip to the people they've approved, because they've approved the election of those who are so critical and even those who are taking bribes as a result of this election, so we're going to change the CBC. But please pick out the words of those who received the mandate from the hands of this exclamation point.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the matter. I think we've decided on the vote, we'll continue the vote after the break, which is what I have to announce according to the rules. I'll call it a break for 30 minutes. We're starting a meeting at 12.40. Please, everyone, please come to the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the time for the break is over. I ask that you come into the hall to continue our work and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that the work is about to begin. Please, fellow classmates, we're going into the hall from the towers. Dear colleagues, once again I urge everyone to enter the hall. We have to have important election votes, we're not enough to go on. Please, colleagues, let's go into the pool hall. Let's get started. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Law Registration No. 1402 – draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for free transfer to the administration and use of confiscated and unconsolidated means of transport), prepared by Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Lucenko. There's an offer from the author. Colleagues, please. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft Law by a reduced procedure. There is a proposal by the author to review the draft Law, 1402. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote on the draft Act on short notice. Please identify yourself. [[13:04:44]] For-138 We didn't make it. Colleagues, please have the proposal of the author of the bill to consider this draft Law, 1402, under a reduced procedure. Please prepare yourself to consider this proposal. Please. We vote, Your Honor, on the consideration of the draft law by a reduced procedure. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[13:05:26]] For a hundred and Now I'm going to put your proposal to the vote again. Please, Your Honor, Irina Lucenko's offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, 1402. Please, please, consider the simplified procedure. [[13:06:08]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please report to Irina Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, well, perhaps these two bills, which follow one another, already do. They're not like beards, they've been working for almost a year. The essence of the bill is very simple. As of July 2014, 2,000,40 vehicles were concentrated at the Ukrainian customs office, which are owned by the state and accounted for by its remains as being misimported into customs territory, such as those left unattended, and on, on, on, on, on, on. On January 1, 2015, 3,000 717 vehicles were stockpiled at customs warehouses. These are light trucks, vans, trailers, trucks, and semitrailers. Back in 2014, when military action began in the east, and me and the girls, Masha Ionova and Ira Herashchenko, drove a lot. And it came up that these means of transport in the war, which are up to two weeks or less, need our volunteer battalions and our army. Three weeks ago, we met with Poltorak, and he says, "Why are you keeping this law?" Even now that these mine issues are resolved, and so on, and so forth, the army needs these means of transport. So this law is relevant for two reasons. Why did they accumulate on customs, the means of transport? Because the taxes to be paid for them are high enough for these cars, and their ages are 5 to 10 years old, they're, well, not enough for ordinary citizens to be auctioned off by these means of transport. What is proposed in this bill? It is proposed that the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and other military formations be excluded from the congregation’s payroll for compulsory state pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u126	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u127	Their mergers, military units and units until December 31, 2016, which are freely transferred to power, the use of light cars, confiscated, found, recognised as ownershipless, for which the owner did not seek until the end of the shelf life, and those that, on grounds of inheritance or other legal grounds, have been transferred to the property of the state operating on January 1, 2015. The essence of the bill is very simple. Armed forces need technology. We're releasing by the end of 2016 the military forces that I counted and other military formations that are legal in Ukraine from these taxes. In this case, if this means that the vehicle is somehow being sold, it will be subject to all the necessary payments that exist today and are mandatory. That's the point of the bill. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. A report by the chairman of the committee. Thank you, Irina Stepanovna. A report by the chairman of the committee. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Nina Petrovna, please report by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u129	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! As already stated by the author of the bill, all measures have been taken to secure our military formations in transport vehicles in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation at the expense of confiscated and dispossessed cars that have become state-owned. Indeed, both in the working group and on the committee we considered the purpose of such an action, and so the committee's decision was to support this bill and recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. But given the relevance of this issue, and the fact that it's been delayed very many times, I think it's appropriate to propose that the bill be passed as a law as a whole. For this reason, please consider (for the transcript) the following editorial text: from the second paragraph of section 1 of section 1 of the bill, the words and the digits "which are accounted for as of 1 January 2015" should be deleted. Irina! In addition, we ask that the Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct a technical and legal review of the law that we have adopted. Thank you. And I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Please two in favour, two in favor. Please sign up. Is there a need? Please. Sign up, two for, two for. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block. Paul Kishkar. I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Please give the floor to Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u132	Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u133	First. I thank the drafters for the good idea, because we need the Armed Forces, only in the Armed Forces in the motor vehicle group, to serve AT more than 10,000. I believe that this law can be adopted. The only idea is to add an entry in a technical passport without the right of alienation, or to make another footnote so that the State does not lose the customs payments that are due in paying for such a car. On importation into Ukraine of such car transport. Because I'm afraid our officials can find a way out of the situation and implement such a transport without paying any taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u134	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. There is no doubt that the bill is very important. But the practice of doing so must be irreprehensible. I'm going to give you an example of what opened up Zaporez's police district office and the state auto inspection in Zaporozhye district of the whole ganging that took cars in occupied areas: Crimea, Donetsk, Lugansk. They were being chased into an outlaw, in the Hersonian region, and then there were three schemes for the implementation of these decommissioned cars. The first scheme was declared harmless. The second scheme was just stupidly breaking numbers along a criminal path. And the third scheme was when they announced that the owner agreed to sell these cars. So it happened that I sent a request to the Attorney General, to Mr. Awakov's chief of police, where he described the whole scheme, called dozens of license plates of cars that are stolen and numbered in the database as being stolen. He called the companies that tried to implement these cars, including through the Zaporozhye region. Today, I don't have the answer to any of these statements, even though there are names, specific license plates, directly, the names of the companies that did this. Irina, I'm asking you to take this into account in your bill, because I'm afraid this bill doesn't now begin to implement cars that have legitimate owners who have these cars taken away from the state of war. And then this is actually going to be a legalization scheme for this system. The state won't get a bribe, it won't get excise payments, the pension fund won't get anything, and all of these criminals who hide in the dark will have income. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u137	Leonid Yemen, People's Front. We support this bill, but we have some comments that they're going to say, I'm asking you to give the floor to the colleague Yuri Wozniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u139	In fact, the bill is really correct and has the right purpose. But there are some warnings that this law will be able to use unrepentant individuals. And we had a pretty lively discussion on the committee, so we made a decision on the committee to support it. There is some danger that the car classification is very wide. And if we're going to adopt a bill for ATO purposes, so the cars have to be the ones that are going to be useful, right in the ATO area. Therefore, the second reading needs to be looked at by the classification of these cars and then, after that, by voting in general. Thus, the People's Front will vote in favour of the bill only on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u140	Mikhailo Papiev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. The very idea of this bill is positive. But, you know, our experience shows and can be predicted how this law will be fulfilled. Believe me, now that we're part of a temporary investigation commission on Mukachev's events, we've been in warehouses of those that, by the way, are not in customs knowledge, but are in the knowledge of the State Executive Service, and this is a separate office and it can be used, especially in the realisation of cars, to write novels and those corrupt schemes that work today. So if we make this decision, we have a clear and clear set up a category of cars to be transferred to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. If we don't, you'll see that the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be taken from these warehouses, primarily Mercedes, Bentley, Porsche and other cars. So this has to be clear and clearly stated that these should be microbuses (and which categories) that these should be jeeps, that everywhere and other clearly spelled cars. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this bill requires serious work and a clear definition of the category of these cars. And we need to make sure that we're able to prevent corruption. And as far as the State Executive Service is concerned, and as it's making money right now, the corruption schemes on these cars are a subject of a separate conversation. I'm sure we have a committee on anti-corruption, and he'll pay attention to that, too. We need to uphold this law, but we need to work on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u142	Thank you. It's a pantyhose. Valery's punk, one minute, please. Andrew Antonishtak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u143	Dear friends, what are we talking about? I fully support what the gentleman is saying right now, Mr. Sobolev. But this is a completely different question that needs to be settled now. The language of the bill and its contents speak solely of one, the means of transport that are now in the State Executive Service. So that they have a clear transfer to our Armed Forces, or ATO. And we, as members of the Temporary Investigation Commission, have actually seen a single number of these means of transport during the handling of the Torturer case. The decision of our Temporary Investigation Commission was to introduce such a bill. But Irina Stepanovna Lucenko introduced it in advance, for which we want to thank her. And please don't delay adopting this law. There's a clear procedure. They have no means of transportation. And we ask this law to be supported on the basis and in general. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Andrew Antonishtak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u145	Respectable Society! I'd like to ask this bill to support it as a whole. Because I really agree with my pal Packa. We were part of the Temporary Investigation Commission at the warehouses, and we saw how many cars there are in the Zakartat district, on this customs office. But it's different. I've been to other customs. And very much, several times more. It's the same on Jagotino Customs. The main thing is that there are fuses. I don't agree with Mr. Papiev, there's a fuse. Those cars, those vehicles that were imported and fixed by 01.01.2015. And two, which is the main thing. Saving those cars at customs warehouses is very expensive. If I'm not mistaken, 10 euros a day. So we can't sell those cars out of auction because their storage price is a few times higher than we can sell. And indeed, weapons formations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u147	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, this bill has been in the Supreme Council since the last vocation. And from my point of view, it's completely impossible to explain logically. At a time when school buses (think about it, society), thousands of confiscated trucks, cars, jeeps, and so on are sent to the front. The law does not provide for them to be passed on to someone. Of course, Kabminu’s decree, which comes after the adoption of this law, can provide a special mark, and should provide a special mark, allowing them to be counted exclusively in the military. But, fellows, it's just a shame when we take transport vehicles into business and budget, but we don't want to pass such a law to the front. It seems to me that we must now fulfill this responsibility, support this bill, and finally allow thousands of cars who are in the confiscation to work to win. And the last. Of course, every law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u149	Every law in Ukraine can be used in the wrong direction. The speakers were already talking about the bells, about everything else. Each judge to the extent of his loose conduct. I think this law should give the military transport. Period. There are others who can come up with schemes, and we have to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk. Aunt Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, this bill proposes not to hold a pension insurance assembly in the form of ownership rights for light cars operating on January 1, 2015. And the fact that the action proposed by the standards extends only to cars operating on January 1st gives us reason to recognize it as a one-time thing. So, according to the rules of legislation, this rule should be translated into "Transitional positions." And it's going to take all the questions out there that it's going to be a permanent pattern. Another issue that we need to resolve with you between the first and the second readings is actually the stated purpose of the bill, the partial provision of transport supplies in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Because it's written in an explanatory note, but at the same time, it doesn't really work out in the law. It states that such means of transport are transferred to the Ministry of Defence, the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u152	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u153	Other military formations. So if we support this urgent bill in the first reading, we vote in favour of the second short-term revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u154	Thank you. Colleagues, in fact, we finished the discussion, everyone who had the opportunity to speak. I suggest you do it this way. Now make a signal vote on the adoption of this bill on the basis and, according to the outcome of the vote, take a further decision or it will be discussed and we will put it to the vote on the basis of the vote in the coming days. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. The signal vote on this law 1402. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for free transfer to power and use of confiscated and non-economic means of transport). Please vote. Voting is a signal, based on colleagues, on a basis. Signal on the base. [[13:24:56]] For 206 Thank you, colleagues. We've discussed the law and then we'll decide on the vote. Registration No. 1403 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law, the Ukrainian Tax Code. It's the same law he's going into development, as far as I can tell? There is a need to discuss whether he is a derivative before? It is, isn't it? There's a brief proposal to consider it, please, 1403. Irina Lucenko, too, author. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. [[13:25:43]] For-167 Please, Irina Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! These two bills at the beginning of my talk I said that we would look at them together, in a complex, because we allow one bill. One bill excludes members of the congregation from compulsory state pension insurance and another bill provides for the temporary exemption until 31 December 2017 from taxes on added value and excise taxes on the operation of free transfer into power and the use of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Armed Forces and so on. This is for Mr. Papiev. I'm going to answer your question about what kind of cars are going to be. I note, units, military units and units, buses, 8702 codes, passenger cars, 8703 trucks, 8704 vehicles, and so on. The essence of the bill is the same as the previous one. On the rap sheet of a self-help colleague, we were looking at this bill on the committee, and then I didn't hear her comment, and they came out now. On partial front security, we can't provide three or four thousand cars. Because a colleague of ours here said from non-fractionals that it takes more than 10,000 cars, but that's what we can do right now. I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill. There's two of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u156	Thank you. Please report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u157	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention first as co-author of the two bills, to what is said, a phrase that is completely unread to the end. draft law with my colleagues. These are three thousand cars that have legally become state - owned and have become stateless. Do you understand? They're not the ones that were naturally involved in this cohort of cars out there. So we're going to rule out any kind of tampering with the number of cars that can be transferred if we adopt this bill. Then, as far as it's concerned, it's temporary. It's a temporary emergency. This is said in two places: that the action of this action is only until December 31st 2015. 16th year, and it's just the cars on January 1, 2015. And the category of cars was just read by the coauthor of the bill. We did the best we could to ensure that there was no abuse. The bill, after consideration and in committee working groups, was suggested to recommend that we accept, in fact, only on a basis. But we've done everything we can. The urgency of this question comes with each day. So I suggest you accept two bills as a basis and in general, it is absolutely necessary. No abuse is almost impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're going to consider it discussed, too, because it goes into an additional 1402. No objections? And we'll go back to the study. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have a draft law, registration number. For discussion, the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for taxation in the agri-industrial complex). There is a proposal for the National MP Bakumenko to consider this bill in a simplified procedure, a colleague. Please be determined. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[13:30:17]] For-147 Colleagues, the offer of the Bakumenko People's Deputy to review the draft law on a reduced procedure, under a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself. Proposal by the National MP Bakumenko: summary procedure for the review of the law. [[13:30:46.]] For a hundred and Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the last year, there have been three extensive reviews of the Ukrainian Tax Code, particularly in the framework of tax reform. The changes were made without public discussion and took place in a hurry. In practice, this has led to excessive tax burdens, technical and legal errors and disagreements. That is why, after a number of consultations with the agrarians, Project 2585 offered a comprehensive solution to the accumulated problems. The bill proposes to address four large clusters of issues. The first block refers to taxation of by - and - by agricultural products. The project proposes to include by-products of plant and animal origin: straw, halves, almonds, manure, fold into the list of products for whole taxation. This can be used for the production of alternative electricity by agrarians in the future. In this regard, we propose that electric alternative energy producers be allowed to pay the only fourth group tax with certain restrictions on their turnover. The second block refers to the taxation of new non-residential property taxes. Excluding taxes on children’s gardens, schools, clubs, and other social infrastructure in the village from the property, as well as specifying the number of buildings and buildings directly used in agriculture and exempt from taxes. In addition, we propose that all payers be exempt from the payment of this tax by the only tax of the fourth group. Another important issue in this bill. Tax payers should have time to learn how to administer this new tax, so we suggest that all tax payers cancel for 2015 fines for violations of the calculation order and the correctness of filling out the Housing Tax Declaration. The third block is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u160	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u161	It deals with land issues. The fourth block is mainly about correcting technical errors in tax legislation. First of all, the absurd norm, according to which persons who are not taxpayers of income tax are forced to pay the advance fee from that tax. Well, that's an exception. There's no time, so please, we're proposing this bill to find a compromise between the state and the agro-producers, which will not only allow the issue of taxation to be settled, but also for the APC to become a "economy locomotive". Dear colleagues, please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna is the report. 2585. Eugene Nina Petrovna. Eugene Nina Petrovna, 2585, please on the rostrum. The committee's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! On April 22, 2015, at its meeting, the committee reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code on Agricultural Taxation, submitted by the National MP Bakumenko. The author reported on the substance of the bill itself. In discussing the bill at the committee meeting, the members of the committee noted that the amendments proposed by the bill were correct, since in the majority they clarified and improved tax standards, corrected technical errors and inconsistencies resulting from the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, which we adopted last December and created a conflict of interests that had a negative impact on tax administration and did not contribute to business development. In doing so, it was noted that there was a need for further processing of the real - estate tax proposal. Nor did they support the proposal to exclude from the Ukrainian Tax Code the rules on the need for processing and registration in accordance with the law of ownership of land for tax purposes. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Tax Code on Agricultural Taxation, submitted by the People's Deputy of Bakumenko and other people's deputies, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against, for discussion. Please. The corner of Taras Viktorovich, the block of Petra Dustenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Corner Taras, Poltavian. Although the bill was considered by the tax committee, it was also discussed in depth on an agrarian committee. And I want to say that the vast majority of the members of the committee are very careful to follow this bill and ask you to support it in the first reading. In fact, there have been a lot of technical disagreements that today make the lives of agrarians difficult, not because of some fundamental things, but because of the mistakes made by the Supreme Council. The things that are proposed meaningfully before change are, I think, such an innovative character, including what is involved in the production of electricity to farmers and for their own needs, taking into account the tariffs that are there today. And we remember that not so long ago were the so - called projected and planned power outages. We understand how important this is to agrarians as it is in a situation where, for example, a farm or an enterprise that, theoretically without electricity, cannot work. For example, a bird could literally be without electricity for a few hours, otherwise it would not be reverse processes that would lead to major damage. So I ask all my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading. Its co-authors are very many national deputies, mostly members of the agrarian committee. So thank you. Including the Tax Committee. So please support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, there was Vassil Alexanderovich, the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u167	I give you my word to Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u168	Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u169	Thank you. Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Party, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill. Today, we must at least partially remedy the situation in particular sectors of the economy as a result of the rapid amendment to the Tax Code at the end of last year. Especially many tax problems have arisen in agriculture. First of all, it's a 20-fold increase in the single tax and the introduction of taxes, the cost of producers to pay and the delivery of pensions. The latter was the result of a tragic technical error when in the law the words "fixed tax payers" were replaced by "single group 4 tax payers". In addition, early next year, payers will have to pay a new housing tax. Taxation will include kindergartens, schools, clubs in rural areas. And this is because private factories, for example, are exempt from paying such a tax. Therefore, the project proposes to exclude the tax facilities of the country’s buildings and social infrastructure, as well as a clear list of non-taxable agrarian properties. Moreover, it is important to have a project standard that applies to the limitation of fines for breach of the housing tax system. It takes time for housing tax payers to learn how to administer the tax properly. And what's important is it's not just about the APC, it's about everyone except the economics. The bill should therefore be supported in the first reading. I'm asking my colleagues to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u170	Thank you. Jemetz Leonid Alexanderovich, People's Front faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u171	People's Front faction, Germany Leonid Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you that there is a agriculture. What a garden is, what it is to grow your own potatoes. And that's what this task is for small, small, what it's called now, farmers. Not that agricultural farm, where there are hundreds of thousands of hectares of land. And that's why our faction has always been that the oligarches that get the profits have to pay the taxes. And small farmers who survive and get the minimum profit have to pay the minimum tax. And as long as this is not provided for by legislation, until there is differentiation, we will not support a bill aimed at ensuring that farmers' oligarchs receive profits and thus deprive small farmers of the opportunity to survive in these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Ostrika Tetjana, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! There are, of course, positive things in this bill. For example, about expanding the concept of agricultural products by including both side and side products. There are positive things on the income tax. It is predicted that the advance income tax is not paid when dividends are paid to persons who are not single taxpayers. And we support that. But I want to pay attention to those colleagues who talked about the profits of the oligarchs that need to be removed. Did you note that this bill provides for the release from taxes on immovable property of a number of industrial, industrial properties, particularly warehouses? I mean, these are all logistics complexes, and these are thousands of square meters that we're going to fall off the subject of taxation. And there is no attachment to agriculture. That's the first one. Secondly, it's suggested that taxes be taxed on the real estate of the building of sports and health care facilities in rural areas, and these are film sports clubs, these are private rest bases, hotels. Why should we exempt them from taxes on immovable property? Because this is the basis of local budgets and it's built into the income of the local budgets for 2016. So the Self-Help faction will only support this bill on the first reading. And we're going to be very carefully preparing the revisions to the second reading to rule out all these discussion standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u174	Thank you. They didn't include the Radical Party faction, the Fatherland, the Opposition Block. That's why in a sequence like this, the Radical Party -- Ljashko, Dobjenkov -- "The Opposition Block", Ivchenko -- "The Fatherland". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u175	Fellow citizens of the Ukrainian village! Agriculture is the locomotive that pulls our country out. The peasants are people who have to bow low to their feet for feeding, including the official class, when they have one seven-man job with a spoon. So, of course, a bill aimed at simplifying rural taxation is supported by the Radical Party faction. But let's not just talk about taxing the village. A major problem is the lack of social infrastructure in the countryside. This requires not only exemption from taxation of social infrastructure, but also the introduction of state programs to support farmers who will invest their own resources in the development of social infrastructure in the countryside: schools, kindergartens, and plumbing. The government should see to it that there is an increase in the amount of gas consumed at the price of the debt, for people in the village today do not know how to survive the winter. So we support a village that will save Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u176	Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u177	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, in fact, not only the previous factions, but representatives of the previous factions are concerned about caring for farmers and Ukrainian villages. The Opposition Block will also support this legislative initiative, because, of course, it's very useful for the village, for agricultural enterprises, where, in particular, the Ukrainian village is now holding. But I would like to point out that this legislative initiative is aimed at correcting the low standards that were adopted last December during the so-called tax reform. Here's the result, the rush of tax reform, the coalition. You're correcting your mistakes again. And we're going to help you, of course, because it's really, really good for agriculture, agriculture and peasants, in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u178	Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u179	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it is certainly difficult to "gather potatoes" on the Cave Hills. But, indeed, there are things that deserve attention today. Today, a farmer is willing to pay for land rent, but you know he can't register. During the failed registration reform or the reform of the registration services of such lands, up to 20 percent. He can't actually pay, he's forced to move on to the general tax system. And that's what this law decides! Next is fines. We've only introduced a real estate tax today. Yeah, of course, Self-help said we need to know a clear list that falls under non-taxation. And the last. Have you forgotten who is today paying for the delivery of pensions to people who worked in agriculture? And on the 9th point, we predict that farmers will not now pay pensions to pensioners who worked in the power industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u180	Please. 30 seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, of course, we have to work on it. Each faction, each of the deputies, has certain warnings about certain things. But I'm asking you very much that we (we've been waiting for this bill for a long time while it's out in the room) vote in the first reading for a reduced procedure, give our amendments, and finally start to love, love those who bring dollars into our budget, love those who work on the ground, love the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u182	Thank you. Another line from the People's Front. Exhale, please, one minute of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you this: Today we are all working on the country being decentralized for decentralization. At the beginning of the fiscal year, we accepted a number of property taxes and placed them in line with local councils. Today the property tax is a local tax, and we have given all the authority, and the functions of the rural councils, the district councils, to manage that tax. In their sessions, they may decide to cancel the tax on one or the other companies. If it really is a school or a cultural house, the village council is authorized to support it so as not to pay taxes on real estate. If this room seems rented to someone, the village head knows about it, rural deputies know about it, and they make the right decisions. Let us, then, leave the authority of the village councils and local councils to make decisions regarding the tax. Accordingly, the People's Front will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've already finished our discussion of Bill 2585. Should we make a signal vote or move the decision to a later date? Signal. Please, I'm asking you to come into the House of Fellow People's Deputies. As long as the people's deputies enter the hall, please give me one minute from the government. Who? Please, one minute to the government representative while the deputies enter the hall. Please come in. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u185	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Vladimir Lapa, deputy minister of agrarian politics. I'll tell you, even for one point, it's the payment of benefits to farmers, and it's worth the first reading of this bill. In fact, we made a branch of the Pension Fund out of a company. There is no branch of the national economy in this mode. I'm asking you to support in the first reading, we're getting an extremely large number of references from agricultural enterprises. I think that the tax committee and the agrarian will be able to work with all the comments on the second reading. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u186	Thank you. I am betting a vote on the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (No. 2585). Please be sure. [[13:50:39]] For 213 213 for. Let's re-vote, I'm asking who's in the room to concentrate, I'm re-voting, if there's not enough votes this time, we're going to go to the next bill. And that's why I'm betting on a vote, and the author's asking me to postpone the vote, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give me one minute. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u187	I'd like to postpone the vote, because we're seeing a signal that there are no votes in the room today. We are from the author's team, in which more than 10 people's deputies, from virtually all factions of Parliament, ask that the vote be postponed to tomorrow and that we decide in the next "yes" or "no" room. We will finish the second reading of all the disagreements, but believe me, especially the Majorists and those who will come to villages that will not vote in favour of such a bill, I take away all the political elements: who is in what faction, where who is who? If we're talking about agriculture today and we're not doing it, then we're just a demagogy. We'll put it to a vote tomorrow and please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u188	Thank you. So, like previous drafts, we're transferring it to the "pre-negotiation" section, and we're going to decide when there's enough MPs in the room. Dear colleagues! We have eight minutes before the end, we have bill 2243a, which we can also talk about. There is a request from the Head of the Budget Committee that we be able to speak quickly. There is only a request to support a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote and support the bill's consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[13:52:58]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to speak with the Ukrainian national deputy Pavel Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I present to you the bill 2243a on preventing the effects of the official sport competitions of corruption. This is a very important bill. Unfortunately, today's so-called "authentic" games continue to be everyday in sports. Often, bribes of athletes, judges, coaches, illegal sports betting, and other manipulations with a view to gaining wrong benefits are to be heard. Corruption inhibits the development of sport, actually bringing it to zero. Regrettably, the fight against corruption throughout the country is not going as fast as it would like. I'm sure we can't waste time, and on the contrary, we have a chance to show a good example of fighting corruption in sports. The law in force to prevent corruption does not cover the problem of combating corruption in the field of sports. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt a separate special law that would provide real mechanisms to combat this phenomenon. The proposed draft law defines the basic principles, the characteristics of subjects and measures, the warning and detection of and responsibility for corruption in the field of sports. The bill introduces new concepts such as "a sportsperson", "persons authorized to hold an official sports competition", "exclusive sports information", "ruled fair play" and so on. The draft law proposes to establish strict administrative and criminal responsibility for corruption in the field of sports. The bill was introduced into a broad public discussion involving prominent European experts, representatives of sports federations, other public organizations, and the media. Sports society fully supports the adoption of this bill. International sports organizations as well as the highest European political institutions require us to solve this problem. In particular, in Resolution 1602 the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stressed the need for mechanisms to reduce the risk of contractual matches, illegal stakes and other forms of corruption in sport. The Assembly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u190	How long does it take? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u191	The Assembly called on the States members of the Council of Europe to accept. its legislative bases should take immediate action to ensure transparency of sporting results, to combat subliminal results, including contractual matches, and to take into account the relevant recommendations of international European organisations. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the adoption of this very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Please invite the head of the committee, Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I support your emotions because Andriy Vasilovich today, and so it has happened that I am also the author of this law, have submitted to the Supreme Council a bill that has not yet been passed in the history of Ukraine. And if we put emphasis on today, really, it's an event, because preventing the impact on the result of the official sports competitions of corruption, all that's involved in corruption in sport is the first in the history of the Ukrainian State to allow us to find ourselves in the ranks of European democratic, actually sporting countries. The committee therefore considered this bill, which was designed to combat corruption in the field of sports. International organizations, the highest European and the world’s political institutions, are required to solve this problem. You know about the scandals that have taken place in the International Football Federation recently. So by studying this experience, studying the experience of European countries, Andri Vasilovich and I prepared this bill. It defines basic principles, precautions, and detection of corruption in sports. We're making repairs. Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences. In addition, we complement the Criminal Code with article 369 with badge 3, which introduces responsibility for the illegal influence of official sports competitions. So, colleagues, please support the committee's decision and adopt this bill on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-07-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, does anyone insist on performing? Then let's make a signal vote on this. So I am voting on the draft Law on Prevention of Effects on the Results of Official Sports Competitions of Corruption Offences (No. 2243a). signal voting. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:58:36]] For 180. The solution. He doesn't have the potential to accept it. Dear colleagues, we have discussed a number of important bills. Tomorrow we will be able to vote on them. I strongly urge everyone to attend the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow. It's 2:00. Our work has come to an end, so I'm announcing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed and tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. we're waiting for everyone in the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
