ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please enter the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:07:36]] 239 national deputies in the hall, we can start our work. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Today we have enough nouns. In good tradition, let us welcome the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Boris Yuriovich Kozer, Alexia Petrovich Prashenko, Irina Volodymyrovna Sisoyenko, and Sergey Mikolayovich Trigubenko. Let's welcome all our nouns. [[Applause]] Happy birthday! Good, success and well-being! Dear colleagues, we are about to begin our session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of "the Hour of Question to the Government." The presentation, as we have determined, is presented by the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Ivaras Abromavichus and the heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Aleksivny Hontareva.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u2	Volodymyr Borisovich, give us a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u3	We have a clear violation of the Rules here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u4	You're breaking the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u5	Please, poo. Victoria Voytzicka, please give me a minute out of the rostrum. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the Blocking of the Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u6	The Interfractional Union of Eurooptimists, along with other parliamentarians, requires a daily government bill of 2273, which addresses the issue of the return of nearly 2 billion dollars to Ukraine's budget. That's the kind of money the country doesn't get from Scrooge Company. [[Applause]] The committee's decision is being systematically blocked. On two occasions, unfortunately, the committee did not hold a meeting, nor did it consider the bill. So we demand that this bill be put back in order of the day. We support the government. Today's the day's work! [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee head doesn't matter who. The important thing is that we actually get the result. And the committee is chaired by Mr. Ivanchuk, and at the request of my colleagues, I'm speaking. And we women don't need any proper gifts on March 8th. Give back the money that belongs to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I stress that it is not necessary to block Parliament but to work on the Committees of the Supreme Council. And there's a corresponding commission that I've written down for the consideration of the profile committee on the subject. As soon as the committee is submitted, it will appear in the daytime order in accordance with the Rules, and the deputies will continue to be appointed. I have determined my position on this subject more than once. I think this law should be adopted. We voted in favour of this law, but no one has the right to violate the procedure. This is a principled question. So please work with the committee. Faction leaders, ensure the presence of your deputies on the committee, consider this. And any conclusion, and we will consider it in accordance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, please release the rostrum. Now we have an hour of questions to the government. I ask you to release the Chamber of Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please have the commission of a profile committee to review this bill and submit it in due course for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I'm addressing the committee head. Dear colleagues, I ask you to unlock the rostrum. We're starting a discussion. Please, I would like to stress once again that the committee of profile should consider the matter today, and I have made appropriate suggestions. Give it up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for the constructive offer. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We've already lost 15 minutes of questions to the government. Thank you for unlocking the rostrum. I've given the commission to the committee, please work with the committee. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. I invite you to the rostrum of the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Avaras Abromavichus, please. Please, Minister Abromavichus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u8	Please, Ivanchuk. One minute literally, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u9	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to give you an answer to a situation that just took place in the walls of Parliament. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, in order to carry out your commission, this bill was put in order for the Committee of Economic Policy to have its day-to-day consideration on Wednesday. In view of the fact that the committee did not attend the committee meeting, there was no quorum, there was no opportunity to consider the bill. A committee meeting was held again yesterday. Today, I again assigned a committee meeting. So, Mr. Head, I don't understand at all what the charges against me are. I gather a committee every day. Please contact the representatives of the various factions, members of the committee, to attend the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u10	Thank you. Just what I just gave you. Please assign the committee secretariat to assemble the committee, all the deputies, and the faction leaders to ensure the presence of the deputies. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, work on the committee. Ivaras Abromavichus, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please, Minister, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, MPs, Your Honor! It has been almost 90 days since our team is in government, and there are first results, many complex issues, but most importantly, we understand where we are going and what to do next. Almost every time I meet, they ask me when it's gonna be okay, when everything's gonna be okay. To that end, the first question must be honestly answered: What is the problem now? It is not a secret that the country's economy is currently in a difficult situation. The reason for this was not only a failed policy of the past government but also a complete lack of reform over the past 25 years. What a situation so far. Real GDP fell by almost 7 per cent in 2014. Industrial production decreased by 10.1 per cent. The export of goods and services decreased by almost 20 per cent. Consumer inflation was 24.9 per cent. At the beginning of the year, the situation of inertia continues to be tense. Negative dynamics are demonstrated without exception in the field of economic activity. The decline in industrial production in January was 21 per cent. Inflation remains excessive, there is strong pressure on the course. The economic policies of the previous authorities were highly unprofessional. Although the economy grew after the 2009 crisis, by 2012, the growth was only 0.2 per cent, and only through the manipulation of statistics. Russia initially led an aggressive trade policy and then moved on to open aggression. The destruction of Nazbank's reserves in previous years has been the main cause of currency instability today. As I have already said, the reason for today's crisis is that there has been no reform in the last 25 years. And now we are faced with a simple choice: now or never; complex but structural reforms or stagnation and serious degradation that can lead to even more critical consequences. A choice for me, and for most in the country, it's obvious. These reforms are not needed by IMF; they are not needed by the World Bank; they are not needed by the European Union. First of all, Ukraine needs them. And here we have a choice as to which Ukraine we want to live. I propose in a young, growing and promising, with the same economy. In fact, we need to re-create the economy, build a completely new economy based on the principle of fair competition, innovation, the global market and finally move away from the planning and administrative model. We have two big challenges: stabilizing the situation is once, doing everything we can to make the economy grow in 2016. That's two. Problem one. To begin to receive assistance from the International Monetary Fund and other financial institutions, thereby restoring the high level of reserves of the Central Bank, stabilizing the course and restoring confidence in the banking system. The banking system must be restored. Only when business and the population return deposits to banks will banks start lending and the economy will start working again. The second challenge is economic recovery and growth in the 16th year. On Wednesday, the Cabinet meeting approved a plan of action for the Government for 2015. This is an extensive document of more than 100 pages, which clearly sets out what we need to do, what time frame and who is responsible. Economic development is responsible for almost half of these activities. After consulting our colleagues, we decided that if we decided on most of these tasks this year, we would have a real chance to live in a completely different country. Our steps as ministries are deregulation. Much has already been said and much has been done, although we are only at the very beginning. The Law on Licensing was passed with the assistance of MPs, and the Law on Deregulation was also adopted. I would like to express my thanks to all those who have participated in this, especially those in Parliament who have been deregulation for many years. This is Mrs. Kugel, Mrs. Prodan, Galasyuk and the others. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a decree, where we have reduced many types of regulatory restrictions, especially with regard to the agricultural route. They removed quarantine certificates and reduced the date of issue of phytosanitary certificates. He called the port himself, asked if it worked. They confirmed that quarantine certificates for grain were no longer available, but unfortunately, forest quarantine certificates remained, through 1,500 bracelets per container. We're gonna fight this, too. Together with the MPs, the second part will be more extensive under deregulation. One and a half days ago, the National Reform Board decided to announce the next full wave of deregulation, the launch of the heliant process. The theme “Government of State Enterprises” is very important. Crazy resistance. But there is already an accomplishment. There is a need to increase efficiency, transparency and, of course, to begin talking about privatization on favourable terms. We have already put in place a new management system and have committed all States to open their financial reporting. So far, these companies are strongly resisting. The cash flows are managed by the director, some by the deputies. We're gonna fight this. Companies have to work for the State, pay dividends to the State. Today, we are finalizing the draft Law on the Reduction of the List of Enterprises Not to Be Privatized. The State must sell the assets it does not need and transfer them to effective owners. It is imperative to note the success of 3G licences in an open and transparent auction where the country has earned 11 billion bracelets. This has been noted on several occasions in meetings with international partners. The President met with the Prime Minister of Italy the day before yesterday, where this was also noted, and it was noted that Italian investors were willing to consider acquiring assets in Ukraine. With regard to the 3G license. It's not just selling and getting money. Indeed, the development of high technologies and broadband is directly related to corruption and is directly linked to economic development, economic competitiveness, standards of living and education. This is confirmed by a world study. There is also some work to be done in the series of purchases. In fact, yesterday, one of the leaders of the activists, who had already made significant progress in electronic purchases, decided to join the Ministry's team as head of the department. In the near future, we will submit a new bill on State purchases to Parliament. With regard to anti-monopoly legislation. As you know, most businessmen who are native, foreign, complain to the Antimonopoly Committee. As a reason, number one is the difficulty of doing business in Ukraine. Together with the Ministry of Economics, we wrote in a memorandum of the International Monetary Fund that we undertake to replace the entire Antimonopoly Committee in the first half of the year, to appoint a new chapter. In the second half of the year, as stipulated in the coalition agreement, the anti-monopoly legislation should be completely amended. Tax reform. We are expanding the tax base despite concerns. Nevertheless, it goes well enough without adding pressure to small and medium-sized businesses. We're pulling the business out of the shadows to expand the tax base, the luxury tax and the income for the more experienced, the closure of the tax holes used by the big business. As you know, this is where we passed the Transfer Price Act. Again, with the help of MPs, they increased the rent on iron ore, as well as the rent on the transport of ammonia, which would significantly raise the income in the budget. The National Reform Board decided to make tax reform as quickly as possible, two days ago. And the working group will begin its work in the coming week. On instructions from the Prime Minister, late last night, we have a vision that we are ready to make tax reform very quickly, very serious, so that the tax system in our country is among the best in Eastern Europe. And I'm sure if this group is headed by our Minister of Finance, we'll get there as soon as possible. There is, of course, an official investigation that is currently under way and will be announced in about a week's time. This shows the desire of the Government and the authorities in general to combat corruption. We know that everything is far from right in the State Fiscal Service. At the Prime Minister's consultations with our European partners, there is also a dialogue to make joint customs with the European Union countries with which we have a border in order to avoid corruption in this sector. We would also like to note our steps to combat corruption in the oil and gas industry. We are already buying more gas from Europe than from Russia, of course, without intermediaries. In raising tariffs, we created a new open and accessible subsidy system that removes all barriers to compensation for the poor. That's what we're all about. 25 billion bracelets. With regard to the fight against corruption, it should also be noted that the Government has adopted a new procedure for conducting the Ukrnafta oil auctions. And as we've seen, there are successes. The auction committee did not allow for the sale of oil at a seriously underpriced price. Despite the difficult situation, but a serious attitude towards reforms and a vision of positive developments in 2016, I would like to point out that the Government is serious about this. Among other things, I would like to reassure everyone about food security. On instructions from the Prime Minister, we carried out a grain stock check at the warehouses and I can state in a responsible manner that we do not have to run to the shops. We have more grain stocks than we have during the same period last year. As far as it is concerned, I would also like to add that the entry of domestic products into new markets will be achieved through the introduction of technical regulations and regulations adopted in the European Union. This will open Ukraine not only to the European market but also to the markets of other countries that recognize European standards. At the same time, we will have the most active dialogue on ensuring access to third-country markets for Ukrainian goods, providing all necessary support to our exporters. There is also the idea of creating an export credit agency with the MPs. And I hope that this agency will work by the end of the year. The Ministry itself is being updated as well. I've said it many times before. This takes, unfortunately, more time than originally expected. But a few days ago, a new state was signed. Two months from now, the Ministry will have 30 per cent less staff, and we will reduce our functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u12	Please do not limit the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u13	At the end of autumn, a further 20 per cent reduction. Thus, our national economic recovery plan is: receiving funds from international institutions to stabilize the current situation so that there are all prerequisites for further growth, systemic reforms in all sectors, investment in Ukraine, maximizing the benefits of the Association with the EU, entering new markets, and increasing exports. I would like once again to thank the deputies, who, at a very short time, passed the many laws that the country needs. I would like to recall that the Government and the Ministry as a whole and I am personally open to dialogue, as many of you know, we have a lot of association with associations, business, and everyone, from industrialists, to retailers, to agrarians, regularly visit the area. In Zaporozhye next week, there are big industrial issues for the Government. Ready to communicate. Therefore, thank you once again for your attention, and I wish to reaffirm that the Government is committed to serious fundamental reforms in the country's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u14	Thank you, Minister. Please head of the National Bank Valeria Gotarev, 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, over the last two months, I've been reporting from this rostrum for the fourth time, so you're not going to hear any new figures, but I'm going to try to explain the logic of the National Bank. The National Bank is usually challenged by the opposite of claims, and I will give you typical examples. Today I have prepared such a brief presentation. First of all, we're being accused of putting a lot of refund on the market, and now we're being told that we're oppressing the banking system because we're not refining the deposits. Second, they say that the National Bank released the currency on the spot, and at the same time they're accusing us of holding an indicative course and not letting the market find balance. The third typical domestic contentious claim: some sigh that temporary administrations are being introduced into banks, while others are calling for reasons why they do not introduce a guarantee fund and pay investors guaranteed amounts. The fourth example. They incriminate that the National Bank does not control the currency market, and they shout that the NBA has imposed such restrictions on the market that it is not possible to work. So I will try to explain. But first of all, on behalf of the National Bank government, I thank you very much for the adoption by Parliament of the Act on the Strengthening of the Control of Banking Operations with Associated Persons and for increasing the responsibility of owners and bank managers for the actions that have led to the insolvency of institutions. [[Applause]] Why is this important? Because the owners and the higher management of the banks have to compensate the damage to the state and the investors. It's a very nice slide. You can see now: in 2014-2015, the guarantee fund was transferred for withdrawal from the market of 44 banks, 11 of which were withdrawn in 2015. In fact, the banking system has lost nearly 200 billion dollars, almost 9 percent of our GDP. Of this amount, only 50 billion dollars should be reimbursed by the State through a fund to guarantee the investments of the Physosibs, almost 10 percent of the income in Ukraine’s budget. On February 25, $18.5 billion was already paid to investors of insolvent banks. If we had this tool with you earlier, this amount would be much smaller, because every shareholder, his management, was going to pull out the assets and write it down on the crisis three times would think about its decision. I'll give you the number of the guarantee fund. Today, the total amount of damage caused by insolvent banks due to the illegal actions of bank shareholders and their officials amounts to over 58 billion dollars. So far, 239 criminal attacks have been opened, totaling nearly 43 billion dollars. The adopted Act on Strengthening Responsibility of Owners and Bank Managers is an additional important factor in their impact. It will greatly strengthen the guarantees of population and business conservation and growth. Clearly, cleaning up the banking sector is a painful and long-term process. Unfortunately, it's intensified by bank deposits. In the past year alone, citizens have taken 126 billion dollars from banks, and since the beginning of this year, this amount has increased by another 18 billion dollars. Even though much of these percentages are the result of panic, we cannot fail to help banks exercise the legitimate right of people to pay them back their savings. Thus, the National Bank is simply obliged to support banks by providing them with refinancing loans to ensure timely settlement and return. We have to understand that refinancing operations are the standard practice of every central bank in the world. But I have repeatedly stressed that, in support of the regulator as the creditor of the last facility, banks can calculate if they are able to pay, i.e. they have only liquidity problems due to the flow of deposits, they have sufficient capital or approved programme to capitalize and they have an acceptable quality mortgage. And all of this is happening under the strict control of the National Bank, the imposition of restrictions on active operations and on the presence of a curator in banks that are tracking the targeted use of the provided stable refinancing. Now we're just giving off deposits of up to 200,000 dollars guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund. The idea of hundreds of billions of bracelets given for my office of uncontrolled refinancing looks nothing different than nonsense. After all, data on the granting of refinancing loans by the National Bank is now more open than ever. We've already opened up all the refinancing data that's on our website, daily, weekly. Each citizen can see not only the amount of credit that has been issued but also the extent to which they have been granted and the extent to which they have been granted. So it might point out again, and you can see this on the slide, that the amount of stable loans in my cell was 10 billion dollars, while the amount of the flow of personal resources at the same time amounted to 93 billion dollars. It's not a comparable amount. Now, the debt of all refinancing loans, once again, is a very nice slide, with all the refinancing loans given to the National Bank in its history today is 110 billion dollars. Not 200, not 300, not 500, not 110. Of the 110 billion dollars (this red and red part of this slide, this is October 2008 to June 2009) 77.7 billion dollars were issued at the time at the office of Prime Minister Timoshenko and the head of the National Bank of Stelmach. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're not back yet. Of the 110 billion dollars, 77.7 was issued from 2008 to 2009. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. I can't show it because it's a negative value, it's minus 1.7 billion dollars, my cell has reduced the amount of the refund. Next slide. There are bracelets on the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm in charge of my office at the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u16	I'm asking the people's deputies not to interfere. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't get in the way! Do not interfere.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u17	77.7.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u18	Go on, Valery Alexyevno. You have time yet, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u19	I repeat. My office as head of the National Bank, i.e. the last 8 months of credit in the banking system provided by the National Bank, has dropped by 1.7 billion dollars. Accordingly, there was no pressure on the monetary and financial markets provided by the bank. Moreover, each of the refinancing bracelets that now appears to be heading exclusively towards the flow of deposits. The National Bank is tightly controlled and every bank that receives a refund is sent to the National Bank curator. As far as the biggest refund is concerned. This is clear that the largest amount was given to the largest bank in the country, which has 26 percent of deposits and current accounts. Since the beginning of 2014, this bank has made up 44 billion dollars, and the debt for the refund is now 23 billion dollars, including 7.2 billion dollars issued for my office. All of this demonstrates that an additional 21 billion dollars have been paid to these banks by investors on their own due to shareholders' contributions and a reduction in the loan portfolio. Now, let's talk about the show. In 2014, the monetary base grew by 8.5 percent, to 336 billion dollars. And let me make a point, 333 billion is a stockpiling in all of Ukraine's history. So when you hear about some, uh, nonsense, some kind of show, well, be smart. 300 now. This is 333 at the end of 2014. Now on this slide you see, our emissions are 326 billion. This means that it is negative that we have reduced it rather than increased it. Clearly, the increase in the monetary base in 2014 at 8.5 could not create monetary pressure on consumer prices and the cost of the bracelet. This money, along with our gold reserves, was essentially aimed at sustaining the banking system from the crisis of payments and accounting in the economy and, among other things, gave the state the opportunity to provide social benefits, military spending, and the purchase of gas for the heating season. As for the 2015 monetary base. Fiscal domination, as was the case in 2014, when the National Bank funded the government and NAC Naftogaz for 175 billion dollars or almost 40 percent of our country's budget, will be gone. Because we've spent a lot of our currency reserves in the last year. Only 8.6 billion were sold to Naftogazu NAC from our currency reserves. The maximum amount released by the NBA in the economy does not exceed 991 billion dollars. This indicator is fully compliant with the parameters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u20	the macroeconomic forecast that they worked with.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u21	I'm asking the deputies to calm down and let the manager speak. Calm down, fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u22	Colleagues, calm down, please. And behave yourself, please. People's deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u23	Look, you don't have to do this, you guys! It's not your call, colleagues! Colleagues, fellow national MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u24	Valeria Alexiyevna, come in. Don't touch me, I said! Oleg Lazko! Baby, what are you doing?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues invited the head of the National Bank. The report did not complete. I don't like it. The report did not complete. They've locked the rostrum! Who gave you the right?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] National deputies, colleagues! Dear fellow national deputies, I ask you to take your seats. No one will tolerate these violations that are taking place today in the Parliamentary Hall. You don't want to work, I'm going to close the session and put a dot on it. Let's start here. That's what we need to think about. We've invited people to speak, we haven't been allowed to speak, we've started to block. But listen, you're holding factions of your own, and you're blocking yourself. But this is the Ukrainian Parliament, this has to be a culture. You've got 30 minutes to ask questions. If you don't like it, you can go to court. But coming here and setting up what you're doing is unacceptable, and I'm stressing it. Be normal, and you will be treated with respect. Please, every fraction per minute. The statement has been completed. Please, Peter Poroshenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, I would now like to explain to you, as a person who worked in the Timoshenko government, and perhaps to the citizens of the political lie that was just depicted on the slides. I remember very clearly the period of the refinancing of the first financial crisis in 2009. And I remember very clearly dozens of criminal cases that have violated the Ministry of Internal Affairs for misuse of the refund. And as a member of Timoshenko's government, there was no more opposition then to the opposition between Prime Minister Timoshenko and President Yushchenko and Stelma, who, without the government, were free to distribute the refund that was coming out of the country. [[Applause]] So, I think the slide needs to be carefully repaired instead of Timoshenko, and even the letters can be easily corrected by Yushchenko, and everything will be fine. [[Applause]] But, colleagues, for the sake of objectivity, position two. The National Bank is indeed a hostage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u26	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u27	Indeed, the National Bank today is a hostage of many factors that do not depend solely on the National Bank. That's 22 percent of the industry that's left in the occupation. That's 150 billion off deposits. That's 110 billion that the banks didn't return after the refinancing. It's 175 billion issued to the government for social needs, actually from a printing press. So, from my point of view, today we had to listen to the information. And after receiving the IMF tranche, which will lead to the final stabilisation of Ukrainian finances, make organizational decisions on the government's economic bloc and the National Bank. Thank you. Today, I ask you not to raise the rate of hysteria in the country, because millions and millions of people depend on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u28	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, People's Front. From the People's Front of the Yuri Timoshenko faction? Please, Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Perhaps many of you do not know what it is to be a gentleman. I'll remind you that even in this room there are people who, on March 8th, are celebrating and they recognize it. He who does not confess is his right, do not celebrate, do not confess. So, just before you there was a woman and you, gentlemen of the men, how embarrassing you are! As much as you didn’t like what she said, she didn’t like the name and didn’t like what she said. [[Applause]] Well, what you're doing, don't be ashamed, it's not a parliamentarian's behavior! That's not how women are treated, and more so in Parliament! Once again, be ashamed of your conduct, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you, People's Deputies, for your position. Then we have Oleg Lazko, the Radical Party. Please come to the rostrum. Then it's Fatherland. Then it's Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In fact, there was not a woman standing in front of us, but there was a man in front of us who had robbed millions of Ukrainian citizens! [[B in m in s a l in]] What a policy that has led to the poverty of Ukrainian people! What an extermination of the Ukrainian economy! Thieves don't have sex. Thieves are innocent people. They have to be responsible for their actions. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction of the Radical Party therefore insists on the resignation of the head of the National Bank of Honduras, whose policies have led to the impoverishment of Ukrainian citizens, the destruction of Ukrainian business, and the discrediting of the Ukrainian state. And we demand that the Head of the Supreme Council, as promised, be brought to the fore for a ruling on the release of the High Council. Hontareva is a whore who drinks blood from the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u32	Did I realize it was a disgrace to the speaker? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down and you will receive the word, Lord People's Deputy, and you will speak. This is the Ukrainian Parliament, and they all have. [[B in m in s a l in]] You want to insult me from the rostrum. You want to insult the rostrum, please write it in the Rules, in the law that you sign under it, and take offense. People who look at us are a thousand times smarter than some speakers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. You can talk about things, you can talk professionally, but you can't get offended, you can't go personal, especially when it comes to women.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u33	Unfortunately, the professional discussion of the currency market has ended with respect to the financial situation. Emotions began. I would also like to put some dots in this room because there are enough people in this room who remember very well how the "Fatherland" faction, like the faction "Our Ukraine," which was supposed to represent Yushchenka at the time, and the other factions voted three times for the removal of Stelmacha, who led the situation in the country with President Yushchenko to the total collapse of the banking system. Those funds that were earmarked for refinancing were the funds that triggered artificial inflation. And that's why I think everyone knows today that we can all go to Cuba, as if to Timoshenko, but I think it's clear to everyone that, Mrs. Gottarev, we need to have a professional conversation here about why this situation is in the currency market.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u34	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u35	And you have to take personal responsibility for what's going on. Because you can look, like Azarov, for "breeders," except you're not there looking. You have all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, the Opposition Block. Mr. Matvienkov, please, the national deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u37	57th District, Mariupol, Matvientkov, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! I think those in this room understand very well, and not the first year, I mean, the interruption understands that the situation in Ukrian is really critical. And we all have very serious caution, especially after the government has released projections in the near future, where we see 11 per cent of the gross domestic product, 42 per cent of the inflation. We understand that the basic sectors of the economy are virtually out of work and are in a critical position to date. We are fully aware that the situation has changed dramatically and disastrously since the adoption of laws at the request of the Inter-Tunaryold Monetary Fund, and our people have been placed on a massive footing when we have to pay two, three times the increased utility payments, gas, water, electricity. And we understand too well that in order to get out of this situation, we need to look for an economically healthy way out, not to waste the show here in this room. Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed such populist methods as have been taking place recently. And we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u38	Ten seconds, finish, for the sake of truth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u39	We are committed to constructive, positive work, and we are very concerned about the economic situation in that country today. Therefore, we propose to put an end to populism and to the economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Pisarenko National Deputy, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that today's questions to the head of the National Bank have come to an end in this way. In fact, there were many questions that we wanted to answer. Because when the head of the National Bank took office at 9.5.5 in June of the past, today, when we're at almost 30 and the same rate, there's no answer for citizens or for businesses, how they can continue to exist. And I think that today's speculation about who, how and how he loves or dislikes the person who heads the National Bank doesn't matter because people want to know what course they're going to live with. Because tariffs that are about to strike people will strike all the families of the country. So we ask for the vote of Decree 1055 on the release of the head of the National Bank -- once and for all to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u42	Please "self-help", Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u43	Colleagues, the Self-Help faction agrees that the National Bank should be headed by a person who has confidence in the people who have confidence in investors who have confidence in the economy. And a big request to the President of Ukraine to understand it the same way. On the other hand, let's be honest: building trust in national currency is our shared task. I screamed, "Damn!"the more attacks on the head of the National Bank, the more we won't help. Let's start the economy by lowering taxes, the only social contribution. It's in our hands. Let us cleanse the courts by expelling and arresting judges who have been corrupt for years. We've already started this, let's continue with the Attorney General's help. And three: let's cut the state. The less government consumption there will be, the faster private business will grow. And how it's going to grow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u44	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u45	Therefore, a big request: Let us not scream here, but work together that the bracelet has begun to recover.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u46	Very constructive. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that "the hour of questions to the government" and to the head of the National Bank is over. Thanks to the head of the National Bank. Thank you, Valeria Alexyevna. Thank you, Government. [[B in m in s a l in]] You read the Rules, look, there's 10 to 11. Block the rostrum. This is the most important thing that should guide us. This is the Rules. Thank you. Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] From 11 to 11.30, we have a statement of parliamentary inquiries. Please give me 30 minutes to call the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the parliamentary inquiry. Now there's a request from the people's deputies. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the Road Service in the Zitomir region of a light-year-old object in the village of Singura in the Zitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return to the community of the village of Pritiv Zhitomir district of the Zitomir region of land under public pasture. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take action to rebuild the building of the Lviv National Academy of Ukrainian Dramatic Theatre Maria Zankovetskie. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent application of the environmental coefficient for the medical needs of the population of the Dnipropetrov region. Victoria Vojtsicka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the projected balance of arrival and distribution of natural gas in Ukraine for 2015 and on the increase in prices for natural gas for the population and enterprises of TKE. Grigory Wrath to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the conformity of the authorized person to the Fund with qualified requirements. Alexander Kirsch to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the employees of the Work.ua portal and the employees of the company ALLO. Alexander Chernenka, acting as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for violations of public procurement by the Directorate of Housing and Utilities, Executive Committee of the Equality City Council. Dmitry Linka to the executive responsibility of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to control food prices and commodities. Jury Chizmar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the release of persons suspected of committing a terrorist act in Kharkiv's Stana pub as part of an exchange of prisoners of war. Petra Vanata and Alexander Romanovski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on bridge crossings across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye. Alexander Dubinin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the re-examination of the possible production of narcotic drugs in Dniprodjynsk, with the involvement of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine from another region of Ukraine. Tetjana Crnoval to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the return of the National Atomic Energy Saving Company Energoatom funds illegally held in the accounts of the Private Stock Exchange Company Avant Bank. Tetjana Crnoval to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the GazUkrainian Child Company of the Naftogaz Ukrainian National Shareholder Company for the benefit of companies that are part of the Oschem Dmitr Firtash structure. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction and operation of the hospital complex of the Ochtyr Central District Hospital. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a rehabilitation centre for children with disabilities in the city of Lebedin Sumska. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, Lviv City Head, Acting Director-General of the Ukrainian State Post Office of Ukraine on the application of the measures taken to implement the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To mark the 150th anniversary of the Metropolitan Police of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of Andreya Šeptick". John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for helping end-prostitution citizen Natalie Golyak. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to continue financing the restoration of repairs and construction works on the road to the general use of local value. Olga Bogopolitan to the minister of health of Ukraine for a calendar plan for the reform of the health system. Olga Bogolitz to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the necessary measures for the mandatory medical examination of demobilized persons from the ATO area. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the financing of children's sports schools. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Defence Minister, for the provision of health care facilities that receive injuries from the ATO zone, an antigangrenost orphan. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as head of the right-wing district office in Kiev, Director-General of the Kiivenergo Public Shareholders' Society for the protection of the interests of the people of the right-wing district of Kiev in the absence of hot water supply in the residential buildings on Scholm-Aleichem Street for four months. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the government, the Director General of the Public Shareholders Society, Kyivvodokal Share Company, to provide information on the cost-effective conduct of periodic trust in water measurement equipment and the use of response measures to protect the interests of the people of Kiev. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of legislation in the calculation and distribution of housing during the relocation of residents of the electrician group, 31 (Public Shareholders Association of Leninska Kuzna). Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the elimination of the Phtyioortopedic Department of the Lviv District Hospital of War Disability and the repressive name Yuri Lipa in the town of Vinniki Lvivsk. Irina Friz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the verification of the situation surrounding attempts to transfer to the airport of Berdjansk to a commercial institution. Victor Krivenk to the prosecutor of Kiev for systematic non-compliance with the court-indicator. Victor Krivenk is head of the Ukrainian State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate for systematic refusal by the Ukrainian State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate to grant permission to carry out construction work. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prosecutorial response to crimes committed by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine during the events of Maidan and the conduct of appropriate procedural actions. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the provision of drinking water for the population of the village of Tomaszgorod in the region of Rokitni. Vitalia Kuril to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the openness, legality and conflict of interest in the conduct of tender procedures by the Road Service in the Luhansk Region, using budgetary resources allocated to maintain and repair public and local roads in the Luhansk region. Olega Dmitrenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-application of measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the provision of constitutional rights for citizens in the payment of salaries for employees of budget institutions in the city of Pritika Chernigiv region. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recovery and rest of children in 2015. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of post office No.12 in the town of Ninja Chernigiv district. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer of movable and immovable property from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the municipal property of the territorial community of a town-type town called City of Žitomir district. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance by the Ministry of Defence with the State Procurement Procedure for the provision of sleeping bags. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the collection of subsidies for low-income population groups living in one - story apartment buildings. Jaroslava Dubnević to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for regular passenger transport by Lvivščina. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the stability of the oil market and the regulation of fuel prices. Groups of National Deputies (Kisse, Barbinenka, Urbanski) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for a subsidy from the State budget of Ukraine for 2015 for the capital and medium-sized repair of roads in the Odessa region. Vladimir Husak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, regarding the provision of information on the targeted use of tariffs for the transport of goods by rail. Sergia Labazuka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the integration of garden societies (co-operatives) into local communities. Sergia Labazuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the decentralization of local self-government in Ukraine. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the seizure of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine into the control of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the investigation into the resonant criminal conduct brought to the GDR by No.42013080390000028 in connection with the looting of the land of the Razum forest and the use of measures to prevent the responsibility of the main figures of this criminal conduct close to the organized criminal group Anishim. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the verification of the facts of the investigation of the unlawful activities of the Deputy Director of the Department of Management of Lvivtransgaz Motorways, Andrija Kuczkowski, and on the verification of the inaction of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Andrija Shinkovič to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of the residents of the town of Kirovograd on the University Avenue, 21. Andrija Shinkovič to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of residents of the hostel in Kirovograd on the street of Heroiov Stalingrad, 13. Alexia Lensky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the speedy resolution of the issue of the free transfer of arms and other military property, which was removed in 2011 at the Krakovec Pass, from the Lviv Customs Ministry of Revenue to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the purposes of ATO, the use of appropriate response measures. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the use of urgent response measures to carry out the prosecutor's review and to bring to Ukraine's established legislation the responsibility of those responsible for illegal equipment and the purposeless use of the funds of the State budget of Ukraine during the extension of contracts for 2014 and in part 2015 for the feeding of military personnel to firms that entered the military food market during the criminal regime of Yanuković and abused their monopoly position by artificially increasing prices. Andrija Žurzija to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, for the inclusion of the income tax of individuals in the corresponding budgets and the creation of a single account system. Ivan Baloga and Vasil Petyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the existing state of the highways of general use of the Zakarpat region. Alexia Rybkin to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services to provide explanations and justifications for reducing green tariffs for renewable energy objects. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of shareholders of the Shareholders Association "Natalka and Peter", the raiding of his property, the illegal imposition of arrests and the sale of non-residential premises for the promotion of employees of the State Executive Service of the Poltava City Administration. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the fraud of citizens – clients of the Pat KGB "PrivacyBank" by seizing them with funds on card accounts, using electronic payment systems. Mr. Timchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of criminal cases against the ex-Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine to the Republic of Belarus, Michael Ježel. Mr. Timchuk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the release of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine to Belarus, Michael Ježel. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the unsatisfying condition of the roadways of the Volodymyrecki region of the Plain region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of public procurement of medical supplies in 2015. Anatoly of Denisenka to the minister of youth and sports of Ukraine to improve the employment situation of young people and to provide first jobs. Anatoly of Denisenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and interests of consumers of banking services in connection with the undervaluation of the national currency. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No.74 from 02 March 2015 on the part of cancelling the heating period until 30 April. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to address the situation of pensions to former employees of the fire service, participants in the elimination of an accident in CHAES in the Poltav region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the inclusion of the capital project in the list of objects to which a subsidy from the State budget will be allocated in 2015 for the implementation of investment programmes and projects from the State Regional Development Fund. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the need to restore the payment of a special budget grant to individuals for the maintenance and preservation of young cattle. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the division of two lines of the unfinished surgical corps of the Central City Hospital in the city of Korosten, Žitomir district. Hanni Hopko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for real action from Ukraine's integration into the European Energy Union, the need for proper inter-agency coordination and the immediate construction of gas metering stations on the north-eastern borders of Ukraine, and the provision of reasonable calculations on the cost of construction of such stations. Gregory of Times to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the inclusion in the list of investment programmes (projects) of the Regional Development Fund of the construction of the new building of the Ridkowska ZAI-II State Building in the region of Chernobyl. Gregory of Times to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the inclusion in the list of investment programmes (projects) of the Regional Development Fund for unfinished construction: “The construction of the School of Public Education in the village of Jordanesti of the Głboczyk Region” and “The construction of the teaching corps of the Ternavian School of Education in the Herzewiska region”. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, for satisfying the demands of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical community and preventing the threat of Ukrainian national security due to artificially created by Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for meeting the demands of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical community and preventing the threat of the destruction of the Ukrainian pharmaceutical industry due to the blocking of the Euro-Integration Measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Alexander Vilkula to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the raiding of the post of city chief Dnipropetrovska through the pressure of right sector fighters on Dnipropetrovsk City Council deputies and the kidnapping and maintenance of the Director of the Department of Corporate Rights and Legal Security of the Dnipropetrov City Council of Alexander Velick. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the government's obligation to pay, starting in November 2014, all pensions and social assistance to civilians in the ATO zone in accordance with the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of 11 February 2015 and the suspension of this decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in appeal. Sergey Rudika to the Ukrainian Minister of Health to provide for the needs of the patients in the Cherka region for hemodialysis. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the termination of agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation concerning the stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Crimea. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the provision of information on the implementation of Presidential Decree No. 835/2014 on urgent measures to provide additional social guarantees to individual categories of citizens, in part of the decision on the transfer to education at the expense of the State Budget of children involved in an anti-terror operation. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for the Prevention of the Illegal Activities of the Public Association of Kyivoblanergo in the Electricalization of Sunična Street, the village of Burezovka, the Makarov region, the Kyiv region. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the bridge across the Horol River in the city of Mirgorod Poltava. Taras Batenka to the head of the Lviv district management of the public shareholders association "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine" for the preservation of a single banking institution in the village of the Premyslny region of Lviv Region, department No. 10013/06 of the Stock Exchange Company "Savedink", which ensures the viability of the villages of Bachów and Dussanes of the Premyslán region and allows the elderly to pay for communal services and to receive pensions and social benefits. Tarasa Batenka to the director of a limited-liability society called Energy-New Division to allow residents of the city of New Division to disconnect their apartments from central heating networks and to set up an individual unit that will allow for the saving of significant costs both for consumers from municipal services and for the state to compensate for subsidies. Alexander Xenjuk to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the acceleration of the purchase of tuberculosis vaccines Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of investigating the abuse of power or official office by Gregory Kaletnik and other officials of the Winnick National Agrarian University. Irina Suslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of imports of goods into temporarily occupied territories, tax evasion and non-payment to employees. Jury Derevyanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of criminal offences during the maintenance and operation of the author's "Cooker" in the village of Kotovka in the region of Odessa. Jurya Derevjanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on ensuring compliance with anti-corruption legislation at the State-owned liquor and liquor industry of Ukrcspirt. Sergio Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activity of Ukrainian judges in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Eduard Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take effective action to address the Odessa District Committee on Education and Science of Ukraine on the non-admission of spending for 2015-2016 on the education sector, the reduction of the number of pedagogical workers, the need to increase expenditure on education subsidies with national local budgets, the increase in minimum wage and the tariff level of the Single Tariff Network. Edouard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for an objective and impartial review of the collective appeal of the Federation of Odessa District Trade Unions and the Odessa Regional Organisation of Professional Health Workers of Ukraine regarding the medical complex The State Enterprise "Lermontovsky Clinical Sanatorium" of the private shareholders association "Ukrprozodzdovnica". Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Roads Service in the Lviv region regarding the state of the road’s national importance. Jurija Timoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the construction site, a residential building with built-in public spaces and Alexanderit parking units on Skrumelak Street, 15-A in Colomia, Johno-Frankov district, in the CMM project to grant permission to the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate in Ivano-Frankiv district to carry out a verification of the violation of the terms of the purchase contract. The Gennady of Tkauk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the inaction of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office in the Winnitsk Region, and on the responsibility of all those involved in the violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen during the protests in the Winnitsk region in support of participants in the large-scale protest, the "dignity revolution", from 21 November 2013 to February 2014. Alons Schkrum to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Head of the State Investment Agency and National Project Management of Ukraine, Director of the Treasury Department of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the introduction into the National Budget of Ukraine of funds for the financing of the decommissioned Agency and the delay in its mandatory liquidation. Alons Skrum to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ukraine’s first Deputy Attorney General for the introduction of funding for the liquidation of Ukraine’s state budget in 2015. Jury Lewchenk is acting as head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and municipal services to review the decisions of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services to increase public utility tariffs and to take steps to ensure transparent formation of public and independent experts. Jury Lewchenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the inadmissibility of reducing the special composition of the Ukrainian Navy. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of financing of radio channels "Amen" and "Culture". Ruslan Lukianczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the threat of life and health to the inhabitants of the village of Poppolna (Zitomir Region), as a result of the preservation of mineral goods by Agroseif and the inability of the authorities to remove this threat. The MP's request has been terminated. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the conference room to continue their consideration of matters of order. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our consideration of matters of the order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already invited you. There was, there was, I told you. In this regard, please take your job and pay attention. I invite once again all the national deputies to the Hall to continue their consideration of matters of the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a number of announcements. I'm reporting on the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call of the "Resurrection" group, which included 22 Ukrainian national deputies. The head of the "Rebirth" group was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Homutinnik Vitali Yuriovich, Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Pisarenko Valerija Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u48	Dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday we included you in the agenda of the day (registration number 2260) – the draft Decision on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the violation of human rights and freedoms in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Faction leaders, invite the national MPs to the Parliament Hall. Dear fellow national MPs! I got a statement from the author of the ruling, the 1317-P draft of Michael Papiev. The statement that he is asking to postpone the consideration of the draft decree since he is not present at the parliamentary session today. I mean, there's no reporter. According to this statement and article 30 of the Rules, I have a question to put forward. We're dealing with this question. There is no reporter, that is, there is no one to report this decision. There is no author. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, you are now under draft Decree 2260. Dear colleagues, dear fellow national MPs, please let's conduct, I see no votes, no deputies in the hall. Dear fellow national MPs, let's make a signal vote, please. Please have a signal vote, Your Honor. [[Signaling Voting]] Come on, fellow officers, one more alert. [[Signaling Voting]] Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to go to, we're going to, we're going to go to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to go to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, let's move on, the hour of the "Victory" shows, sign up for the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u49	Let's move on to the national MPs. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Ishchenka Valery Alexanderovich. The word passed on to Dubnevich. Please, National Deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Jaroslav Dubnevich, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. I have to pay attention to the government, especially its head, to the situation of oil prices at oil stations. The few days that have passed since the dollar’s exchange for the interbank’s exchange of less than 30 dollars testify to the continued conspiracy of operators in this fragmented market. This ordinary widespread harassment throughout the country has not yet been the subject of the reaction of the government and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Why Persecution? Because not all oil traders have bought dollar mass in the last two weeks, and of course they have had reserves of income in previous periods. Dear government officials, you know that it is impossible to leave the village today either to a child or to an old man. In rural areas, the carriers nearly three times reduced their flights. Before long, the entire food and necessities liner, including Ukrainian production, is expanding. Simply observing a situation where a letter of gasoline or diesel exceeds the cost of one dollar can really cause a collapse of all small and medium - size business. We demand the government to understand the possible catastrophic consequences of the further uncontrolled oil - products situation. To convene special meetings with representatives: the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Inspectorate of Consumer Rights, the Ministry of Justice, the Henprocuratories, and operators of the retail oil market, and the time of urgent action. Because tomorrow might be too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u51	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u52	Dear Ukrainian people! Ukrainian Parliament! At a time when the nation is at war with the invader, the issue of law enforcement reform is extremely important. Regrettably, there is a situation where the question is stopped or even sabotaged. There are examples. Tonight, a member of our Radical Party, my assistant, Jaroslav Godunka, was stopped at a roadblock on his return from the ATO area where he was delivering humanitarian aid. Undressed, not known for what they were looking for, not found, but abused. Such incidents are unique. Similarly, the atrocities that take place in Kharkiv over the prisoners are not unique. There are reports of beatings to the death of prisoners. All of this is done at a time when the enemy is blowing up the situation and trying to create the Kharkiv People’s Republic. I therefore appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine and demand that the prison service be checked for human rights, for the rights of prisoners. I'm going to the Attorney General's office to check out the activities of the Berkut Kharkiv. Because it is known that in the terrorist act in Kharkiv, one of the former employees of Berkutu, whose godparents, the Swats, are now working in the same "Berkuts". We ourselves are essentially able to support an armed organization of people whose relatives are opposed to Ukrainian statehood. And finally, the Kharkiv City Council, the Kharkiv District Council, which did not recognize Russia as an aggressor in relation to Ukraine, should be disbanded. And today the Radical Party has registered an appropriate ruling in Parliament. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Ukrainian heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u54	Respectable citizens! I would like to look today at the activity or inaction of the Ukrainian authorities in protecting the rights of the child, and in fact the destruction of the child’s protection system and the inability to respond quickly to the challenges caused by war. Yes, nearly 1 million children lived in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas for the start of the antiterrorist operation. Almost half of Donbas’s children live in the ATO area in areas beyond Ukrainian control. Two thirds of the children evacuated from Donbas are not registered by internally displaced persons and are not supported by the State. Experts in volunteer organizations estimate that more than 500,000 children have been displaced and that only about 150,000 children have been recognized by the State. Thus, over 300,000 displaced children are not entitled to protection, for material support from the State. Children are not registered as displaced persons because of the artificial restrictions of the Ministry of Social Policy, for they are not recognized as legal representatives of grandparents, grandparents, stepmothers, other family members with whom children have been evacuated. Social authorities, in violation of the Family Code for the Rights of Grandma, Grandparent, educator, require special notary assignments from parents. He sent a letter to the Prime Minister demanding that the concept of "legal representative of the child" be brought into line with the requirements of the Family Code for the implementation of the rights of the child. In 2015, the state budget tripled its funding to residential facilities and reduced the support of families with children. The state is artificially creating conditions for the development of a web-based facility that contradicts the choice of Ukraine. At the same time, Ukraine is borrowing 300 million World Bank loans to reorganize the Internet. We are the only country in Europe that is taking credit for reforming this system, not irreversible aid, but the main processes in the area of childhood are being distorted. Statistics on the protection of children’s rights are unreliable or falsified. So government statistics claim that in the context of undeclared war, the number of orphans, children deprived of parental care, is declining. In 2014, many children lost parental care in Donetsk and Lugansk. At the same time, the exact figure is unknown. Local authorities today do not receive important answers from the government regarding the protection of children’s rights. In fact, these questions were ignored in the Ukrainian Law on Internally Moved Persons. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u55	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u56	And also in the relevant Military and Civil Administrations Act, where there is no defined body of care and care. To this day the government has not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u57	Ten seconds. Please, Yuri, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u58	To date, the government has not developed a government program to implement the Law on Displaced Persons. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u59	National MP Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I was eager to tell you, as the people say, about the criminal activity of the government. But I think we should start talking about the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think that if we continue to work in the political theater mode, I would say a cheap political theater, which means we have to either finish our career here, I think, responsible politicians, or turn this cheap political theater into the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's start with the organization of work. I don't remember, friends, any meetings that we'd start at 10 o'clock. I don’t remember any session that we would start on time after the break. I don’t remember any meetings where we would exhaust our schedule. The second position is legislative planning. It's a mystery how we plan to consider drafts. Well, there's a clear system that's worked its entire life in Parliament and how we agreed on the Conciliation Council. Bills are formed by the Conciliation Council. And those bills that weren't able to be considered Tuesday are passed on to the next day. I don't know if this is where the money goes through the bill or the lobbyist interests go for the bill, but there's no strategy or logic in the legislation. My environmental bills, some of them in the fight against poaching, the laws to keep the reserves from paying land taxes, which is absurd by definition, are passed on ten times from day to day, and we don't come to them. The third position is on personnel issues. Friends, but we're all political impostors here, waiting for the President and the Prime Minister to tell us to appoint someone. The Palace of Account is not assigned. The Antimonopoly Committee is not appointed. The State Property Fund is not assigned. [[Applause]] What, there's no dignity for people who can't knock their fists on the table and say that maybe they've run out of premier's school friends and university friends, maybe they've run out of business colleagues? Ukrainian. The Georgian diaspora was definitely exhausted. [[Applause]] Let's find professional people and form Ukrainian power, and Parliament will control it! So, guys, I'm not talking about unique things anymore. Yesterday I read a unique decision, nameless. It's entered without a name. This decision, paragraph 4, introduces an imperative mandate. I understand there are complications. I understand there are political carcases. But, friends, well, to get the party leaders to rule out and disenfranchise the 21st century -- well, that's absurd. If a man took it, I agree that he should not go to another faction. But the decision to take away the mandate -- well, it's an absolute misunderstanding. So, friends, once again, we want to work, we create the Ukrainian Parliament and we are proud to be members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u61	Thank you. National MP, Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u62	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian community, distinguished deputies who are still in this Hall! My speech will begin with the first one. Everyone here is very protective of the village, but today the village suffers from 2 bracelets of milk. This is at the request of those who have been asking for this price for the past few months. So I want to assure you from this rostrum that two bills, one of our factions Anatolia Evlakhov and Golovka, are already registered, so this question will be removed. And I'm asking you to get it into the agenda as soon as possible. It's a different subject. The third time I'm speaking again on biometric passports. The European Integration Committee raises this issue every time, and there have been discussions on the committee, but we still have another problem and panic, again, those people who have already received these biometric passports today. During the days of one of the channels, journalists published the results, an investigation that revealed that the validity of the certificate of electronic signature of the biometric passport ended on April 2. That means that. Creating a new biometric passport certificate will not perform any of its functions. It's impossible to verify the electronic signature of the chip's contents, it's only going to have a non-electronic level of protection. That's why we're addressing, first of all, the passport manufacturer, the Ukrainian Polygraph combine, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which governs this issue by asking us to clarify the situation and remove the tension in society. We also consider it necessary to publish information about the new value of document forms. The latest report from the team indicates that today the price, 261, is no longer relevant because of the increase in the cost of producing biometric passports, resulting in an increase in the cost of producing biometric passports. It is very important to inform society today. We're talking about openness, we're talking about the possibility of talking about these problems. Even if it is, we need to talk about it, because then it comes out to the MPs, and every time we have to stand up. Thus, we can undermine trust in the State itself, its existence, and the issuance of such important documents. So today, this tension is still on the mouth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u63	Thank you. National MP Andrey Shipko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u64	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35 constituency, Nicopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, dear voters! There must be a disaster so that the government can act. Why is it now acceptable to wait until disaster arises and then carefully eliminate its consequences? It's been like a year since this Kabmin came to my parliamentary address on the emergency situation at Dam 8 of the Kakhov watershed, and I only get formal receipts. So the Minn Nature doesn't have the money, so the Kravtodor wants it, but it can't repair it, so the Kabmin didn't give the commission. During this time, Dam 8 became a real disaster in the Dnipropetrov region. It leads through the N23 national road, which is still strategically important to the state, it's a green corridor between the ATO zone and central Ukraine. At the same time, 10,000 cars load a dam. In view of the lack of funding from the state budget, and I am saving this road for the people, which is the shortest route, I emphasize, from the east to the central part of Ukraine. In the fall of 2014, at my initiative and along with the Nicolaus Ferrospile Plant, a pit repair was carried out. And this allowed the lady to winter again. But this repair cannot be effective, for the amount of cargo transport is destroying it every day. Today, the road painting on the dam is covered with huge holes. And this can cause a hydrodynamic blow and a breakthrough, and millions of cubes of water wash everything in their path. A hydrodynamic accident will cause an ecological disaster in Donbas, and thousands of people will not even be able to evacuate. Without an urgent capital repair of the national highway, which is the ridge of Dam 8, the length of which is only 3.8 kilometers — the tragedy is inevitable. The government’s inaction today will be very expensive tomorrow. The adoption of only one decree by the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer the highway to the balance sheet of the Kravutodora and its urgent repairs will save not only the region from disaster but also the lives of people moving in the green corridor from the ATO zone. Please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yatsenuk. And there's more. I want to address our distinguished, dear women. I want to welcome all women, thank you sincerely for your friendship, for your love, for giving to every man. May there be peace, happiness in your soul, always a spring mood, joy in your eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u65	Dear people's deputies, we're in a conflict. On the one hand, at Oleg Valeriovich's suggestion, I wanted to offer you a job without interruption. On the other hand, the Head of the Supreme Council at 12 o'clock invites all women — national deputies — to welcome them on March 8th. [[B in m in s a l in]] I suggest we take a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be back! In accordance with the Rules, I have to call a recess. And if the Chief of the Supreme Council invites me, I can't keep people in the room right now. That's why I'm announcing. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay, we're not finishing this morning session, we're just taking a break at the morning session and we're back here at 12. 30. [[B in m in s a l in]] At 12:30 p.m., we're back here and we're going to be looking at 13:15, and we're going to stay. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think whoever's interested will come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I can propose in such a way that all women can go to the Head at the invitation of the Head. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we can keep working then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Then we continue our work. But once again I tell you: Women are national deputies, the Head of the Supreme Council invites you (to which room?) To the office to welcome you to the feast. Excuse me, third floor, conference room. Please. And we keep working. National MP Volodymyr Gusak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u66	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I would like to draw attention to an event that took place on February 1, which is very important to people's lives. Since February 1, Ukraine has raised its tariffs for all freight shipments by 30 percent. And those who think that freight tariffs don't apply to people are wrong. They do! Because rail transport is at the cost of all goods and services, and people have already seen this price rise and the price rise for people, and they will see even more. And I remind you, maybe someone forgot that this year's budget does not provide for any increase in wages and pensions until December 1, 2015. The question is, "How do people survive when prices go up all the time?".. One more. We've analyzed the groundwork that Ukrzalznica and the Ministry of Infrastructure are always giving as a justification for the increase in tariffs. They keep saying that you have to buy new cars and new locomotives. And that there's an ever-increasing wear and tear. And what's even more interesting is that each year this increase in tariffs is happening, prices are rising, and each year there's an increase in turnover. By 2015, for example, the heat consumption had reached 100 percent. As they move, it's not clear. So we asked Ukrzalznica and the Ministry of Infrastructure how many new cars and locomotives have been purchased since 2008? Most importantly, how many new cars, electric cars, freight cars and passenger cars will be purchased this year at the expense of this increase in tariffs? And we very much hope that, first of all, there will be assigned any guidance from the Crucifixion. And that when this is a guide, hopefully not when, and if this guide comes for a new increase in tariffs, our transport will not be 200 percent. And it's going to be a load and a load of people. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank everyone for their attention and welcome the women with the holiday, especially Mrs. Oksana, who allowed me to take the floor without declaring a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u67	Thank you. National Deputy Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u68	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! On the other hand, I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council on the strange situation surrounding Bill No. 1159, which is proposed to transfer land outside the population to municipal property. Yesterday under the Supreme Council were representatives of local governments, there were farmers who demanded an immediate review of the bill and other vital ones for the village, for local self - government. But somehow these bills, which are extremely important, have not been considered. If we're talking about strong councils, really self-government, then Bill No. 1159, it's probably a key bill. It was filed with me, along with my colleague Valérie Lunchenko, in December of last year. Its authors now include 12 national deputies from five MP factions and groups. Every day, we are approached by other colleagues who are trying to join the copyright team. And it's not random. The issues raised in the bill are extremely relevant and important. The land of the sixth part of the territory of Ukraine cannot be placed under one executive authority, but the country’s councils can walk with their hands stretched out. Everyone understands that the bill is needed, and it will be voted on. But somehow his consideration of the Supreme Council is constantly moving. I understand why. Because its acceptance will destroy a corrupt vertical that generates a lot of revenue for officials. Land authorities keep reporting on the vast amount of land prepared for auctions. But it's all a bit of a joke. Instead of auctions, thousands of hectares of land are ploughed down through the well - founded persons, as if to create a farm and a private farm. And what's scary is that these lands are leased for 25-30-50 years and at a minimum wage. The land is passed on, not to local farmers, but to people whom no one in the village knows or has never seen. At the same time, our bill is actively trying to discredit. The press publishes commissioned articles on the corruption of drafts, and it registers virtually alternative bills. In particular, members of the agrarian committee are actively campaigning to sign a bill drafted by the State Agency that has been drafted. The land seems to be passed on to local councils, but it is not owned. And to manage these lands the councils have some agreement with the State. Such a scheme allows us to imitate reforms while at the same time guarding corruption flows. And, most importantly, after a while, you can get these lands back. Such things must be stopped. If we are talking about decentralization, reforms must be real. They're making us all tired. And in order to withdraw from the drafters the charges of corruption, I would like to report that we have recently registered Bill No. 2279, which prohibits the lease of state utility land without auctions. Finally, his acceptance should make the earth’s administration fair and transparent. That is why I call once again for the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u69	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u70	I call on the leadership of the Supreme Council to put this bill into the session hall on March 17th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u71	Thank you very much. National MP Andriy Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u72	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Unum castigabis, centum emenodis - you will punish one hundred. If we are honest with ourselves, we will not be able to quickly change the radical system, through corrupt judiciary, prosecutorial, law enforcement. At the same time, those suspected of particularly serious crimes against their State and nation must be punished and punished severely so that others are incorruptible. And I'd like to tell you, dear colleagues, about a terrible disgrace, which is equal to inviting Yanukovic back to Ukraine to serve as president's advisor. More than a month ago, former security officials from Totsky and Ganjo were called in for a search because of suspected treason and because of the Maydan massacre in Dnipropetrovsk. It's quite clear that the security officers who started Midan, who work for the enemy, are FSB employees, not the Ukrainian Security Service. At the same time, one of the closest handicrafts of the Ganges, one of Alexander Klimchuk, was not even released. What's more, it's a terrible disgrace for the management of the air force and for all the power that Klimczuk, this vat, the villain who serves the enemy who's involved in the deployment of activists in Dnipropetrovsk, has gone up, he's now the head of the Cybercrime Directorate of the Dnipropetrov Regional Air Force. It's a great shame and a great shame. Moreover, Klimchuk uses his office to pressure the press to remove facts on the Internet that testify to his anti - Ukrainian activities, facts that testify to a life of luxury that cannot be matched by a declaration made by an honest coworker of the U.S.S.A. So I demand to immediately bring Agent Klimczuk of the FSB to criminal responsibility, of course, to release him from his position. Please consider my address as an official address to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office. If we, our faction of the Radical Party of Lalashka, have repeatedly written requests to the B.S.A. about this violent situation, which is a disgrace during the war, when the Aggressor State Security Officer Klimchuk has a position given to him by the Ukrainian vertical of power. Otherwise, we're going to block the rostrum, we're going to do all the work. We're going to get to every vat. Separats don't belong in the Ukrainian government. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u73	Thank you. National MP Arthur Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u74	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! I have to speak again today from this rostrum to inform you of the disastrously complex situation related to our country's energy independence and security. On 2 and 3 March, Kiev again heard the sound of miners' helmets. Some 4,000 energy miners have come under the walls of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet to express their legitimate demands and to receive answers to their questions. This is primarily the payment of arrears on wages, the preservation of public coal and reprocessing enterprises, their stability and timely calculations for coal and electricity produced. These are the fundamental principles that are necessary today to protect national energy independence. The import of electricity and coal is not an option for Ukraine, especially under such cable conditions, and an unacceptable price policy. The reason for the second protest action at the beginning of March is the failure of the Prime Minister's 28 January mandate to resolve the problems in the fuel and energy complex. The Shachers understand that the situation in the country is complex, but they do not agree that by increasing the wage and pension tax they have earned in hard and dangerous work, the State budget will be filled. No one is given the right to place such a courageous profession, their family, and, as a result, mining cities and settlements on the verge of survival. Today, I see that the only one who works to protect the rights of coal miners is concerned about this situation: the leaders of trade union organizations and the members of the interfractional association “Protect the coal industry”, whose deputy head I am. It was we who insisted, and on 3 March there was a meeting of trade union leaders with the President of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Groysman. The Speaker of Parliament promised that he would speak to the Prime Minister on the issues raised and would inform the President. The authorities should know that it is not worth ignoring the fair demands of miners because they know and know how to defend their right to a decent life. The Cabinet should draw conclusions, and first and foremost, entrust the industry to professionals, not officials, who merely destroy and not build. I recall that on 2 March, all participants, including thousands of miners and energy, voted unanimously in favour of the resignation of the Minister of Energy and the Government of Demchisin. Therefore, 25 members of the people from different political powers confirmed this by their signatures, registering on 3 March a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the resignation of Demchisin. And I insist that this issue be included in the agenda at the next plenary meeting. I'd like you to consider that my request. And I remind you, coal will save Ukraine if Ukraine saves its coal. Ukraine's hatters will protect energy security if Ukraine retains its miners. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u75	Thank you. National MP Mikhailo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u76	National MP Mikhailo Mainly, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, election district number 164, Ternopolska. Honorable MPs, colleagues, distinguished voters who oversee the actions of the Supreme Council! I would like to highlight the problem that now concerns all of us with you is this social injustice and this is the social crisis that has taken place in the Ukrainian state. Unfortunately, we have not heard a full report from the NBA head today. We realize that this person is responsible for the national currency exchange rate, which, in principle, starts with the rapid rise in fuel prices, medicine, food prices. And we realize that this situation in the state practically makes it impossible for a simple Ukrainian to survive. Unfortunately, the government went a very different way: instead of burdening the oligarchs and introducing and introducing a progressive scale of taxation, reducing the burden on small and medium-sized businesses, he transferred all the burden to ordinary Ukrainians, and we see that by doing so we are simply causing a social explosion in our country. I wouldn't be surprised if, literally in a short period of time, under the walls of the Supreme Council, in the streets of Kiev and in all other cities, people would come out in mass, and that would end simply by the confusion of this power, and all of them: both the government, and the parliament, and the President at the same time. Because such abuse and such pressure will not be tolerated by the Ukrainian community. I understand that we are now with you, honourable deputies, to mobilize as quickly as possible and to consider all necessary bills. I'm surprised by the coalition's inaction, which does not impose socially important laws in the session room, the same ones that initiated the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, it's blocking the flow of funds from Ukraine, as it were, breaking the deal with Cyprus, other offshore areas. Unfortunately, Ukraine is like a lousy sack. As long as you don't put credit in here, all the money is coming out of here. And we're not fighting this in any way. So our task is to get the economy out of the shadows as quickly as possible. And it's strange to hear that in a year of government reform we haven't seen those reforms. The economy was both in the shadows and in the background. Official statistics - $6 billion only customs pass through our borders. And now we're taking it away, Parliament has voted on criminal law to take money from pensioners! It's unacceptable, it's criminal. Therefore, honourable Members, fellow Members! Let's still lay down the necessary laws, the ones we initiated, Freedom and other political factions. And to consider them urgently in Parliament. Protecting the village. It's about national security. First order of business, let's get all the faction representatives on their own, we're going to set up a temporary commission of inquiry on the activities of the NBA and the heads of the NBA. We realize that then we will find evidence of a violation of the NBA's activities for those criminal refinancings. And then we can bring her to justice. Let's go to the Attorney General. It's all to the detriment of Ukraine! So let's mobilize our forces. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u77	Thank you. National MP Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u78	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Dear Ukrainian people! I would like to point out, first of all, the third time I am speaking out of this rostrum with the fact that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich, is ignoring the Ukrainian Parliament during the "hour of questions to the Government". [[Applause]] All of us today have witnessed, for the third time, ignoring us as Prime Minister. Dear National Deputies! Do you remember voting for Prime Minister? There were only two national deputies who voted against this person's appointment as Prime Minister. And other national MPs voted in favour. So if you made a mistake and voted for someone who ignores us, doesn't listen, can't answer our questions, maybe it's time. It's time to fix this mistake. I think we should put and be obliged in the near future that ignoring Parliament, ignoring Mr. Yatsenuk of our Parliament during the "hour of questions to the government" will lead to his imminent resignation. And I ask the head of the Supreme Council to officially address the Cabinet of Ministers and at all the councils to emphasize this. We will not allow the Ukrainian Parliament to be ignored by any official, even if it is the Prime Minister. Another issue that continues to be ignored by the current Prime Minister is the coal sector. My colleague, though from the Opposition Block, pointed out correctly. The Prime Minister has instructed the Minister of Energy to resolve the coal issue immediately. What do you think? Did Arsenius Petrovich take control of the commission? He's been ignoring the line. Because the Minister of Energy, during the review of the State Budget, which we all voted here in the Hall, has given 1 billion 340 million to pay at least the basic wage to our miners. What do we have in total? At the direction of the Prime Minister and at the direction of the Minister of Finance, no number has been provided for miners in this State Budget. And we have a very large number of budget mines. It's got to pay the budget. This proposal is not included again. Now we've come up with an initiative, national MPs who are joining the interfractional MPs' union, "Let's defend the coal sector!" to review and amend the State budget immediately. If we don't do that, and we don't do that, we don't do that, and we don't do that, and we don't do that, and we don't do that to the miners, at least. The minimum they require is a billion 340 million, the red-city situation that is today, that the blocked five roads that lead, the storm took the measure, the opaque appointment of the leader of the coal DP, it has every chance of moving across Ukraine. I think the state government and the prime minister should listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u79	Thank you. National MP Bogdan Dubnevich, please. You don't? I'm sorry, it's just here. Victor Halasyuk, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u80	Dear Ukrainian people, fellow countrymen! This week, taking into account the depth and severity of the economic problems that have arisen in our country, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has decided to initiate the establishment of an anti-crisis economic headquarters, which is to combine the management of the Ministry of Economics, the professional units of the President's Administration, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship and several representatives of each faction, as well as representatives of all the largest associations of Ukrainian producers. This is our emergency demand, which is now supported by the Radical Party faction, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front. Its idea today is to set up a normal, real solution to the problems of industry, the tasks of the manufacturing sector, because today some cannot get licenses for certain kinds of activities, although we have adopted appropriate laws, others cannot get permission for an expert in production, although they have good reasons, the cost of credits, government orders, the number of problems that today need not strategy, but need an urgent solution to weekly meetings with an appropriate response at the level of the first person of the state. I informed myself of this initiative by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Economy. Today we have received letters of support from all the major associations of Ukrainian producers: the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the American Business Council, the USSR, the European Business Association, the Federation of Employers, the Association of Taxpayers of Ukraine. And that's not a complete list. So we're looking forward to the response of the economics minister when a headquarters is created so that he can start his work immediately and start solving the problems that have accumulated in the Ukrainian economy. As far as economic reforms are concerned. I want to stress once again what I said to the National Reform Council of the President and to all the members of the Council yesterday. If we're on the economic block today focusing exclusively on deregulation, we're losing economic war. Because the regulatory sphere is 10-15 percent of what we have to do today. The cost of credit is too bad, the tax is one that doesn't encourage investment. Infrastructural policy is needed. Industrial policy is needed. Education needs to be directed towards the development of our own industry. We need to gather all our resources today, gather all our resources into a fist to protect the national producer. In order not to import foreign goods at the expense of foreign loans, but to launch state development institutions, the State Development Bank, the Credit and Experiment Agency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u81	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u82	The National Small Business Loan Fund to open up the economy to the other side. Today, we need to freeze our own economy by increasing the cost of credit and taxes, rather than freezing our own economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u83	Thank you very much. Bogdan Dubnevich, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u84	Dear Mrs. Head, distinguished national MPs, my dear voters, Bogdan Dubnevich, strike group. I recently spoke from this rostrum about providing our heroes in the ATO area with automobile technology. At the same time, there is a sharp shortage on the front, and it is still lying somewhere in the warehouses of numerous government structures in storage. Well, it's on the move. This week, National Guard officials have promised to take all the suitable vehicles from Lviv’s warehouses. Thank you to all the national deputies who supported our request. I regret, however, that the Ministry of Defense did not respond to the call to withdraw the technology. A more active National Guard. However, there is a problem with technology that is more common in the Armed Forces. I ask the officials of the ministry not to catch haws, for I know that many lion parts and associations cry out for help in car technology, however, even this experience is considered very successful. Please conduct full inventory and how much, and where such equipment is still stored at the warehouses, arrange repairs and everything necessary to transfer it to our army. For my part, I’m anouncing my own meetings with the executives of the institutions that maintain such techniques to speed up their transfer to the ATO area. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u85	Thank you. National MP Arthur Gerasimov. None. Is it? Please. People's MP Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u86	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, people, and especially authorities! Regrettably, there is no way to communicate, by the way, that the Rules should be amended not to be 1 hour, but 2 or 3 of them could be more beneficial. It's been over a year since Maidan, but we can see there's no change. Maidan’s basic requirement regarding corrupt schemes of destruction and change of power has not been met. If Economy Minister Abromavistus spoke of tax and customs evasion, I will say that this is rather vaguely said. Because such corrupt flows, which have been preserved in the fiscal and customs services themselves, could have been violently disrupting our stale budget. Agriculture, unfortunately, can be described as very small, inadequate, or not at all. Agroholdings, as they continue to govern, continue to work in the alcohol industry. Moreover, the human resources policy of the Ministry of Agriculture resembles a Reiss-Agra concert. The energy sector for us actually appears to be space. We don't know why our coal mines are standing, but we're buying coal in Russia. So is energy. Maybe it's to better fund an aggressor to kill our soldiers, or maybe our soldiers don't fight there or fight with who they're supposed to be? Financial and tax reform, unfortunately, has not succeeded, which has caused resentment both to local communities and to small businesses. Why are appropriate changes not preceded by competent consultations with representatives of small and medium - size business and local self - government? And if there's anything going on in the Henprosecutor's office, then in the police, unfortunately, in a year, nothing. So, so far, in a year, there's no police reform, and the comic books show us here. Let's do better to get the people's trust in the militia back. May those patriots of Maidan who are still sitting condemned to be returned and released immediately! To close criminal cases against them that are still fabricated by the Yanukovich regime. And it's not up to the Supreme Council to decide that right now, and we need to get the law enforcement system to work properly. If you don't, get out of the position! Thus, it seems to me that, unfortunately, the government led by the Prime Minister in a year has been unable to carry out reforms. Or he's not even capable of making them. And that's why we need to draw the cardinal conclusions right now. Either they're working, or get out! I want to be very wrong about that. So we're going to give the task accordingly. They should for a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u87	Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u88	draft legislation on reform of all kinds of sectors, regarding Ukraine's exit from the crisis. And if it's not there, then as they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u89	Thank you. National Deputy Alexander Marchenko. None. He's running. So get ready, you know, when you're next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u90	Good afternoon, distinguished voters, distinguished colleagues! MP Marchenko, 90 constituency, Bila Church, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It was a shame today to listen to the Minister of Economy's speech, which once again clearly did not set a priority for the development of Ukraine's economy, for the development of entrepreneurship, and in general where Ukraine's going, how we're going to make money. The previous speaker stressed that the government today should identify itself and report clearly on the work it is doing. But I want to make a sound about the appeal of my constituents, which are numerous, to the problems or to another war that we have in Ukraine. This war takes place on Ukrainian roads. According to the reports we have in the media, on Ukrainian roads because of their inadequacy, because of their underdevelopment, the absence of repairs on these roads, and this year the absence of subsidies for repairing utility roads, have virtually gone into a state of nonroads and into a state of direction. And I turn once again to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Infrastructure to address the transport problem of the city of the Bila Church. The city today has in the middle of a densely populated microregion the road R-17, which is inter-regional. The city today has an unresolved question of the humping bridge across the railway. It's in such a serious emergency. The city has a nine - month unrepaired railway move. In general, when I go to the government, when I talk to the economy minister, I want to go to him, and let him point out that the construction sector, the road construction sector, is going to help today's Ukrainian economy get out of the crisis. So far, there are qualified engineering personnel in Ukraine, so notice. Notice the construction of roads, the development of infrastructure, and this sector will help you fill the budget, create new jobs not only for the construction industry, but for 26 other sectors in Ukraine. It is vital that we make such decisions quickly so that we can all make decisions with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u91	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u92	So that we can adopt legislation in the Supreme Council Hall that will ensure that these directions are implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u93	Thank you. National MP Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues! I regret that today the Ukrainian Parliament was afraid to take responsibility for the country's fate and vote on the decision to resign the head of the National Bank of Honduras. I believe that the policy of the National Bank, which is being pursued today by Mrs. Gontareva, is an anti-Ukrainian policy that leads to our economic problems today in the country. The National Bank has increased its refinancing rate to 30 percent by day. This means that no commercial bank is able to issue loans under 40-50 percent of the year. This is the destruction of small and medium-sized and large businesses in Ukraine. Today, the National Bank tells us that it is struggling with inflation, with a falling rate of bracelets. In fact, they're fighting a domestic national producer and a domestic economy. Tomorrow, as a result of the activities of the National Bank, hundreds of thousands and millions of Ukrainian citizens will be out of work, without livelihoods. The policies of the National Bank, the heads of the National Bank of Honduras, have led millions of Ukrainian citizens to become beggars, lose their salaries, lose their pensions, lose their savings, and close their eyes, pretend that nothing is going on, tell them that Hontareva is working in the interests of the country, can only people who are completely unaware of the economy or the enemies of Ukraine. Because Ukraine's interest, our victories on the eastern front will be when there's a strong Ukrainian army, a strong Ukrainian economy, a stable Ukrainian national currency -- a bracelet and a responsible authority that won't lie or steal. And when we have lies, thefts, corruption, irresponsibility to war, fraud on Putin, that's not true, because more than we, the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian National Bank, more of us, no one is to blame for what's going on in the country today. That is why I am in line with this highest parliamentary rostrum to request the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, to submit to the Supreme Council a motion for the release of the head of the National Bank of Honduras from office. Because the National Bank's policy today is hurting the country, it's hurting the Ukrainian economy, it's hurting everyone, it's taking every Ukrainian citizen. And the one who does not take political responsibility is equally responsible for the consequences of his activities, who is afraid to admit obvious things. I ask the President of Ukraine, in spite of personal sympathy or antipathy, to make a decision in the interests of the country, for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens, to release Gottareva, to stop the looting policy of millions of Ukrainian citizens. This policy must be rooted out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u95	Thank you. National MP Mikola Lušnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u96	Dear Ukrainian people, Mr. Golovo, distinguished national MPs! In December, when we gave the government a mandate of trust, the government acknowledged that our agriculture was an economic locomotive. Today we see that this locomotive of the economy is on the verge of stopping. The government has turned completely away from the village, and there is no reform plan. Today, statistics show that some 20 percent of the areas will not be sown in 2015. We're not going to get about 10 million tons of grain. There are no rules to play. Agrarians in despair! Ladies and gentlemen, we have given a great mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers, a mandate for reform. Today, we see that Ukraine, instead of living in Europe and around the world, may not be able to support itself. Bread is 8 or 9. Why aren't we using the Agrarian Fund's intervention to make a lot of money? What awaits us at the end of 2015? Poverty. That's why I'm making an official request today to the Cabinet of Ministers: to provide a package of reforms for agriculture, financial support for agriculture -- and to return fully to the village. We have billions of banks to refinance, now only 800 million have been allocated to the village. These are crumbs from the master’s table. I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers again. Please address the urgent issues for the development of the agri-industrial complex. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u97	Thank you. And the last speech, the national deputy of Irina Suslov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it's the people's deputy Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, one Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, 10 People's Deputies of the Prashenko Block, 9 People's Front, I see, the People's Deputies of the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka are practically in full stock, half of the Self-Help and several non-fractional national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u99	There is no such faction. Several non-faction MPs elected by the people. And I'm now addressing, first of all, journalists who are also running around. Show the people of Ukraine how the national deputies work. Who is currently in the workplace and some are busy. That's how fish rot from their heads. And you have to start with yourself. It should start with the fact that, starting each meeting, the Head of the Supreme Council is in violation of the Rules, late at the beginning of the session, not reporting the number of missing persons, despite important or unimportant reasons, who is doing what he is doing and where he has gone and gone. The drafts that were submitted were registered in the Supreme Council’s apparatus for three convocations. And if you go by the letter of the law, there's no point in writing and passing bills now, because they won't be considered. I don't know where to go. I don't know where to go. I don't know where to go. Remember, 45 minutes ago we were discussing a bill to change the word "submission" to the word "application" and it was illiterately written. Remember, they missed the word "written." People are good, so what do we do? I'm talking about a humorous broadcast where a man and a woman talk and say, "How am I supposed to dress? And he says, That's it. So I bought it to buy it, not to wear it." So, honourable national MPs, let's write the bills that are needed, not to write them, and then to the electorate say, look at how many bills I've passed. Let's read what it says. And sometimes it's written that let's introduce a bill so that the court will take into account the evidence that the party will bring to trial. He'll count it if we bring it. You don't have to load the committee's work, the expert offices, the hall, where everyone comes out and. Ten seconds. Taking advantage of the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u100	Ten seconds, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u101	Taking advantage of the opportunity, on behalf of the members of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, I welcome all the Ukrainian national deputies to the festival. I wish you all health, a desire for life’s strength, a desire for family harmony, a desire for health for children! Don't you ever cry for your kids! Thank you to the Ukrainian women!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-06-m0.u102	Thank you very much. The time for the "Virgin" is over. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also remind you that the following week the national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups, but work. On March 11th, at 3 p.m., a session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hold parliamentary hearings on the theme "The role, meaning and impact of civil society on the formation of ethnic unity policy in Ukraine." Since this will not be a sessional week, I also ask you to bear this in mind for those who intend to participate in parliamentary hearings. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 17, at 10 a.m. Thus, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
