ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're starting our work. Well, first of all, dear colleagues, I want to thank you, I want to thank you, I want to thank everyone for yesterday's fruitful work day. I think we have demonstrated the political will to make the necessary decisions, especially in part of the visa-free regime, to fight corruption effectively. On the other hand, we demonstrated a desire to make good decisions. That means the laws we passed yesterday in the first. As a result of the first reading, they should be dealt with by a joint working group with the government, with our European partners, with the committees. To meet European standards. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, you and I passed five bills on the introduction of a visa-free regime with the European Union and a number of other important decisions. And in particular, including a bill that will allow for free disclosure of all the information about how to set tariffs on gas, on electricity, on residential services, which is extremely important. Yesterday I commissioned us to set up a working group with you to work on these projects on a visa-free basis. And we have to prepare them properly for the second reading. I would also like to focus your attention on the following. Today we have with you, apart from the "hours of questions to the government", a number of important decisions that we need to adopt. First. A moratorium on media screening during elections. And a moratorium on media screening during elections, which is extremely important. And we're going to have to make decisions about getting into the agenda and making decisions. And I'm asking the leaders of factions, groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, who really advocate freedom of speech, that after 11 o'clock in the room there be enough people's deputies to make the right decisions. The question of introducing innovation abroad. This is a draft of the Innomination Act, which we didn't get to yesterday, unfortunately, but today we have a chance to review and adopt this law, so I think we have to work very well today in this direction. Antitrust reform is a way to get $1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance, my friends. And also laws to prevent corruption in the sports sphere. This is such a full law that we need to consider today. That's why I'm addressing factions and groups, personally non-factional MPs. Dear colleagues, please ensure that you participate in the Council meeting so that we can make a decision. Disciplinary as far as I'm concerned. My friends, I will not accept that the vast majority of the members of the Supreme Council are hostages of the unscrupulous MPs who think that working in Parliament is not the job he should come to work as a citizen of Ukraine, who has a corresponding duty, not just the rights. Some may view the delegation as privileges. And I think it's unacceptable for you and me. So, please, internal discipline, including in factions, groups, is extremely important for the effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's a responsibility to people. And I would ask that we have respect for the people who choose us. Please, Your Honor, let's register. Turn on the glade system for registration. [[10:05:24]] Registered -256 256 National Deputies in the Hall. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that October 15 marks the World Breast Cancer Day. This is a huge problem that, unfortunately, takes the lives of women. And if you see these sloths in the National Deputies, it's just an emphasis on the importance of this day and an effective fight against this phenomenon. I think today will be about that. There will be a speech in Parliament on this matter. Also, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you. Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And Paul Petrovich Kostenko, colleagues, with birthday. [[Applause]] Success and well - being. Dear colleagues, we are now starting an hour of questions to the government. We have two 15-minute speeches from the Minister of Infrastructure, as well as the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Sergio Mironovich Kwit. Once again, I would like to point out that factions and groups have been asked to ensure the participation of the people's deputies in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since after asking the government to consider other important bills. Please welcome to the rostrum of Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Andrija Mikolaiovich Pivovarski. It's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u2	Dear MPs, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon! I've received quite a lot of questions from you in the last week. Most of the questions were about the Crossroads and the Reformation of the Crossroads. So I decided to start with a little presentation to let you know what we're trying to do right now. What is it? This is the first step in reforming the railway sector. The railway sector of Ukraine for the economy of Ukraine, for the state, this is one of the key ones in principle. That's why we're reforming. Before the reform of the Cruise Railroads, the Corporation of the Decorative Railways needs to be treated with absolute responsibility. To date, three levels of rail problems can be identified in Ukraine. These are three levels: the system level, the organizational level and the basic level. Today, the Ministry of Infrastructure is focusing on addressing these challenges: the completion of the creation of the Ukrainian Railways, the Corporation; changes in the organizational structure; the adoption of the new Railway Transport Act of Ukraine, which liberalizes Ukraine's rail transport; the construction of an efficient and transparent procurement system; and the change in the tariff system. What they're getting from the Cruise Railroad Corporation in Ukraine. First. This is an improvement in the technical condition of the railway, the moving composition, the increased efficiency of the work, the better quality of the rail services. Technical improvements. The transparency of purchases will lead to an improvement in the financial situation, allowing us to purchase new wagons, to rebuild the locomotive park. What is it? Next. What does that mean for the employees of the Railroads? Raising social standards, raising wages, restoring public authority and respect for a professional railway. Since October 1, we have already raised the basic salary for railways and we will do everything possible to raise the pay of railways again early next year. When I became a minister at the beginning of the year, the railways worked for an average of three days a week. From September 1, the railway was completely full, and all railway companies, except part of the Donetsk Railway, moved on to a five - day job. On the fourth quarter of this year, on the 1st quarter of the next year, all railway companies are 100 percent employed. Corporateization. What does that mean for the customers of the Crucifixion? Effective. It's a brand new customer orientation of Cruiseways: it's a new passenger car, a new quality of the relationship between rail and passenger customers, more convenient schedules, more comfortable travel. There are several myths in society and even in the expert community about what corporateism means and what the government is now doing with the Crucifixion. There are a few myths that I would like to say in particular right now. The first myth is that the Crucifixion is being prepared for privatization. That's absolutely not true, that's not even what this is about. Corporateization is not equal to privatization. The other one. When corporateized, the assets of the Railroads will be undervalued. As you know, in order to corporateize the Railroad, you had to estimate the assets. Independent evaluators were involved, the company Deloitte, who made the assessment, and the estimate is over 245 billion dollars. It's more than that. Three times what it was at the end of June last year. The third myth tells us that everyone will be released. Absolutely not true! Linear personnel will in no way be affected by corporateism, administrative personnel -- yes, indeed, they change both qualitatively and quantitatively. The fourth myth is that reform happens suddenly, and no one knows about it completely. It's also absolutely not true. This year alone, more than forty attempts have been made to use the best specialists, experts from the international community, the Ukrainian community to report corporate efficiency to society. The experts who participated in the preparation of the reform, if you look at the slide, you'll realize that this is the entire elite of the world's experts who participated in this reform: A.T. Kearney, Ernst & Yong, the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, the European Commission, the World Bank -- they all joined this process. And the sixth myth is that no one knows what to do after corporateization. An absolute myth. There is a clear understanding of what to do next. On September 2, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine accepted the evaluation, accepted the charter of the new company. On this Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a new government of the Railroads. Of the five people, one German with many years of experience in the field around the world. Of the five people, yes. Of the five people, one person with great experience in directing large groups in the private sector. Two hundred and ninety thousand people in the Crucifixion. There can't be a staffer in the Crucifixion. It's got to be an ostrich, a real fair ostrich. And we've raised the level of the eichar to the level of government. Because relationships with staff are the most valuable thing in Crucifixion. This decision has been taken, the Cabinet of Ministers has adopted a fundraiser for the Crossroads, and, more importantly, thanks to the anti-corruption fight, by making financial resources more efficient, we have been able to find an additional 1 billion dollars for the fourth quarter of this year, in order to increase the capital investment programme on the Cruise Railways to fill the railway undertakings and the mini-infrastructures. That's what it is about the Crucifixion Corporation. This presentation remains in the secretariat. If necessary, you can get it electronically. Now it's about your questions. "Give us information on the state of establishment of the public limited stock company "The Crucifixion." As I just said on September 2nd, they made a decision: if there are no bureaucratic delays, we will have to complete the corporation by the end of November 1st, create a legal entity, by the end of the year, 2015, fully transfer all assets so that from January 1st 2016, the new structure – Pat "The Cruszalznica" – will be fully operational. What is involved in the transfer of well - known hospitals. "Please explain why, today, it has failed to fully enforce the law in part of the transfer to municipal property of the entire health care facility." Currently, 58 of the 75 facilities have been transferred. It's been handed over for today. There's only six hospitals left. When I became a minister, the assignment was to hand over prominent hospitals, and it was found that in many cases either the land was not registered or the property was not registered. During the 24 - year period, routine bureaucratic matters have not been taken into consideration. It's taken a long time to solve these bureaucratic things. To date, there are only six hospitals that have not yet been handed over. The following week, on Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers handed over two more hospitals, with four remaining. Of the four, unfortunately, in the front zone, it's ruined, there's a difficult question. On three issues, I personally deal with the governors of the areas where this delay is taking place. People get salaries, but there's a bureaucratic delay in transmission. It's only three hospitals. "Please provide information on the status of implementation of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the distribution of the Donetsk Railway." There is now a process of transferring the assets of the structural units of the State Railway Company to the state-owned enterprises of the Transnistrian Railway and the South Railway, according to orders. The transfer process is complicated by the placement of some of the structural units of the Donetsk Railway in the fighting zone. We can't technically transfer some property complexes because we don't have physical access to them. As for other issues that do not apply to railways. "Why isn't the question of modernizing the corn drying process in the South Port?" What makes manufacturers stand in line or overpay private structures?" Today. Actually, that's not the case. So far, there are no dry grain cargoes in the state-owned port of the South. The transshipment of grain cargo in the seaport is carried out by private styvedor companies involved in the drying process. So far, there are no problems at all. In a state-owned styvedor company, the port of South Africa has no drying capacity at all. There are no problems for private researchers, no access, no technical restrictions, no railways. When brought into conformity with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of activities of the economy, the legal acts by excluding the use of a document called "Licensing card for a means of transport." By the end of March of this year, the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of economic activities had been adopted, which took effect since June 2015. With a view to bringing legislation into line with this law, the Mini-Infrastructures have already developed and approved Order No. 310, which is recognized as having lost the validity of other orders, in order to bring the legal framework into line with legislation. All draft orders have already been agreed with interested central executive authorities and sent to Minnesota for review, final approval. So the Ministry's work of bringing it into line with the requirements of the law in the deletion part of the term "licensory card" is completed and is at the final stage. Next. "Please inform us why the process of assigning managers to strategic units of the transport sector, such as Cruise Stations, seaports, airports, etc." About the railroad, I already told you what we're doing. So far, the Ministry of Infrastructure has held 18 contests, of which, unfortunately, only five companies have been selected to win. There's a huge problem with the footage that's being submitted to the competition. And one of the problems is the level of compensation in state-owned enterprises. A quality potential candidate can't and wants to pass. I have been associating with many people. He cannot and does not want to take up a leading position where he will receive an unmarketable, unfair salary. As a result, we have to relaunch the competitions over and over again, and we have to go and invite quality staff. So far, five companies have succeeded, 13 companies, unfortunately, have failed. An excellent example is the Lviv Airport. Twice we held a competition, twice the commission couldn't pick anyone, now the third time we started the competition. Until the systemic situation of fair compensation for heads of state enterprises, new bureaucrats is resolved, we, as the ministry, will have this problem. "Please indicate why the Order of the Ministry of Infrastructure amending the Order of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine since May 27, 13th, No. 316 on violation of antitrust legislation by a private operator compared to government-owned operators has granted economic preferences for receiving port assemblies which may result in damage to the state." Dear colleagues! Command 316 does not provide for any preference at all. The change in the arrangement of the congregation in the settlement of the relations of the subjects who are entitled under law to such repair does not increase the overall cost of paying the ship’s collection by the shipowner at seaport. We've only settled the legal issue; we've settled the issue systematically. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice has given its recommendation, and the Cabinet of Ministers has agreed. There's no preference for private companies in any way. "Can you offer alternative ways of regularly transporting students and teachers to the rural educational institutions to a place of study, work and home, which is now provided by the social program School Bus?" Today, the safety of children in their transportation is one of the main tasks of the ministry. Such transports should be carried out primarily by experienced carriers that meet the requirements of road transport legislation. The Ministry of Infrastructure is all over the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u3	30 seconds will do. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u4	Supports the development and approval of the new State Bus Program. We work with the Ministry of Education, we work together at the level of local authorities to find new opportunities to finance such programs. And I will urge you, honourable fellow MPs, to support such a programme in the 2016 budget and, if possible, to increase funding for such a programme. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u5	Thank you. The Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine Sergey Mironovich Flower is invited to speak. Give the minister a ride, please. Welcome. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Respectable Society! Dear National Deputies! So I have a couple of questions that are, in principle, something that many of our citizens are interested in. So I now have an opportunity to clarify these questions. So the first question from the MP's faction of the People's Front political party. "What is the reason for the delay in printing and the issue of student tickets, and how is this matter resolved?" You have to understand that student tickets, like all the diplomas, had been published before. For many years, I've released a scientific research institute of applied information technology. We know him briefly as INDI Five. It was a monopoly and prices for all tickets, for all diplomas, for all the testimonies were quite high. What did the Ministry of Education do last year? We were able to deprive this monopolist of the possibility of issuing one-on-one diplomas for higher education institutions and vocational education institutions, and this has led to -- I'm asking for your attention! – this led to the cost of higher education diplomas. We didn't do a cut all over Ukraine, but for example, I have information about Lviv, and it's 10 times cheaper. All over Ukraine, this has also cost them their diplomas. With regard to vocational education, this cost more than 20 times. 20 times! So you understand how much you're talking about. As we return to student tickets, for technical reasons, we have not yet been able to do so. We'll do it in due course, already this school year. I mean, INDI's not going to be the only monopoly. But to make a comparison, the most expensive bank card, if you release the smallest circulation, as I've been told, I don't understand it, from transparent plastic, with some special chip, has 34 bracelets. A student ticket that does not have a chip is offered by INDI PET (this is just a piece of plastic) is 72 bracelets for today. If there's a chip, there's a bank card, it's over 100 bucks. So this is about very big profits. We also tried to translate this function into a state-owned Inforesource company. And INDI PET, through the support of the Antimonopoly Committee and by bringing this opportunity to trial, has blocked us. So the Antimonopoly Committee actually supports the monopoly in this situation. This is a very difficult situation. And I'd have to spend a lot of time on that. But the point is that the Ministry of Education and Science is now in the process of demonopolizing student tickets and all possible diplomas and certificates. And in due course, we'll do it. Today, full wine is on hold and at a huge price for tickets is on INDI PET. That's my answer. The second question is, "Is there enough budget in 2015 to raise teachers' wages since September of this year, especially in low-income areas?".. I want to say that in order to pay for the work of education workers, an additional $1.8 billion was allocated. These include a grant of 1.6 billion dollars and a subsidy of 0.2 billion dollars for the preparation of labour personnel. In addition, the cost of the paid subsidies was further increased by the redistribution of budgetary assignments in the occupied territory of Donetské, Luhanské region. So we had a reserve, and we added another 0.27 billion dollars to the salary and 0.1 billion dollars to the equipment of the general educational institutions, that is, our schools with equipment special to the physics offices. That's what we have to do. There's nothing we can do about the development of our school if we don't have equipment for special offices of physics, biology, chemistry. It's like a minimum. And that's why the government found the first opportunity to allocate funds for this. It's very important. And this is a very important signal for our education. We think that the cost of a salary is enough. If it's not enough, we still have to redistribute from what we have as a reserve now from the territories now occupied in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. And we've also taken two decisions that allow, that was January 14, 2015, that we've allowed to finance wages both from the central budget and from various local budgets in order to be able to pay so quickly at a time when there are problems. So I think by the end of the school year, we have enough money to raise teachers' wages. The next question is, "Is the 2016 budget set aside for voluntary teacher certification and salary raises for teachers who will undergo such certification?" Such costs cannot be invested in the draft State budget for the following year, since there is no legal basis for this at present, there is no relevant law. Because the Education Act is just going to be submitted by our government to Parliament. And I want to remind you that two other very important laws are the Vocational Education Act and the scientific and scientific and technical activities have already been introduced into Parliament. And I hope we've had some previous discussions on this subject, which is either, and I want to invite you, or assign you, to these laws a special time, so that they can be considered in one day, or consider them as they arrive, when they're in order of day. So for us to talk about certification, as a minimum, we need to adopt the basic Education Act first. The next question is, "How do you plan to change the system of purchasing school textbooks to make them better and get to school in time for September 1st?".. To make them better, we do open competitions. For the first time this year, we made an open online contest when teachers voted for textbooks. It was an entirely new experience. For the next year, we'll also have an open competition, but we'll specify the rules to make them more effective, more understandable for everyone and more transparent. And that's what it is about content preparation, the textbooks themselves. But the other question is that they should be delivered in time. That depends primarily on what you're doing. So they're made and delivered. First of all, it's up to you, Your Honor, to the Supreme Council. Because certain budget assignments are required to do so. So we all have to find the money for this together. I want to remind you that last year, because we've cut the government budget spending four times to save the army, no such allocations have been made. And only because of the later joint position of the Supreme Council, the President and the Government, did we find 50 percent of the funds that were actually allocated to the Supreme Council. And then we proposed a system like 50 times 50. And in fact, we have information now that the costs are already, the last costs are coming from the areas. So the textbooks this year are late. And this year we're treating it not as a government order, but as a buy-out. Because, in fact, at this time, the publications have invested their money, and in most cases, apart from literature in minority languages, they are mostly already printed. So in order for us to prepare and deliver the manuals on time, the financing of the expenditure must be done by March-April next year. The next question is, "Well, given the need for patriotic military training, how do you plan on equipping military training offices in schools?".. Here, too, the question has two elements: first, it's a conceptual element. We do. You know, since September 1st in our schools, the concept of national patriotic education that has been developed and discussed, and now it's being implemented. Similarly, in time we created a working group for the development of a teaching program from the "Protection of Motherland" class for 10-11 classes of general education institutions. In addition to the Ministry of Education and Science, public organizations, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Service for Emergency Situations were part of the group. And by our command, we approved this program on July 30, 2015. It's working now. Likewise, with the social organization "The Centre for Military Policy and Security Policy" we have developed and approved a teacher. A set of teaching posters. What is involved in the responsibility for equipping the relevant offices directly. This responsibility lies with the local authorities because we have decentralization and we have the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. And according to the Ministry of Education, we join this by cooperating and turning to, first of all, the Ministry of Defence, we have good cooperation. So the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defence, the local authorities, we work together, and the cabinets are equipped and will continue to be equipped. "Can you offer alternative ways of regularly transporting students and teachers to rural educational institutions to places of study, work and home, and what is the state of the social program "The School Bus" for today? Of course, I want to say that today we do not have students and teachers who are on roads and who are not being picked up. So there are different ways that local authorities can cancel the shipping fee, they can make contracts for the provision of services with licensed carriers. This can also be done. And what we're still doing is we're working on the school bus program and we're going to buy buses. They're going to be a small number, a few dozen. I think 40 buses, I might be wrong, bought from the Regional Development Fund. And most importantly, right now we have a program like this, which is a project like funding textbooks. We've asked the district government authorities if you need school buses, please tell us how much you can give to buy school buses, and the government will add as much money. We have, in fact, a complete picture. There are several areas that have not responded. We're going to question them again, and so we're going to fund another number of buses for this particular school bus program. What do you need them for, first of all? First of all, they are needed to enable us to create an adequate network of quality schools in rural areas. Dear colleagues, I have everything. Thank you for your attention. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u7	Then. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the questions of the national MPs. I want to remind you that this is a question of national MPs, not factions. So the faction that wants to speak, just write it down. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the recording. And I would like you to sign up for the questions of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's a recording. Please sign in! Nechayev Alexander Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u8	Please give Shurmi the word Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u9	Next question to the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't ask questions about the purchase of drugs that are now worth 4 billion dollars and zeros, but only now are tenders. And it feels like our people are only sick by the end of the year, and they don't need it before. I'm not asking about providing vaccines that have failed to date, and the humanitarian aid that came with this vaccine is not knowing what questionable quality it is in storage for polio. Please give me the answer to your questions. Today we have one of the best in Europe of the Emergency Medical Act. Why has this law not been enacted in two years? And today, the Emergency Health Act does not work in most areas of Ukraine. One of the answers is that there is a staff policy: a responsible expert is released from the Ministry, who understands something. I don't get it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u10	I can answer for polio. Thank you for that question, very important. That party that was delivered in May is 1 million 200,000 doses, which I think were entirely groundless. They're in storage now until they pass the full test. The second party, which was delivered almost two weeks ago, is 2 million 200,000 doses. It's already out in the regions. There are absolutely no questions to this party. So they're in the regions today, and next week we're going to start a vaccination campaign. About the law that. for emergency medical care. You know, I actually think it's better to adopt laws that will work, not adopt those that don't work. I don't know the country. Don't yell at me, let me finish. Please accept the laws I'm proposing will be much better for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u11	Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the national deputy Spiowakovsky. If you can, from the rostrum, because it's from a group of national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I have a question for Mr. Kwiatashvili’s minister of health. Dear colleagues, we can treat the Ukrainian Education Act differently, but the abuse that took place before this act on October 6th regarding the removal of the university Rector, who was elected legally, is simply a violation of the law, Mr. Minister. Notice how you wrote the order, "Extract, because there are a lot of negative feedback about the Rector's work." So we have a lot of negatives for ministers. Next. You did not say when this person could return to the duties of a university rector. Thirdly, you actually intervened in the conflict of interest because you appointed Mrs. Pavlenko, who is on the side. On the other side of the conflict. Thirdly, you have appointed the Rector of Mr. Zimbaluk, who together took part in the Rector's election by Mrs. Amos. Please tell me. Answer the question, how are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u14	How much time do you need to finish? 30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u15	I mean, it's not normal, it's not natural. And I want to point out that the National University refers to education. And please at least ask your colleague, at least ask our committee, we came along with you yesterday. Lila Mikhailna and I came to you to resolve the matter. You said you'd solve that question and you didn't solve it. If this is the case with education, I don’t know why we have the Law on education.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. I understand that the presence of the cameras is very important because you approached me with this question yesterday, and I gave you an exhaustive answer. You are now in the Hall to let everyone know about this situation. I can answer that. There were about 40 different complaints at the university. I met Mrs. Amos yesterday. I respect her very much. I don't have any personal problems with her. The fact that she sounded her problems to me yesterday, i.e. her wishes, excuse me for making this investigation more effective. We agreed with all of her proposals. So you could come up to me and say, "How did you solve that?" I am telling you that the question of how long it will be removed (and I have had the absolute right to do so, and she agrees) until 16 October until the verification is complete. If there is. She agreed yesterday, if not. I'll take you. I answer you, please listen to me. No, you're talking, you're not listening. Please. Second. She said there was an open conflict of interest with the first amendment, she said, please, we will not include it in the committee." And the same thing about Mr. Cimbaluk is that we take him too. Today will be a new order. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Wife of Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u18	Please pass the word to the Deputy Illenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u19	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Minister of Education and Science. Sergey Mironovich, please listen. I have a question about the teaching of Ukrainian language, the history of Ukraine and philosophy in non-humanities and non-humanities. You canceled the order of the previous ministers. I think it was Wakarczuk's order. And aren't you planning on restoring it, because it's really a very important question for Ukrainian education to teach basic subjects like Ukrainian history, Ukrainian language. And I have a second question. It's personal to you. Sergey Mironovich, you know Yuri Orotyuk, a political prisoner who has been in prison for over 20 years. I know that. There's a poster hanging there right now. He's currently in prison illegally. They came to you, asked you to sign the papers for him. You didn't do it. Please explain why you did so. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u20	Thank you. Mr. Andryu, so the first question about Ukrainian is, more faithfully, we call this the Ukrainian scientific and humanitarian bloc. I feel like I've given you this explanation, but I can be wrong. What are you talking about? I really canceled the order, which seems to be in 2009, which is called "On Certain Compulsory Humanitarian Disciplines" -- somehow it's called that, but not many have seen it. This command includes 30 disciplines, most of which are not humanitarian, there's protection of work in the field, there's physical education, there's a lot of different disciplines. In addition, certain mandatory disciplines were regulated by other documents. If we talk about universities being autonomous, we cannot impose more than 30, it seems that 34 or 36 disciplines are compulsory. The point is that in the first year of school, even in the first year of colleges, even in the first year of colleges (I was called by colleagues from the province), even in the first year of college, even in the first year of college, there were only one colleges. It was thought that one of the subjects was in philosophy at one of the universities. So this is unacceptable in terms of the implementation of the new Higher Education Act. But specifically, if this is about this Ukrainian scientific and humanitarian bloc, it's about four subjects: it's Ukrainian language, it's Ukrainian history, it's Ukrainian history, it's Ukrainian culture history, it's philosophy. These items used to have 11 loans, now they have 12 loans, so this block is protected by a single ministerial document and they have increased loans on it. So you can't say that for non-humanities, we've reduced Ukrainian language and these humanitarian objects, that's not true, and I'm not talking about it for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u22	Dear Andrey Mikolayovich! Questions to the Minister of Infrastructure. I don't know who told you that the most painful problems in your field are the question of Crossroads. I'm a Cherkashka MP, and 67 percent of the Churches consider the problem number one for our area to be the problem of inability to drive our roads. There's a road called Kyiv-Znamyanka, which is a national road. During this year, I personally made four inquiries to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to you, including on the quality of this road. There are several sections on it, such as Smila Kamyanka, which are unfit for transport by any means other than tanks. I have answers, but unfortunately the road remains in the same condition. Please give us a chance for the current year, even if you want to cover the holes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u23	Your Honor! I am very grateful for your question. Indeed, the road economy in Ukraine is in a very difficult state. Over the course of 24 years, non-systemic funding, non-systemic approach to financing, and some technology has led to what we now have. More than 90 percent of road farming, road painting is extremely difficult throughout Ukraine. In 2015, 3.4 billion dollars were allocated for the so - called repairs, of which only half went to the site. You can go to repairs, you can go to pay, you can go to administration, and so on. That's less than 10 percent of what you need. To do so-called pit repairs. There's no other resources in the Ministry of Finance. The budget decentralization at the site resulted in huge amounts of money currently sitting in banks, deposits, or current accounts. Thanks to you, you've created the possibility of co-financing the roads of state importance, the local authorities, along with the Krauttodor. If the local authorities give funding to the Kravutodora in order to repair this year, make it a road trip, we'll be happy to do it. This year, the Ministry and the "Kravtodor" have found additional possibilities in jobs, in some areas. As you know, there's a Carpathian program that doesn't work well enough. And I believe that for the next year, a similar program should be set up in the budget for another region of Ukraine. But this will not solve the systemic problem of road farming. The systemic problem will only solve systemic quality funding at an adequate level. As far as I know, the Transport Committee, a group of deputies have already prepared the Target Road Fund Act. This law, if supported by you, will address the systemic issue of road construction in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u24	Please, Hope Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u25	Please give the word of Ostap Ednak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u26	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Ecology. Please explain why the government has made a completely disgraceful, expected national contribution to Ukraine by 2030 to the Paris Climate Conference? Why do we plan to increase greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent compared to 2012? This is the position of Ukraine. And this position is actually a recognition of its inability to technologically upgrade the economy, to implement energy conservation. And the second question to the Minister of Education. Please explain why John Frank’s university of violence and corruption in the Faculty of Journalism is flourishing. You promised to intervene. There were press calls. And the second question. Are tenders for 4-7 classes already under way? How could you print them without tenders? Please explain the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u27	Answer. Regarding the expected national contribution. 60 percent is the upper limit, it's a framework indicator. And no one is forcing Ukraine to throw out 60 percent. We can and we're going to lower that. As for today's figure, today it's about 50 percent of 1990 levels, it's in terms of war, it's in terms of economic decline. It's arrogant that we should have a reserve for economic growth. This figure, 60 percent, was the subject of very long public debate. This is the consolidated position of representatives of the 16 authorities, the authorities of the state, whose representatives are part of the interdisciplinary commission that approved the figure. I would like to point out that, according to existing rules, Ukraine has the right to review this contribution to the decline in the coming years. But today, given the need for an economic growth perspective, this figure is completely justified. And by the way, it's at the same level as the indicators that most developed countries offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u28	Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u29	Can I talk to you? I also answer the question. I didn't hear about the Institute of Journalism. But maybe you can fix me. But as far as textbooks are concerned, we should have paid for the government’s textbooks at the beginning of the spring. According to these procedures, it's normal, it's annual, just as it was supposed to be. At the time, we had no funds for textbooks. Not the kid. In fact, without asking us, the publications published these books themselves. And in fact, we now have the language that we're at these costs that we have, we're going to buy out part of the auction. And I emphasize that these textbooks will be important both for this year, although late, and for the next few years. That's why we didn't announce the tender in the spring. We've just announced this tender for purchase. Thank you. And about the Institute of Journalism, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u30	Before I tell the next speaker, I would like to emphasize to the deputies, 11 o’clock, perhaps five to eleven, we will begin the consideration of extremely important drafts. So I ask you to inform all the deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall, to take up their jobs. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll give it to Lavrik Mikoli Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u31	Please give the word to your colleague, Evlakh’s Anatolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u32	Anatoly Evlakhov, 207th Montenegrin constituency, I have a question for the best minister of social policy for the promotion of minimum wages and pensions. So it happened that the government's previous ruling did not take into account the indexations that were carried out on the spot, and now there are double interpretations about how to raise the wages, considering the indexation, or not. So I want to be a clear answer from the Ministry and an explanation of the places that people have to get promoted, taking into account the index that has been carried out since the beginning of the year. And the second question to the minister of infrastructure is the question after. From which you were approached by a group of deputies from Chernigovishte and Sustina, the road of Kyiv Priluka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u33	Please, 10 seconds. Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u34	This is a question for Andrew Pivovarsky: Is the next year’s reconstruction of the road taken into account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u35	With regard to the increase in wages that has and has taken place since 1 September 2015, including the changes to the State budget of Ukraine, which have been voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to say that, knowing such a situation, there may be manipulations at the local level with non-indices, allowances and so on, deliberately and specifically, in changes to the State budget, one point: "What is fixed on 1 September is the full salary for all budget workers." It is a constant, and since September 1, all increases in salaries and salaries have been added. This is enshrined in the law of Ukraine. So local authorities, budget managers, schools, hospitals, schools, cultural administrations, etc. have no right to take any allowances, indexes on wages. The changes to Ukraine’s State Budget provide for an additional allocation of about 5 billion dollars to pay for the work of budget workers. In addition, three weeks ago, the Cabinet of Ministers, by its decision, allocated 1 billion dollars to cover local budget deficits solely to raise salaries for budget workers. On this Monday, literally a few days ago, another 560 million were further allocated between the local budgets just for. in addition to salaries for budget workers. So there's 5 billion in the state budget, there's a billion that was added by the government three weeks ago, there's 560 million, half a billion that was allocated on Monday. There is sufficient resources in the local authorities to ensure that teachers, doctors, all budget workers are paid higher wages without restrictions on indices, without restrictions on allowances, without cancelling any additional payments that were due on September 1. But there was another ad in the state budget: if there are any problems, if there are any issues that are missing, we have given local budgets the right to spend extra money on raising salaries for the budget. That is, all the rights of budget workers are adequately protected. But we will certainly be monitoring this situation, and in the event of any misunderstandings, the lack of funds we will react quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u36	If I may, I will answer the question along the way, was the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, in fact, what roads will be repaired in 2016 and how many roads will be repaired in 2016 is up to you. From you, because, as much money as will be budgeted in 2016, so much will be spent on road construction. We're willing to work with all the deputies, respond to recommendations on how to use money. There's no problem here at all. We're willing to work to make sure that the money is used in a transparent, qualitative way and that there's no overuse of surplus money to send as much resources to road construction as possible. I have a request for your help. When considering the 2016 budget and road construction, please note that 3.2 billion to 3.4 billion money is insufficient and inadequate to solve road construction problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Ljiko Dmitry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Zlati Ogniewitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u41	Good afternoon. I have a question for the Ministry of Economics. Whether criminal conduct will be created for the Ukrainian State Agency of Copyright, which is involved in the organization of the system of "returns" and the withdrawal of money through.? The management is directly involved in, as it were, the random count of 14 million dollars that happened to be in Cyprus, and back to Ukraine, about 2 million dollars. Other money was dissolved in the air. Are you planning on resolving this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u42	Thank you for asking. In fact, the State Intellectual Property Service, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economics, was audited by this state-owned enterprise. And actually, according to the test materials, the crime you were talking about was found, and the cost of over 13 million dollars was mistakenly sent to the bank's private company, which in a few days was found to be insolvent. In fact, last Friday we transferred this act of inspection to the law enforcement authorities, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs requesting criminal conduct. And in fact, the Ministry here, for its part, has provided all the necessary materials for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out a criminal investigation of this fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u43	The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u44	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u45	I'll give it to Galasyuk. Next: Take the microphone, report to whom you are passing and automatically switch. Okay? A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u46	Thank you. I have a question for the government's economic bloc. The Polish newspaper Rich Pospolita reported that only in the first half of 2015 did 411,000 Ukrainians find employment in Poland. This is twice as much as it was in the previous year. What does this talk about? That people don't find themselves in Ukraine. Because of record unemployment, they are forced to seek a better destiny in other countries. I have a question for the government. What are you doing to correct this shameful trend? Because we all know what you're doing to privatize state enterprises and how many times you're introducing those laws to Parliament. Please tell me what is the plan to overcome unemployment in Ukraine. What is the plan for European investment in Ukraine? What is the plan to stimulate Ukrainian exports to other countries? What are you planning to do in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. First of all, we are. And you probably already see, the main task of the government that did it was macroeconomic stability. Today, we have already seen inflation decline, GDP declines, and this is the first block the government has been working on all this time. With the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics to ensure macrostabilisation in Ukraine. Because without that, foreign investment in Ukraine would not come. Next. Within the Ministry of Economics, we are currently working on creating an investment agency, creating effective mechanisms to stimulate investment participation, and for which Ukraine would compete with our other neighbors for investment capital. The third issue is the efficient work of state-owned enterprises. Those who remain state property are not privatized. It's also a replacement for management, and a replacement for corporate governance. Because these are also jobs that the state directly influences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u48	Thank you. All answered, didn't they? Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u49	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, please give the floor to our colleague, Andry Antonishtak, who will present the position of a group of deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention! I want to talk to you now. Mr. Andrey! I want to speak to a representative of the Ministry of Finance right now. Please tell me why you're setting up the President and blocking Bill 2406. That's social security for the 200s and 300s. I'm sorry, you don't even understand what this is about: 200 and 300. They're dead and wounded. Where we offered to raise the social security by 50 percent. You've calculated that we need an extra billion dollars this year. We have a budget for this year that's going to be 30 billion. You're now proposing some populism for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u51	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u52	I just want to ask you one question: did you close your eyes on 200? Did you bring them into the family? You know what you can buy 600,000 for?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. The Supreme Council has determined its position. This bill is now under consideration by the President. If it's signed by the President, of course, both we and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy will do it in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u54	We're done. Please, Illenka. And that's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u55	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the government's economic bloc. It's already been raised by colleagues today, but I would still like to hear a clearer answer. The government has in fact bombarded the Supreme Council with a bill on total privatization of state-owned enterprises for a year. I understand that if there are inefficient state-owned enterprises that are corrupt, it is clear. But it's about strategic state enterprises, it's about businesses that work today, make profits, it's about ports. I have a question. Is it possible at all during a real war, in fact, to engage in privatization? Is this not essentially a sale of apartments in a burning house for free? And does the government even consider another option? Because strategic enterprises, in our view, should not in principle be privatized. We went through this chaotic privatization in the '90s, and now we have the oligarchs. Why do we have to increase the oligarchy? Once again, if there's a bankrupt enterprise, it's one situation, but not all of it's to get rich and enrich its oligarchs. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u56	Dear fellow MP, thank you so much for asking. Unfortunately, you are under the influence of one of the myths that is in society. The government does not offer to privatize the geographical points of the ports of Ukraine. Privatization of strategic infrastructure is not discussed. The government is talking about privatizing state-owned stymies, operators operating on this strategic infrastructure. Ukraine is one of the few countries in the world where there is such a notion as a state styvidor, except in cases where this is necessary for strategic purposes, the Ucroboranexport, for example. In most countries, port infrastructure operators are private professional operators. If you look at it. Today in Ukraine there are, there are many private styvedor companies, if you look at their effectiveness, if you look at what average salaries in private styvidors compared to government styvedors, if you look at the social packages that are in the union, in private styvidors, it's going to become absolutely obvious. Private styvedor companies are more socially oriented, more wages, more efficiency, more taxes the state earns, more money gets the administration of Ukrainian seaports. So the government wants to create new conditions for investing in port operators. Ukrainian ports are geographical points, not privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u57	Thank you very much. So the hour of questions to the government is over, but I have a request, one minute, because today is an important day, and there's a request, one minute of interfractional merge message "Equal Opportunities", co-head is Jonah. And it's important that you be there. That's one minute of the speech, when she came out of the rostrum. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, today we have attached pink ribbons by no chance. This little detail is a symbol of the international movement -- the movement of society on breast cancer. It was this pink ribbon that brought the Supreme Council together today, all of whom are not indifferent to this problem. And because pink is the color of the international symbol of the fight against breast cancer, so the action we're doing is called pink October. The goal of our move is to draw the attention of the people's deputies, especially the government, the media, to the problem of prevention and early diagnosis of breast cancer, which is the guarantee of preserving the health of the population. Because it is a warning and an early diagnosis that should become a priority of the state in the area of cancer control. I just want to say that Ukraine goes into the first ten times the number of cancer patients. And we were diagnosed with 16 and a half thousand women in 2013, 7 and a half thousand of them dead! That is why one woman dies every hour of breast cancer! And these alarming figures show that prevention, the prevention of breast cancer itself, is an urgent problem that needs special attention from the State and from the whole of society. I want to say that the problem with this high level of mortality is neglect and access to quality free treatment. The problem is complex. And I am very much asking the Ministry of Health to address this issue. Because attention to your health is a key element of prevention. And a good early diagnosis, it'll save lives. I would like to say that the members of the Supreme Council are ready to provide assistance and support to the government, the Ministry of Health, and the development of appropriate programs. Moreover, MPs today are examples that show support for solving this problem. In 2013, for the first time, an information campaign was launched and conducted. The members of the Supreme Council counted their earnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u60	finish. His salary for repairing the mammography at the Cherkas Cancer Dispensor. Also, a colleague named Maria Mathios, who was provided with material treatment, acquired a high - frequency surgical knife to separate breast cancer. 200 operations have already been completed! So only by working together can we help, we can solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u61	Thank you. And now I want to thank the Supreme Council of the Government, thank you for participating in the work of the Supreme Council. And happy birthday to you! Fruitful Active Work! Dear colleagues! Once again, I'd like to invite the MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall. Now I want to report that two factions have reached the presidency. The People's Front MP and the deputy faction of Peter Prashenko, a request for a recess. But they're ready, please, they're asking to replace the break with a tribune. And I invite Yuri Timoshenko to the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u62	Yes, my friends, please remind everyone that today is exactly 40 days from that terrible tragedy that took the lives of four children: not soldiers, not adult men, but four children. Their names are Debra Igor, Slanikov Dmitry, Kostina Alexander, and Datsuk Bogdan. Please remember them for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I would like to mention to everyone that they died not for us, but primarily for the triumph of order and justice in our state. They have preserved our nation from falling into the chaos of lawlessness and terrorism. I was on Maidan the first and the last day, and I remember the first time I fought in the bank. On December 1, 2013, when we stood up to such children, and we shouted to each other, "Boys, we push, but we don't fight, we don't fight, because they're our children, they're not our enemies." And it hurt me to see how in this situation the villains, the vile, the dishonest people, used that these children stood unarmed and did no resistance, beat, and beat them, and kicked them in the head, enjoying what they did. Then, when they were few, they threw grenades at them. One goal was to provoke them to fire in return. And the children stood there, they bled, and they didn't answer. And they won. Because the truth was on their side, honor and gratitude for it. And I ask you all to support us in our efforts to perpetuate their memory. "The People's Front" asks all members of the Supreme Council to support the appeal of Deputy Anton Heraszczenko to the following content: "The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To perpetuate the memory of the fighters of the National Guard of Ukraine who died on 31 August 2015 in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, protecting freedom and democracy in Ukraine. To commemorate the memory of the Ukrainian National Guard fighters who died on August 31, 2015 in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defending freedom and democracy in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u63	Please let me finish for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u64	violence and terrorism based on political or other motives. To entrust the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with considering the creation of a memory board in the Supreme Council walls, identifying the names of the four killed fighters of the National Guard: Debra, Slastinkova, Kostina, and Datsuka. This decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." And I'm also very upset by one circumstance, why in all these 40 days, the people on this Council, and they're relevant to this crime, there's no simple human saying, "I'm sorry, they didn't count, they didn't save, they didn't want to." I have not heard that word, and I condemn these people for such filth on their part. Shame on them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now moving into the agenda. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. (Ola, please make a decision. My decision, I don't have it.) Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to conduct a test vote before we begin our consideration of the issues. We have very important issues right now -- this is also the Pre-Election Media Security Ordinance, and a number of other bills. But in order for us to be able to discuss them fully. I'd like, first of all, to come into the hall, and then we'll have a vote. Please enter the Chamber of Deputies, which is in the towers, and please take your seats. Once again, I invite all the deputies into the hall to come and take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, are you ready for a signal vote? I'll wait another 30 seconds, please. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the MPs are meeting, we should have had the first Order of 2497a. And just to make a statement about this, I would like to invite you to the word Olya Cervakova. I would like to point out once again that I am not starting a discussion of the question, but I would like to invite you to speak in connection with this decision by Deputy Olga Cervakov -- this is not a consideration of the issue -- so that she can speak while the MPs are meeting. And I urge all deputies once again to enter the test room. Please, three minutes, Olga Cervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, you and I have already entered the electoral campaign, and it has been going on for quite some time, but we have forgotten to do one very important thing that regulates the media during the election campaign. Each Parliament has passed a decree prohibiting the testing of media by the fiscal authorities and the National Council. Why? Because. For a period. Because such tests could be used by certain officials as pressure on the media and could prevent freedom of speech in the course of their will and in preparation for their will. This determination was initiated in past convocations by Nicholas Tomenko, the former head of the profiling committee. Now, under such a decree, all the members of our Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy signed other deputies, not from the committee, non-factional. We come out of the fact that we need to put up fuses so that the media doesn't become a convenient target for politicians on both sides, on all sides, I'd say. I very much ask you, fellow officers, to mobilize now, come into the hall and vote in favour of this decree. Even in the days of the Yanuković dictatorship, such a decree was voted by all parliaments, beginning. I remember from Kuchmi. If we don't vote it now, it will be a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to quote for the stenographer as to what it means. "The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine shall take steps to end the checks by the appropriate services of the executive authorities and the public media institutions for the period of the election campaign of local councils and rural, rural, bridge-heads in 2015. To recommend to the National Fiscal Service and the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio to cancel the schedules for the monitoring of radio organizations during this pre-election campaign." Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support me. It's a technical document. It is simply an expression of Parliament’s will that we want the principles of freedom of speech and equal access for all subjects of the electoral process to be respected during the electoral campaign. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u67	Honorable colleagues apparently have no opposition, no authority, all equally interested in such a decision. So once again, I'm asking the MPs, now someone's out of the People's Front, get into the hall, get ready for a signal vote. That's a determination. I'm not betting. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is a signal vote: can we move on to this issue at all? So, are you ready? Please be prepared. I ask you to take part in the "yes" signal vote. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Vote. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[11:26:57]] For-166 I'm going to have another vote. Please, whoever has failed, we are re-voting. Please take part in the vote. Please activate the voting system, please. Please take part in the vote. Please. [[11:28:01]] For 177 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow Members, some who are already eligible are asked to do so for a few more minutes. At that time, I will read the announcements that have come. And once again, I would like to ask all deputies to enter who is in the towers. I'm going to read some announcements. Ask for a few minutes so the MPs can come. And I ask the deputies to come into the hall. And I'm going to read the announcements that came to the presidency. Dear colleagues, have you come to the deputies yet? Yes, the MPs are fine. Let's give the MPs one more minute of Victoria Sumar. Please, Victoria Sumar. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u68	Colleagues, well, we have a chance to enter as the first parliament into a history that, during the election campaign, did not vote in favour of a regulation banning the verification of the media. It's never happened before! Last night, at 6:00 p.m., everyone wanted to go home. Then, even before that, everyone wanted three weeks off work. On Friday, no one wants to come to the hall at all. And we see how many deputies today are in the Supreme Council. I have a huge offer for Parliament's leadership, to you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Andry Volodymyrovich, Andry Volodymyrovich! I have an offer, including to fellow journalists. Today, to publish clear information about all MPs who are absent from the Parliament Hall on a working day and who are unable to approve decisions that are critical during the election campaign!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u69	I'd like to invite all the deputies into the hall who are in the towers. And now, as the MPs gather, I give the floor to Minister Yuri Stecz, who remains after the "hour with the government" to be with us. Please turn on the microphone, Yuri Stec. Please turn on the microphone, probably next door. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u70	You see, I haven't been in the hall in a while, and it turns out there's a button. Comrades, I ask you once again, I urge you, as do the chairman of the committee, Victoria Sumar, to vote in favour of this order. It will be a disgrace to all of us. Recall the times of Yanukovich, even then the authorities voted to ensure that the channels that showed the opposition we were then so that the channels that showed the opposition did not check the tax and other fiscal authorities. Please. Likewise, I appeal to the opposition, raise your ranks there, you're no less interested. And so I also refer to journalists, every MP who doesn't vote, write down his last name and understand that, in fact, these people, who you have chosen, are responsible for freedom of speech in Ukraine. I call on everyone, please, not to transform the new Ukraine and not to return it to the time when everyone has said that there is no freedom of speech in Ukraine and there is pressure on the profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's nothing to discuss, company. Please, we're going to have another test vote. Please, Abdullin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u72	Abdullin, Fatherland. I mean, we don't have enough people here, tell me, and who gives the command to check out the media? What we're talking about right now, if there's no people here, let the government, there's a minister here, and they're going to solve this issue at the level of government -- not check the media during the election. It's completely peaceful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to take another vote. I'm asking MPs to mobilize, take jobs. You're ready, aren't you? I'm asking the deputies all to take up jobs. And please, comrades, once again take part in the signal vote. If there are not enough votes, unfortunately we will not be able to consider the ruling. I ask you to mobilize, and I ask you to vote. Dear colleagues, we have a vote, a signal vote. Please. [[11:35:13]] For-195 Let's ask Olya Chervakov to read the address. It's just an appeal to read about it. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to the discussion of the agenda. Perhaps during the discussion, the deputies will be fine. And I ask you to call on the deputies, not to urge, but to urge the members of the factions to enter the hall. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, you know what? I think that's Olga. Can I have your attention, please? What Olga Cervakova is doing right now is making a directive banning the verification of the media during the election campaign, so we're going to make an official letter on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament to the head of the U.S.F.F.A. and all that. and the Prime Minister, and what is set out in the decree, will be the position of the Ukrainian Parliament with a request not to conduct a media check. And if, God forbid, there will be such tests, we will be there making an outgoing committee meeting, in that media medium, to find out who is trying to abuse these things. Is there no objection? Government, Nacradi, and before. To the government, to Nakradi, to the DFS. Today I'm going to sign this address. Yuri Stac, the Minister of Information is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u75	At the next government meeting, we're going to put this decision into the government and try to do it through the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u76	All of it. I think we've settled this. Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, continue to lead. Let's, we have a number of bills, we can discuss them today to form a vote. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u77	Please, 2319a is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to clarify certain provisions). There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I ask you to take your seats, and I ask you to prepare for the vote. So I would like to support the proposal to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. Vote. [[11:39:24]] For-123 That's how we start with a full procedure. I invite the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Billous Igor Olegovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u78	The Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, honourable national deputies, is being brought to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to clarify Regulations 2319a of 09.07. This Decision The law is designed to implement the Coalition Agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call, the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to make comprehensive changes to the basic Ukrainian Privatisation Act, "On Privatisation of State Property" and to supplement and clarify the mandate of the government and the fund as defined in the relevant laws for the involvement of advisors and the preparation for the privatization and sale of objects. The bill is aimed at strengthening the protection of national interests in the privatization process. It is intended to prevent buyers from both natural and legal persons from the aggressor state. The obligation to disclose information about the end owners is extended regardless of the size of the stock to be purchased. The bill contains new and transparent rules for the sale of strategic objects, including for the non-splitting of shares in shares of group "B" and "G". It is proposed to exclude the requirement for the sale on stock markets of 5-10 percent of statutory capital before the competition. It regulates the way the shares of the "B" group are sold, with a government share in statutory capital of 25 plus 1 percent to 50 percent. It is expanded by privatization facilities that can be used by counselors to prepare for sale. For the economy, the public budget spending on councilors can be paid for the services of counsellors at the expense of international organizations and other non-legislative sources, as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the law will allow for the introduction of the principle of transparency. the principle of a new transparent privatization, increasing the economic efficiency of the sale of objects, and increasing the availability of a state budget in difficult times for the State. I look forward to understanding and supporting the people's deputies. Please be supportive. Finally, if we do everything right, we'll make about 30 billion dollars next year. Please support this serious change.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u79	Please sign up for the question. Three minutes to ask. Please, colleagues, questions-answers. Please, the Dove People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u80	Vladislav Doub, Petra Poroshenko's Block, Cherkashina, 197 constituency. Dear reporter, please tell us about the involvement of counselors with regard to so - called small privatization and whether the bill is designed to involve such counselors in small privatization, not just privatization of large objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u81	This law only speaks of advisors, groups "G" and "B" are strategic enterprises, and they're big. And energy. Small privatization, now we're doing, we're doing inventory, and we're trying to get alternative options for councillors, but they're not going to work from the state budget. We're talking about small privatization, mostly 95 percent -- real estate, real estate. And we would like to involve, if possible, the private sector, the realtors, and other mechanisms that will help us to effectively sell these objects that we have thousands of.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u82	Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u83	Please pass the word to Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u84	Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u85	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question to ask the head of the State Property Fund about this bill. The bill proposes to exclude mandatory offers for the sale on stock exchanges of a 5-10 per cent equity shareholding package before a competition is held to determine the market value of the shares of H and B group privatisation objects. In fact, to make it clear to the audience, it is a matter of a small percentage of shares being invested in the stock market in order to understand the real value of this item in the market, and then there is a sale. This is true of strategic enterprises. Why are you canceling this procedure, which is the point of cancelling this procedure? To make it cheaper to sell these companies to the oligarchs or to make it unclear what their real value is? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. The answer is very simple. At the moment, we have a stock market that's practically undeveloped, and when we have a full stock market as it was in Poland and it's happening, I think we can go back to this norm and even increase this percentage. Today, this rule is ineffective, and it only confuses international investors who don't want to go into privatization when the sale takes place. So this rule was not only born in our office, and this was born after extensive discussions with Western investors, with consultants, and so on. So this is actually a reality for today. I don't see the point of selling 5 percent of IDPs today before we have more than 10 strategic buyers per packet of 99.7 percent. I think it's, well, nonsense. So that's what we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u87	Please, Olena Sotnik, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u88	I have a question about counselors, again. In article 16, you propose changes regarding the appointment of these counselors and the election. When it comes to competitive selection, counsellors today are determined by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no criterion that they will be counsellors, how will they be determined, and how can both the Supreme Council control, and the society of appointment of these advisors, the quality of these advisors, and, accordingly, when these advisers are paid, how will this pay be determined? Because you just refer to a wide range of sources, but you don't define any criteria. Explain these points, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u89	See, all the advisors on group "G" and "B" will be selected exclusively on a competitive basis with super-transparent indicators, scales and so on. This is about large investment banks that will be involved in these objects that cost hundreds of millions of dollars there, yes. So literally today we're going to announce that we're going to choose an investment bank for the IPA, and I can say that in the hall that it's going to be a UBS investment bank, which is the leading investment bank in the world. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, why? We're going to show everyone, see, colleagues. Let's not have any discussions. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u90	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Alona Babak, Self Help. Last question, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u91	Please give the word to Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u92	Please, Ruslan Sidorovich is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u93	Dear Lord, the Head of the State Property Fund! I'd rather see you on this rostrum than you, but a minister, a minister of the economy. The issue of non-admission of Russian capital. And the norm that's written in this bill, we've been talking to you, it's completely ineffective. Any corporate lawyer on your knee right now is going to draw 50 diagrams of how Russian capital can get in. It's not just a question of sanctions. This is a matter of national security. We have Russian capital already occupied telecommunication, financial, and other strategically important issues for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u94	Let me answer that question. This law proposes exactly the kind of qualifications that we're going to use to select investors who will take part in strategic privatization. A task force will be set up with the participation of law enforcement agencies, including counterintelligence, and financial monitoring, and BSS, and so on, who will participate in this task force. Together we will all consider these supporting documents of all potential investors and collectively decide who we allow to privatize, whom we do not allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u95	Thank you. Please take your place in the government’s bed. Please invite the Economic Policy Committee's co-rapporteur, Bogdan Matkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u96	The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 15 July considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for clarification of certain regulations). It should be pointed out that the proposed amendments to privatization legislation are provided by the Legislative Reform Plan in Ukraine, by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and provided for in the Coalition Agreement. The committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u97	Please sign in. Do we have a question for the reporter, the committee secretary? You don't? None. Please take your place. Please log in from the factions, please. Please sign in. Please, Igor Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u98	Mr. Groissman, I'm on my way. Look who we're looking for, look who's in the room right now. It's a disgrace! I would like to make a comment as Head of Parliament. You know that on Friday, on a working day, a budget committee is sitting in Zaporozhye. And 25 of our colleagues flew there yesterday. What is it?? I know why I can talk because I have zero in this year. I go to work a hundred percent. Now we're fooling people. We're hating each other. And this parliament is going to break up and there's going to be a reelection not because we have a problem here between coalition and opposition, but because we spit in people's eyes. And now there's 100 with a hook of people here, and now we're cheating on the people. And I want to ask you first of all not to let our colleagues in Zaporozhye sit and we're here. It's a shame, I'm sorry! But this is the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u99	Dear Igor Volodymyrovich, thank you for this. In principle, you and I are thinking about what I said at the very beginning of the session. Dear friends, the work of the Ukrainian National MP is his duty: to participate in plenary meetings, in committee work. And today we are discussing laws on a live basis with the participation of national MPs. Therefore, the task of each national MP is to carry out his or her duties. And the other question, whether it's a national MP or not, is whether there's a personal vote, there's a personal speech. And every MP is responsible. And we're not cheating on anyone here because those present in the hall are fully involved in discussing important bills. But, I think, and this is a matter for the board of committees, that planning any exit meetings during plenary weeks is unacceptable and wrong. But this is a matter for committee management. I support your position. The plenary session is a plenary session. However, if we received only five committees in committee meetings last week, this is a matter of properly fulfilling our responsibilities as committee heads. And again, I want to say that I have no direct influence on the National MP or on his desire or unwillingness to participate in a meeting, in a meeting of the Supreme Council or in a committee meeting. But I want to stress, no matter what, that I don't have enough authority to influence MPs, walkers, including, I'm not going to deal with this! And I'm convinced that it's publicism, working with public organizations, that the media will allow us to bring order to this issue and personalize the responsibility of each of those who have come to Parliament and considered it a privilege rather than a normal, normal, quality job. Thank you, Your Honor. There is the head of the Committee on Budgets, Andrew Pavelko. A budget committee was mentioned today. Please repeat, and we'll continue our discussions with the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u100	Good afternoon. As a line. Today, the budget committee is here, but at the end of the meeting, there will indeed be two visiting meetings: in Zaporozhye and in Dnepropetrovsk. But it'll be on non-plenary days in the hall. And don't twist the facts. So today's work, everyone here, is here with all the members of the budget committee, and whoever has the opportunity is here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u101	Thank you. Colleagues, let's do this. With regard to the Committee on Budgets, of course. But in the words of the national deputy, Comrade Guzai is true, well, we know that there is a question. I'm not talking about the committee right now. There's a question about the attendance of the National Deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues! Colleagues! Dear fellow national MPs! Did you try to say anything when they scream in the hall? Have you ever tried it? So if we're acting quieter, we're working harder. And the culture of Parliament, and the restoration of parliamentaryism is in this Parliament, here, and we have to form it with you. Please, Oleg Barn, Peter Dust Block. We will not vote today on this law, we will go through the procedure of its discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u102	My speech will be about government activity at all, and so the first question I met was yesterday that our farmers, our landowners, were demanding to hold Ukraine and the village. The constitutional ban on selling land, turning it into goods, will make any corruption schemes with land impossible. So the question of the earth is a question that identifies us as national. The earth is a national wealth that should belong to the country, the nation, and not to individual money bags. And if we really care for the land and the village, we need to reject these cynical lies and commit ourselves to approving the very active national aid program for small farmers. To limit up to a thousand hectares of agrarian enterprises, to ban any aid to agroholdings, agrarian enterprises from using their land-pile manipulations. The land belongs to the people of Ukraine, and it is the profit of the people, not certain agrarian clans. The strategic sectors of our country are the areas of the Ukrainian defence industry, the military-industrial sector, transport, energy, the oil industry and the railways, particularly the liquor industry. And if these constantly profitable industries, starting with the Union, Yanukovich, Yushchenka were profitable, and now they're kind of unprofitable, then this is a matter for the government and the Prime Minister who is actually in charge of this government. Here's one of two: either these industries and property are run by diletters who don't know what they're going to prove, or the Prime Minister, along with the government, is artificially leading these enterprises to bankruptcy for the purpose of their further "acquisition". The government's statement and the Prime Minister's statement to include in the law of precautionary measures against buying these enterprises by the representatives of the aggressor country seems not only naive, but manipulative, cynical and mockery of our own. Over us, deputies. Because who forbids the primary buyer of these companies to resell them to the same Russian aggressor, a representative of the Russian business? And what happens next with our enterprises and strategic industries, we can take the example of the Lviv bus factory, which they cut and destroyed, turned into ruins. And if the government can't sort out the competition with the director of Easter for six months, then it's about. What can I say about his work? The issue of this competition is the typical face of government activity. So, your honor, you can't put order in, you can't do business, you can dry oars in front of Mr. Yatzenuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u103	Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, and I would like to thank the reporter, the head of the State Property Fund, Mr. Igor Billous. I would like to thank you, in principle, for your honesty and honesty and your truthfulness. What did Mr. Igor Billous say during his speech? He presented a law that says: "We want transparent competitions, but we already know who will win this ICZ competition." He says: "We don't want to sell 5 percent because there is no market. And we're going to sell big bags, even though there's no market." Thank you, Mr. Igor, for being so frank. You're just not a very experienced official, and you don't know how to mess with these situations. That's probably good. But to be serious, in fact the "Paternity" faction will not support any privatization in any way of strategic objects today. When the market lies, when there is no real price for objects, when there are no real investors; and when there are some manipulations about it. Why can't a private owner sell his business because he says, "They don't give me a normal price because I can't find a buyer for my business." Why should we sell state enterprises at this time? We're saying that the state is not an effective manager? That's how you appoint these managers. If you put thieves there who steal state enterprises and then you want to sell them to your own for nothing, it's wrong. And on returning to yesterday’s events, there was a statement that was overlooked. Statement by the chief military prosecutor of Ukraine, Mr. Matios, concerning the privatization by the State Property Fund of the Scientific Research Institute of Electromechanical Devices. It's during the war, people, the main company in the design and manufacture of military satellite communications and components for the Ukrainian Jewel, the anti-tank cold rocket, sold it to Ventilation Systems, which means we're changing our weapons to ventilation systems. Attention! Colleagues! Sit down. For 16 million dollars, it's $800,000. They sold a strategic enterprise in the center of Kiev that costs hundreds of millions of dollars. Is that the kind of privatization you want? You still want to draw up foreign advisors you already know, pay them from unknown sources, it's a totally abnormal situation, Mr. Head of the State Property Fund. But one more time. By the way, Mr. Mathios pointed out that a criminal case has already been committed, a more faithful, criminal conduct that has been entered into a single register and is awaiting results. But I hope this isn't going to be the way we always fight corruption. And what's this about, during the war, that kind of equipment that people sit for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u105	Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! Do you know what this bill represents to us? This is a continuation of our oligarchs' free donation. We're still trying to shove in government property for a penny. Our faction will definitely not support this bill. Let me explain briefly why. First of all, the issue of national security is not allowed by the Russian capital. I'm a corporate lawyer in the past, and I'm going to give you 50 knee schemes right now, and I'm going to draw how Russian capital is going to go in and buy all the strategic enterprises, like the Odessa Port Factory, like Dniproenergo, companies that make up national security. The second question is that it's a process of involving counselors. It's not just a question of the need for a transparent involvement of the relevant advisors, it's a question of the confidence of the white transparent capital, the white transparent investor of the West, who, under such conditions will never come to Ukraine and will not invest here, it won't even come close. We've met with the Ministry of Economics several times before, and we've explained what philosophy should be the privatizations, how this process should be written down, which should be the stock markets. We keep trying to come up with our bikes, with square wheels, with rhombics, and they have to be round. What is privatization? These are M&A agreements, so-called. The whole world has long known how to sell business and sell assets to attract adequate funds. And we're constantly trying to figure out a way to start this bike. Guys, he's not leaving! If we want real funding from privatization, we need to change the philosophy of privatization, both small and small privatization and privatization of large enterprises. Write out guarantees of nonparticipation of Russian capital, transparent, objective involvement of counselors, and only then put objects on sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich. A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u108	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! International investors in Europe, with whom are we constantly communicating in our committee's activities, and for whom is this privatisation planned in general? Who is it planned for when loans are worth 40 percent when corruption is no less, when taxes are dragon tax, when all business climate is set up hostilely to an investor? It's either planned for its friends, for those who are resistant to this aggressive business climate, or it's totally stupid. For three cents, sell out government assets, when they're worth the least. I have a question: does the Ministry of Economics know, does the State Property Fund know that they're going to sell? These 1 000 238 objects that are listed in the Supreme Council, the list that you're allowed to sell, you know how many of them there aren't at all, in the Ministry of Economics, financial indicators? I asked the official question about how many people work there, how much they pay taxes, what they have in general. There are no 804 of them. Can you imagine? So they don't know what they're planning to sell. This time. The second question. There's got to be a completely public discussion that's planned to sell and why. This should be useful to the state in terms of job creation, increasing output, entering new markets, and increasing tax revenues. Where's the analysis, you tell me? How can you do that with a shoelace? This should be done professionally and professionally. Now on the criteria. The Radical Party faction has repeatedly insisted on privatizing the need for enterprises that are critically lacking in investment resources. If the state cannot provide such resources, there is no investment in large-scale development in the state, then an investor needs to be involved. That's the first one. The other one. When it comes to having access to foreign markets, which the enterprise cannot survive without, then it must be privatized. And only in that case, if this can't be done, only if it doesn't help to change the management of these enterprises -- effective management, first of all, we have to imagine and show to Parliament, and all of Ukraine, what the people of Ukraine own. We need to report on the implementation of investment commitments, and then we need to talk about what we are selling through privatization. Well, that's ridiculous, at a time when the smallest thing is worth giving it away for three cents. No European State is privatizing just for the single budget. This is always done to involve a more efficient owner, who will create more jobs, who will pay higher wages, which will give more to the revenue budget, which will make more exports to other countries. The Radical Party faction therefore insists on such an economically sound approach to privatization. And the last. Contribution of state-owned enterprises to Ukraine’s GDP In Europe, that's 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u109	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u110	In Europe, that's 15 percent and in Ukraine, 10. So there is no surplus of state property in Ukraine. There's just inefficient management of this property.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make speeches from the National Deputies. Please note that I was approached with a request to give my word, to sign up carefully. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Please. Corchin Oksana. Parachutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the responsibility for this appointment of Head of Holding, the Maintenance Fund lies before all of us, because we have accepted it here in the Supreme Council. But I want to add to Vlasenko's words. For $800,000, 17 hectares [17 ha] of land was sold in Kiev. For the record, that's the price. Look at how much cynicism is in their possession right now. They come here to the Supreme Council, and they want to go against the law because they can't privatize. They're having a hard time doing that. And they want to facilitate this procedure. So I want to say that Thursday we have a committee meeting on anti-corruption. Mr. Head, we're going to raise this question to invite you there and ask how you've privatized those enterprises that we're talking about right now. To give an answer: For whom, for how long, who was involved? But just so everyone understands, it's our responsibility. All those who pressed the pros button. This was quite recently when everyone said that they would strongly reform the issue of the Holding Fund. That is why we are all responsible. And we have to stop those corruptions that are now taking place in the foundation. Thank you for your attention. And thank you, Mrs. Corchinsky, for the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u113	Thank you. Rizanenko Paula, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u114	Congratulations, fellows of honor! National Deputy Rizanenko, Deputy Special Commission on Privatization. First, on the substance of the bill. This bill contains only two important standards. The first is to eliminate the requirement to sell a small minority package on stock exchanges. And the second is the distribution of rules on the possibility of involving advisers not only in one group as before, but in order for the Holding Fund to be able to involve a consultant in the sale of any objects. As for the first rule. This was appropriate while the Funding Market existed in Ukraine. There are many people who have a bearing on the Fund’s market who know that it simply does not exist in Ukraine. So to buy these little packets that someone would now put out, well, you know, there are one or two buyers, they're the same buyers that would claim on a control package, and the stockholders wouldn't buy anything. So the exclusion of this standard in the conditions that exist in this country is actually logical. It's about getting counsellors involved. I understand that all the supermen here are here, and they want to control everything, and they want to select a sales advisor there for some construction in Lubna, and so on and so forth. Well, let's be realistic, it's not a function of Parliament, it's a function of the holding fund. That's what they have to do. And now, globally, it's about privatization. You know, there's a whole faction sitting here that came here to finance the people who went for privatization. In 24 years, there has been a generation of people in this country who can’t do anything but steal, adopt, and call it privatization. We made a big mistake that we did not privatize immediately, as we did in Eastern European countries. Thus, she is never just anywhere. But we, apart from creating injustice, and it was born in Britain when, I'm sorry, it was privatization. We've also created this generation that can't be eaten. All of these, I'm sorry, arbitration officials, evaluators, I apologize to the local council members who are also privatizing the land. They're all Darmoids who can't do anything. Today, ask a simple Ukrainian -- already a damaged mentality, people want to have an official's job, who seals the paperwork, and he gets the money for it. This is a generation of privatization. Privatization must be completed once and for all. And so there's a new generation that creates something, not just knows how to steal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u115	Thank you. Timis Grigory Ivanovich is handing over Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u116	D Dear compatriots! Dear colleagues! It's not privatization, it's expropriation and nationalization that's going to be the foundation of strategic and economic policy in our country. In the past call, I passed a bill on the nationalization of gas deposits. He was not appointed at any meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's been a lot of sabotage, and I totally agree with my colleague that in Ukrainian politics, 99 percent of the owners are the people who made their basic money at the expense of the Ukrainian people, the expropriation and the nationalization. Starting with pharmacies that feed on Ukrainian health, ending with gas deposits, this is a window, a Ukrainian window in Europe. If we don't take this strategy, if we don't come across the wishes of ordinary, ordinary Ukrainians, in this demand of both Midans, in this requirement of those citizens who are fighting on the front of Ukraine, we will never build up, we will not lay the foundation for a new economic policy. And the next. I would like us to register a temporary commission of inquiry at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and verify the activities of all the previous heads of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. And I assure you that after you've announced your activities, trying to put down the Ukrainian people's transportation plant, hundreds of other important enterprises, will also be checking the management of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. We need to introduce the Law on the Moratorium of Any Privatization until a new Parliament is elected under the new law, in which Sergey Kaplin's Party of Simple People will prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u117	Chizmar Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! The Radical Party faction, Yuri Chizmar. Clearly, the issue of privatization has always been complex, acute, and problematic. I agree with many deputies who can give hundreds of examples when they've been enriching state-owned enterprises for 20 years, stealing state property, but never creating any jobs there. And that's the big problem with privatization, because we know cases where there's a dollar in the world, but on the condition that you're creating jobs, that you're creating a branch and you're raising that economy. What do we see today? We've appointed a new government, we've appointed a new asset fund manager, a young man with Western education. But the methods remained the same. Today, Ukrainian businesses are selling, not even at the cost of scrap metal, but at a price of 5 times less metal scrap metal, because the main buyer of Ukrainian state enterprises is scrap metal collectors, who are simply cutting down the plant. Question: How's the estimate going, at what price? So the entire economic crisis, the war in the east, is used only to devalue property, scrap metal, earn barriers, but in no way does any industry rise. Look what they're doing with the alcohol factories right now. They are being privatized by companies that have been banned, spirit factories, for the purpose of allegedly developing bioethanol and other alternative fuels in Ukraine. In fact, the Tax Code, which is now proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, places an enormous amount of excise duty on bioethanol, a branch that is not developed. Who's going to buy this: bioethanethalists? No, it'll buy metallurgy, which will cut the whole alcohol plant to zero. And the regions of Ternopolščina, Lvivščina, Volina, Frankyevščina, Chernigovščina, Sumstina, Kyivščina, who today expect us to raise the alcohol industry and give these areas jobs, get an empty space, make money from metallurgy. So the sale of agriculture because of land, the sale of alcohol factories because of metal scrap is today's activity of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. I believe that this vicious practice must be stopped. Privatization cannot now take place in that form until we are thoroughly aware of the principles and principles of privatization. Therefore, the Radical Party does not support this bill and would like the State Property Fund in Billous to re-evaluate approaches to Ukrainian privatization, privatization of Ukrainian property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Koseljeva Allona is invited to attend. Passes the word "Lascow" to Oleg. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u120	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, those who are still in the hall! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The issue of privatization is a key issue of the existence of our nation at all. Remember how in the '90s, the vouchers stretched all the state property. Ten oligarchic clans have emerged, and as a result, we now have an extremely catastrophic situation in the Ukrainian economy. What does the government and the State Property Fund offer us now? Once again, they propose to amend the law, to place objects for privatization. There's no price, boys, on these objects. How much money are you going to sell it for? And the main thing is, what's the problem of privatization? If the task of filling the budget, as we always do, is to put a plan of income from the realisation of the assets to be carried out by the State Property Fund, it's not done anywhere in the world. It's bullshit to sell for real. What's more, if it makes a profit. And if it doesn't make any profit, if you're telling me that there's an inefficient manager in this company, then you assign these managers, and you run these businesses, then put an effective manager. But the brothers sell strategic Ukrainian businesses in conditions of Russian aggression, when it comes to rebuilding the military-industrial complex, restoring the economy. And privatization in our circumstances can pursue one-one goal: to preserve businesses, to create effective managers and jobs. And when we're privatizing businesses, my colleague, George Czee, said it was the right thing to do, to cut out metal, who's interested in living and feeding their families to thousands of people who worked in these businesses. Today, as a result of the destruction of the business, there is nowhere else to earn a penny and feed their family. So the Radical Party as an opposition political force, we argue that the politics of today's government under privatization to stretch the remainder of state property for a penny is a crime. This is a crime against Ukrainian citizens. This is a crime against the Ukrainian state. The goal of privatization should be one million new jobs, not a scrap of government property for a penny, then the emergence of new oligarchs as a result of the so-called delligarchization that President Poroshenko tells us about. I'd like to see where the deligarization is. But we know exactly who makes billions of dollars as a result of this deligarchization. And including through the State Property Fund. Therefore, the Radical Party is firmly opposed to the dereban State, the theft of Ukrainian property, which millions of Ukrainian citizens built on their hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u121	Thank you. The Chamberman passes the word to the deputy Golovk. Yes, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u122	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech, but I would like to return to the essence of privatization and its consequences in Ukraine. Oleg Valeriyovich actually mentioned in the '90s, when, for vouchers, people were handed out, the vouchers were bought, practically for a bottle of beer. And we had new oligarchs in front of us, who owned almost 90 percent of all property in Ukraine. There are literally 1,800 strategic enterprises left that have not yet been stolen. So, I want you to know, over the years of independence, the Holding Fund has privatized and, I'm sorry, given the opportunity to sell our assets to 29,000 state-owned enterprises for 61 billion dollars. If we cancel "Creebrisstal" from there -- 25 billion, "Cretaceous" -- 10 billion, that's all there is to it. Less than a million dollars for every company, for every factory. That is, the people were practically distraught, undressed, naked, and barefooted. This is what happened to this privatisation. And today, Ukrainians have turned into beggars, the poorest nation in the center of Europe, where the minimum wage of $50 is lower than in African countries. What is proposed? Today, the National Bank and the government have lowered the national currency below the plentuse, as the people say. The practical purchasing ability of bracelets is nothing. And at a time like this, they want to sell everything that's left. It is a strategic enterprise: those ports, railways and other strategic resources that belong to the Ukrainian State. What I'm saying is that Europe also shows the practice that the European economy, including in France, Germany, Britain, is more than 30 percent of the government sector. We've got him under 10. So we're saying that we're not going to Europe. On the contrary, there is virtually such a new oligarchization of Ukraine that wants to take away everything that has not yet been stolen. So, as a political party, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, we are absolutely against it. Moreover, we want to emphasize that Ukrainians and societies today demand nationalization, the return of illegally stolen strategic enterprises. First of all, energy-saving, energy-distributing companies: Oblenergo, Oblgas, these Tesses, they all took the oligarchs. We demand that this is our law registered, vote in parliament, return it to the state to work for the Ukrainian people, so that the income comes into the budget of Ukraine, not in the pocket of the oligarchs. Because I want to say to you that when a company is privatized, money is taken off and money is not paid to the budget. And our Offshore Disposal Act and their return to Ukrainian property to this day, has been a year in Parliament, both registered and not put to the vote. Therefore, we demand that the Nationalization of Strategic Enterprises Act be put in place and that money be returned from offshore. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u123	Thank you. Valeriy Vasilovich, I'm sorry you're no longer able to speak on this issue. We move on to the next item in the agenda. The closing words of Billous Igor Olegovich. Please be able to say the closing word. You can come from the rostrum, you can come from a place where you're comfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u124	Colleagues, I would just like to make something of myself as a privatization practice and a man who made a deal, a successful deal of billions of dollars, including in Ukraine. This law, it's a small set of rights for us to start successfully privatizing certain state-owned enterprises. Now, once again, I would like to stress that we are proposing to clear the sales order for the mandatory sale of 5-10 percent of strategic enterprises to the sale of major packages. Since, for example, we have about 13 buyers in Odessa today, 11 of them are foreign companies that have already chosen counselors, lawyers, bankers and are already interested in this business. We're going to get 500 to a billion dollars for this company. So this is a very important adjustment that investors are waiting for. The second amendment is a qualification condition to separate normal investors from abnormal ones, i.e. FATF, offshores, money origins, sanctions and aggressors. This is also a very important standard. As far as counsellor's concerned. Counselors will go to a transparent competition. Now it's written according to the Kabmin procedure, but I suggest we look at it in detail, if we need to do the whole procedure. On this day, a consultant who was taken away was taken from the company itself. The state doesn't pay, not a penny for that counselor. This will already be reflected in the terms of the sale of this object, and all the money will be covered by the buyer. Surrender yourself. Please. Take this seriously, because this is our next step in privatizing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u125	Thank you. Does the Mattovian Bogdan insist on the closing word? Don't insist. Dear colleagues! As we agreed, we discussed the bill. We'll vote him out on another day. I've been saying that since the beginning. We made a deal. We started by considering how important the bill is that we will have a discussion and we will make a decision, as we have already stated, in the position of "under the previous drafts." Now I'd like to consult you, colleagues. Look, we've been looking at questions, and I didn't announce how long it's been before, and we can't stop it by the book. Now I could announce a recess, but there are 332 requests from the national MPs. And I think it would be wiser if I read them, these questions. More deputies will be able to obtain these requests for work than to announce a break. Is there no objection? Please, what other questions are there? Is there no objection that I may make inquiries and not call a recess? Is there a general agreement in the room? Then, with your permission, I begin. I will proceed to read the requests, and in the first hour, the Rules will make statements by the deputies. Chapters "Cast." Thank you. I'm starting to read the MP's questions. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the provision of funds for the repair of the critical condition covered house number 4 on the street of Voronkin in the village of Visna Pich of the Žitomir district, in the district of Zitomir. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Administration, the head of the Žitomir District Council on the allocation of funds to pay off the debt for work, construction materials and the completion of the capital repair of the children's garden in the village of Korostka in the district of Žitomir. Sergey Laryna to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the cessation of supply to the Open Shareholder Society of Kirovogradgaz of compressed gas for the inhabitants of the Heivoron district of Kirovograd. Sergey Larina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the robbery of the House of the Political Party "The Opposition Block" in Kirovograd. Dmitri Andriyewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the second Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act No.425-VII of 14 May 2015 on the provision of State aid for the acquisition of vocational and higher education by participants in hostilities and their children. Dmitri Andriewsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of official information (explanation) on the status of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of legislation in the area of the provision of commercial natural gas accounting, the amount of financial resources and the available plans for the implementation of full natural gas appliances for natural persons. Igora Shurma to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the threat to Ukraine’s national security as a result of the inactivity of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the inappropriate organization of work on the implementation of the city’s replacement program and the modernization of Kiev’s elevators. Alexander Suprunka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the clarification of the possibility of introducing an electric heating system with electrically efficient household appliances. Igora Skini to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank for Corruption and Offences of the Management of the State Bank The Public Stock Exchange Society of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine. Irina Herashchenko to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the provision of information on the reasons for the non-payment of one-time financial assistance to the family of the dead volunteer hero at ATO Volodymyr Kočetkova-Sukača. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of war veterans and ATO participants in providing full information on the status of a participant in hostilities in connection with participation in the ATO by senior officials, executive authorities and local authorities. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a mandatory external independent evaluation from the history of Ukraine in 2016. Mikoli Tomenka to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the immediate examination of the Society's complaint with limited responsibility for Budservis to unlock the construction of the OHMATDIT Children's Hospital. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of gas in balloons to the population of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the publication, acquisition and delivery of manuals and manuals for students of the public educational institutions of state and municipal property at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional allocation of funds to ensure the payment of salaries to budget workers and the provision of utility and energy bills to the budget institutions of the Suma region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the authorities of the local self-governance of the Suma Region to prevent the abolition of a special system of taxation for agricultural producers, as defined by the Ukrainian Tax Code, and on the compensation of VAT on agricultural exports. Vladimir Lithuania to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the restoration of the movement of train No.11/112 Kharkiv-Lviv and its stops at Jabluunec and Novograd-Volinski-I stations. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of human rights in Ukraine, namely, the baseless detention of the accused Borislavski Pavel Bronislavovich in the Lviv detention centre without the provision of adequate medical care. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Information and Communications, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information on the disconnection of the frequency of the second channel of the National Radio and Radio Broadcasting. Nina Yužanina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the repayment of debt to road industry, which results in additional budget losses. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of Squire School I-II of the Olszewski School. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to pay off the arrears paid to employees of the Koropska rajautodor branch of the Chernigiv Region Road Service and to hold employees responsible for violating the rights of employees and not to carry out their calculations. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister for urgent measures to ensure that Dnipropetrovsk blood transfusion stations are provided with blood containers to provide appropriate medical care to patients in the area, including those injured from the ATO zone. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Health for the provision of information on the availability of vaccines for planned vaccinations and the responsibility of officials. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the need to take action for the release of Ukrainian seamen, members of the crew of the vessel "AS Castrol", who have been detained in the port of Conakry, Guinea. Alexia Lensky to Henprocuror, Minister of Health, on the urgent use of response measures to prevent the closure or reorganization of the maternity house No. 2 in Kirovograd, which will inevitably result in violations not only of the labour rights of the collective but also of the constitutional rights and social guarantees of the inhabitants of the whole of Kirovgrad. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to implement the constitutional rights and social guarantees of the Kosovo military personnel who took direct part in the ATO and to grant ownership within the framework of the free privatization rules set out in article 121 of the Land Code of Ukraine of 2 hectares for the conduct of private agriculture and the non-commitment of costs for the development of the land project. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the non-admission of local elections in 2015 in Bila Church. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the construction of R-17 in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Oleg Dmitrenk to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on baseless criminal prosecution by law enforcement officials of the Montenegrin Regional Office of the State Specialised Institution "The State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing" (repeated). Edward Matviychuk to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need to take effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa to the brochure Akademic Glusko, 6-B on the need for proper execution of the court's decision and the return of Wimpel 6 housing and construction cooperative to the money that was currently in the public stock company Imexbank, which is currently in the phase of liquidation for work and replacement of sewers and heating pipes. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Henprocuratura, Odessa ODA, Odessa City Council on the need to take effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the Primorski District of Odessa on the need for detailed consideration of the completion of the socio-cultural infrastructure project — a public education school at Odessa, Marshall Govorov Street, 8. Igor Vasjunika to Lviv City Head on the inaction of the Lviv City Council on the implementation of architectural and building control in Lviv. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Television Committee and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore Ukrainian radio in temporarily occupied areas. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Žitomirski ODA on the payment of salaries to employees of the offices of the Andrušev Region No. 2 of the State Enterprise "Korostišivski Spirit Kombinate" of Žitomir Region. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Health on a critical situation with vaccination of babies in Ukraine Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts to sanatoriums and health facilities located in the territory of the Sergiy Village Council of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov region of the Odessa region, for the temporary residence of citizens displaced from the temporarily occupied territory and the area of the conduct of the ATO. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to ensure the timely provision of solid fuel to the population and budget institutions of the Odessa region. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Social Policy for the Admission of a Citizen, who was forcibly taken to work in Germany in 1944, was the victim of Nazi persecution. Oxana Siroid to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the criminalization of leaders of armed gangs and leaders of the Russian Federation Armed Forces who participated in the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine. Dmitra Sphenov and Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of corruption in the Odessa Customs of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Dmitra Sphenov and Igor Shurma to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, heads of the ODA on establishing the legality of the actions of officials of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service Authority. Oksana Sold to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to ensure the ability of the Kharkiv Tractor Factory called Ordjonikidze to register tax notes in the VAT electronic administration system. Jaroslava Dubnević, acting as commander of the National Guard of Ukraine for the provision of security for members of the dead Ukrainian National Guard, during direct participation in the ATO, social benefits, and guarantees. Jaroslava Dubenevich to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the establishment of a permanent disability group for participants in combat when the limbs and irreversible violations of the functions of organs and systems of the body are lost. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to conduct auctions for the sale of crude oil, gas condensate of its own production and scrapped gas. Alexander Dehtirczuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the issue of paying compensation to individuals who are entrepreneurs within the average wage for employees appointed to military service for the recruitment call for a special period. Igor Popov to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the proper accounting and payment of the scientific pension according to current legislation. Igora Lucenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of law enforcement in investigations into illegal construction on the street of Zvirinecki, 72 in Kiev. Igora Lucenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an objective investigation into the criminal inaction of law enforcement officials who carried out public order around the Ukrainian Supreme Council on August 31, 2015. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the need for a comprehensive review of Victor Szczerbina's appeal for a long-term failure to execute a decision on renewal at work. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the privatisation of the Public Shareholder Society "State Land Bank". Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunded state of financing of the Centre for Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities "Jerelo Hope" in Korstoń County. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the actions and omissions of the Ukrainian government, which have led to a significant decline in the level of national adoption and the placement of orphans and children deprived of parental care in the family form of education and the destruction of successful reform in this area. Oleg Osuhovski to Henprocuror of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Human Rights and Citizens. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the head of the High Council of Justice for the Opening of Disciplinary Conduct. Mr. Holubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNBO, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to prevent the destruction of physical education in higher educational institutions of all levels, which undermines Ukraine's national security and security, prevents further deterioration of the health status of the young generation. Mr. Holubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the constitutional rights of the inhabitants of Kiev, Žitomirsk, Vinnitsky, Odes region on free movement, the renewal of the Kiev-Odessa train, the non-admission of further destruction of jobs, the improvement of the economic status of the railway sector. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the state of preparation for the combined energy system of Ukraine for the heating season and coal security of the country’s TENs. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the free supply of medicines Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of funds for the purchase of a resanimobile to the Mirgorod Central District Hospital of the Poltava Region. Olega Lalashka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on taking urgent action to investigate the facts of corruption by President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine, published by the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Anton Chernushenko. Olega Lalashka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Henprocurorate, on urgent measures to restore and conduct a proper investigation into criminal cases involving the Society with limited responsibility of the Pobucian Combined. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Self-Governmental Authority of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Temporaryly Acting Head of the Right District in Kiev, State Administration, to review the collective appeal of citizens and to carry out capital repairs of the Milutenka Gymnasium, 14th District of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Self-Governmental Authority of the Kyiv City Public Administration, temporarily acting as Head of the Right District District in Kiev for the consideration of the collective appeal of citizens and the use of necessary measures in connection with the emergency condition of balconies in a residential building on the street of Mateyuk, 7 in the Right District of Kiev. Roman Semenha to the Kharkiv City Head for the identification and approval of the actual water and water standards for the Kharkiv Housing Fund. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Czernovetsk ODA on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to finance the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the town of Viznice Czerniewec Region. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the need for urgent measures to continue financing the construction of two bridges in the village of Rostoki of the Czernovets region and the road between them. Tetjani Donec to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of copies of the findings of the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensic Experts. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the conduct of a criminogenic examination of the situation in the city of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk. Mikhail Golovka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on providing information on the construction of the city of Ternopil district. Dear fellow MPs, with your permission, I will pass on the word of Oksani Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u126	Yes, here we go. Gregory of Times to the Chernovetske City Head about the land allocation and its placement under the children’s playground in the Ashgabaski Street area in Chernivci. Bogdan Dubnević, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the implementation of the Energy Conservation Programme for the People of Lviv, 2013-2016. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Lviv City Head for ensuring unhindered access to people with disabilities and few mobile population groups in Lviv. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the collection and payment of pensions to former seniors and representatives of the Yanukovic regime. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on increasing the power consumption limit for nuclear power stations. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the water supply in the garden building of the city of Neteshin Hmelnick. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the use of measures to repay the debt owed to the villagers for their milk. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to prevent the occurrence of an ecologically hazardous situation in the village of Shisaka Poltava region due to the disruption of the work of chemical seed companies. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the exercise of control over the use of land of state property, which is on the right of permanent use at the Winnick National Agrarian University. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on personal control of the issue of competitive selection and the appointment of the Director-General of the State Enterprise, Borispol International Airport. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on unauthorized interference and blocking the work of Mikita's citizens' websites and mobile phones. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the purpose of making specifics available to certain articles of the budget request. Maxime Chicken to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of residential services in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Bezbach and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding dissatisfaction with the question of the need for a thorough study of the circumstances and the purpose of the creation of the Chernobyl Biosphere Reserve in the territory of the alienation zone. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine foresaw in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 the cost of completing the construction of a perinatal centre in the Montenegrin region. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for damages to the state of 19 million dollars by officials of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine. Victoria Vojtsicka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Restructuring of Tax Debt by Ukrnafta Public Shareholders. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of providing school textbooks for students in the 4-7 classes. Alexander Dombrovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Vinnitsk Region, First Deputy Director of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region for the full payment of Peter the Jury, as a child of war, an unpaid 30% increase in pension provided for in article 6 of the Law on Social Protection of Children of War, from 8 September 2010 until the end of the right to receive a higher pension. Alexander Dombrovski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Vinnitsk Region, First Deputy Chief of Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region, Renting Company of the “Mijspodarska mechanized transport column of Obogrorada” for the execution of the judgement of the court, which gained legal power to issue work books to citizens of Alexandr Hwatkov, Ivan Pushishina and Anatolia Čemes. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of teachers and students of the Smilian Special School of the I-II. Sergey Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the unsatisfying state of the road of national importance N-01 Kiev-Znamjanka. Igora Artushenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the free transfer of confiscated property. Igora Artyushenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about taxes, assemblies, duties and other payments. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the release from the country is the resident of the border village Drozdinj of the region of Rokinj. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal alienation of the educational and manufacturing facilities of the school No.2 of Novoyavorysk Lvivsk district by the former Head of the Yavorów Education Department of Baby and the school director. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine on the theft of land on the banks of the Yavorov Lake. Jury Levchenka to the Head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the protection of the rights and interests of residents of the individual residences of the Darnitsky district of Kyiv in the construction of the Public Shareholder Society of the Holding Company Kyivmiskbud, a large apartment building between the streets of Armenian, 8/127 and Kharkiv highway, 244, which is in grave violation of the standards of construction and well-being. Jury Levchenk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the immediate release of Kuzovkin from office of the Prosecutor-General of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, who in the official documents challenged the election of hundreds of thousands of voters who voted in favour of the national deputies of Ukraine Oleg Musia, Yuri Levchenka, Andrija Illienka, Igor Luzenka, Oleg Osukhovsky, Yuri Bublik, Alexander Marchenka, Mikhail Golovka and Leonida Yemen, who had committed an act that discredited the authorities of the Public Prosecutor and undermined the authority of the legislative body of the State. Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, on the need to investigate the abuse of office as Head of the Lviv Regional Forestry and Hunting Administration. Stanislaw Berezkin to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of the debt from salary payments to the employees of the Geological Expeditional Expedition No. 37 of the Kirovgeology Criminal Enterprise. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuk, Ledovsky, Boyko) to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the payment of one - time financial assistance to family members killed during the ATO military service. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuk, Ledovsky, Boyko) to serve as Head of the General Directorate of the Ministry of State and Government in the Kyiv Region for the provision of a land plot for the conduct of a personal farm for a family killed in the ATO. Groups of National Deputies (Ledovians, Stasuka, Boyko) to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the status of a participant in hostilities. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the Commission from the liquidation of the State Investment Agency and the administration of national projects. Fedor Negoy to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Inaction of Officials of the Herson District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine in conducting State-owned solid fuel (coal) inspections in the Hersonian region. Victoria Sumar to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the activities of the First Orthodox Parachute School of the Name of Cesarevich Alexia. Constantine Jarinić, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, heads of the Kirovograd Regional Government Administration for Environmental Information, Environmental Safety, Measures to Improve It in the Kirovograd Region, Verification of Business Compliance with Environmental and Sanitary Standards, Waste Laws Taking into account Safety Requirements for Human Health and the Environment. Sergija Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible violation of anti-corruption legislation by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Volodymirirovna Timoshenko. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of a subsidy for the construction of the road. Alexander Abdullin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure to take appropriate measures to respond to complaints by members of the Cherka District Attorney’s Office regarding the work of Teleženko Antonina Vasilovna, who was beaten by police officers at the headquarters of the Lisian District Department of Internal Affairs. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a balanced redistribution of educational subsidies from the State budget to the local budgets in 2015 on the administrative and territorial units of the Luhansk region on the basis of information on the actual number of students who moved between the areas of the region. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the delay in the appointment of the head of the Novomikolai District State Administration of Zaporez Region. Panels of National Deputies (Honcherenka, Kudlaenka, Golubova) to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Protection, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to restore confidence in the law enforcement system of Ukraine and to carry out investigations into the causes of illegal drug abuse. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on problems with the South West Railway transport connection. Irina Frez to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the Intergovernmental Ukrainian-German Commission on the affairs of the German minority in Ukraine. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the official investigation of the activities of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Maxime Chicken to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the violation of the Judge of the Babushkin District Court of the City of Dnipropetrovska Law of Ukraine on the judiciary and status of judges. Mikhail Papiev to the military prosecutor of the Central Region of Ukraine for an objective investigation into the deaths of military officer Racuk Maksim Anatoliyovich. Mikhail Papiev to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Department of Public Sanitary Epidemiology in the Kyiv Region, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region, located in the village of Mala Antonovka, in the district of Kyiv. Groups of National Deputies (Dubinina, Didic and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the requirement for clarification by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine of the substance, international legal status and consequences of agreements under the "Minish" and "Paris" treaties. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of tax and financial burden on the industry of the institutions in order to preserve state-owned research, design, exploration and other organizations of the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine and to prevent their artificial bankruptcy and privatization at no cost. Alexander Villukla to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, who is responsible for Dnipropetrovsk City Head’s responsibility to ensure that urgent action is taken to address the socially significant issues of the Lenin district of Dnipropetrovska, which are not resolved by local authorities and have a criminal component for a long time. Anton Herashchenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Bank of Ukrgazbank for the failure to provide advice and information at the legitimate request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Vadim Nesterenka to the head of the High Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of effective law by the judge of the Krasnogvard district court of Dnipropetrovska Victoria Samsonova. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on energy-efficient projects in the region of Cherniewec. Vasil Guljova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in connection with the violation of a number of Ukrainian laws in the adoption of the decision by the Executive Committee of the Ilchiv City Council and the indigent consideration of the MP's appeal by the municipal company "Missic Management of Housing and Utilities" of the Ilchiv City Council. Mikoli Kadikala to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on land and information provision for territorial communities in the formation of municipal property on land and land use management. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Aviation Service for the gross violations of the Ukrainian Air Code and the aviation rules of Ukraine as ex-pilot of the Ukrainian State Aviation Service. Vladimir Ariev to Kiev’s city head on the use of measures to eliminate unauthorized traffic stops and to stop systematic violations by drivers of the rules of stopping and parking at the intersection of the avenue of Akademic Palladin and Uborevich near the train station. Tarasa Batenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the position occupied by the Head of Education of the Zoločov District State Administration of the Lviv Region of Bartoshík Vladimir Zinovič. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to finish the questions because they are stockpiling. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andrija Žurzija to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the removal by the employees of the Regional Council of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev and the Procurator's Office of the Holy District of Kyiv to the owners and to transfer them to the use of other persons. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on illegal actions regarding the journalists of the "Scheme" Radio Freedom of Michael Tkača and Kiril Lazarevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Victor Krivenk to the minister of finance of Ukraine, head of the Mikolai District State Administration for the abuse of the community enterprises of Mikolai. Mikoli Skorak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal conduct of the leadership of the Odessa District Authority of Odessa and the obstruction of the political party's election campaign. Mikoli Skorika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the Odessa District of Court Decisions concerning payments to citizens who have been classified as children of war. Ruslan Solvar to the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Kyiv region, the State Enterprise "Kyivsk Scientific Research and Project Institute of the Land" on the facts of unwarranted delay in documenting the right of ownership of land by residents of the village of the town of Kožanka in the region of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Timoshenko, Krulka and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the violation of the right of the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Savchenko Hope to receive information on direct participation in the ATO. Vasil Janicky to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the solution to the question of the restoration of the work of cuneiform groups in the village of the town-type Rokitna Rivna district. Alexia Scripnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Ukraine's economic and social development forecasting and programming documents and the state of implementation of science, technology and innovation priorities. Alexia Screepnik to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on State Target Programmes Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of employment by persons who voluntarily enter the military service on a contract during a special period. Oleg Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of the Department of Public Prosecutions of Kiev in the investigation of criminal conduct No.420151000800037 concerning the inspector of the materials processing sector of the DAI Department of the Holy See District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Kiev, Captain of the Veligorsky militia, who committed the criminal offence of Frolov, as foreseen in section 2 of article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to stop the liquidation of the Vatutin City Department of Justice in the Cherkas region. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of benefits to participants in hostilities and their children in accordance with the Ukrainian Act. The ground of Zagreb to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the failure of Ukraine's State Budget by avoiding customs payments from being paid in the course of import operations into the customs territory of Ukraine. The ground of Zagreb to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the establishment and cessation of the smuggling of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine. Andrija Shinkovič to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Hmelnickoblanergo for the replacement of power lines. Andrija Shinkovič to the Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration on the requirement of systematic State aid to ATO participants in the Hmelnicka region and their families. Mary Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen the Government's cooperation with international humanitarian organizations. Vladislava Doub to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the reasons for the delay in investigating the events of the Declaration of Dignity that took place in Cherkasa. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of arrears on salary to staff in the education sector of the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the renewal of the South West Railway Corop train station. Vadim Denisenk to the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court for the restoration of access to justice and the qualification of disputes over the cancellation of tax returns as property disputes. John Sporish to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the signs of the Society's fraudulent actions with limited liability, the Leasing Company Etalon. John Sporish to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Stabilising of Price Policy in the Milk Market and the need to increase its purchase price. Victoria Vojtsiecki to the head of the Poltava District Council, Head of the Commission on Ecology and Environmental Management of the Poltava District Council on the consent of the Poltava District Council to grant TV "Angro Invest" special permits for the development of oil and gas fields without auctioning. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the drafting of railway tickets in the national language. Jury Derevjanka to the Head of Government of the Public Shareholders' Association “The Carpathian Blanche” on the development of a detailed plan for the construction, modernization and reconstruction of electrical stations and networks and energy equipment in the Ivano-Frankiv region for 2015-2020 years. Juriya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the compatibility of natural gas with European standards. Sergey Kiwalova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the use of a package of measures to enhance the tourist attraction and development of the city of Odessa, the reconstruction of the historic part of the city, and the preservation of architectural monuments. Groups of National Deputies (Melnika, Tomenka, Musaka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the occupied position of the Director of the Republic's Higher School of Physical Culture. Sergija Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the course of criminal investigation in relation to the judges of the Pecher District Court of Kiev Kiyeva, Vuka, Tsarevich, the consent to the detention and detention (under guard) granted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 March 2015. Sergija Vlasenka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of corruption in the execution of payments to the Ministry of Justice for the execution of the European Court of Human Rights (application No.23465/03 of 25 July 2013) for payment by the State of Ukraine to the company Agrocomplex 27000000 (twenty-seven million) euro. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heratchenko, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Finance of Ukraine, on the need for the provision of expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine for the repair of automobiles in the Cherkas region. Andrija Lozov to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the provision of information. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the size of the staff of the procurator's office, article 81 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on ensuring full, prompt and impartial investigation of criminal conduct by the fact that fraud is being acquired through the management of the Credit Association of Pensioners of Ukraine at the expense of investors. Jurya Bereza to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the capital repair of the pedestrian bridge that passes through railway lines in the city of Petihatka. Jurya Bereza to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation in the administration of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Alexander Nechayeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure objective investigation of the facts of the obstacles to the exercise of electoral law, the illegal use of the designation of the mark and the firm name of the printed edition, the violation of the order of conduct of pre-election agitation, the use of media tools, and the order of participation in the information security of elections in the Mikolai district. Anton Heraszczenka to Kiev’s Public Prosecutor’s Office, Ukraine’s Department of Internal Affairs in Kiev, on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal offences involving officials of Kiev’s University of Culture. Oils Bogolithic to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration, Kyiv City Administration, Kyiv District State Administration, Ivano-Frankiv District Government Administration, Zacarpathian District Administration, Zaporozhye District State Administration, Provincial District State Administration, Provincial District State Administration, Kirovo Grad district government administration, Lviv District State Administration, Microlai District State Administration, Provincial District State Administration, Provincial State Administration, Provincial State Administration, Provincial District Administration, Provincial District Government Authority, Provincial District Government Authority, Provincial District State Administration, Provincial District Government Authority, Provincial District Government Authority, Administrative Authority of the State Department of State Administration Alexander Chernenka to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine to determine the professional competence of the College of Judges of the Trial Chamber in criminal matters of Ukraine’s Supreme Special Court on civil and criminal matters. Mr. Alexander Chernenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the rightfulness of service in the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine of the senior OAS-authorised UDSBEZ MU Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrov region of Bilienka Evgen Georgievovich. Hennady Chekita to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the non-derogation of the South Ukrainian National Teachers' University of the Ushin Training Corps No. 8, 9 from Odessa, Fontanska Road 4, and the cessation of any violations of these university funds. Olga Cervakova to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the illegality of returning without consideration of the parliamentary appeal by the Secretary of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, Makarczuk. Dmitry Lubinz to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, State Service of Ukraine on the Legality of the Extraction of Useful Fossils, namely, the Calyline of the Original Origin of the White Balcony, located in the village of Trudov in the Donetsk Region of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Donbasnerprod". Dmitry Lubinz to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, State Service of Ukraine on the Legality of Mining Production, namely, the Calyline of the original "Bila balka", located in the village of Trudové Volnova County of the Donetsk Region, Society with limited responsibility for the "Donbaskeramika NPP", founded by the French company Simplified Shareholder Society "IMEPIC KERAMIK France". Oleg Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the appointment of a foreign language teacher at a pre-school institution to a list of positions granting the right to retirement for years. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the publication of the results of the open competition for the positions of prosecutors, local prosecutors, their first interlocutors and deputies. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding illegal actions and improper reactions to parliamentary appeals by officials of the Solomonian and Shevchenkov District Offices of the GUMWS of Ukraine in Kiev. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. A letter was received from the National MP regarding the response to the MP’s request. The MP's asking for a word. Ask for an hour for a lineup. May I have the floor of the people's deputy? National MP Coopery, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u127	Colleagues, we have the right all of you to discuss and to give a reply to the questions that are being asked. On September 4, 2015, a request was made in the Supreme Council regarding the investigation, intervention and proceedings of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Prashenko Petra Alexiyyovich, and Alexia Filatov, deputy head of the President’s Administration, and the prosecution. I would like to remind you that this request is related. With statements by the former head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev Chernushenko, who indicated that Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko and his subordinate Alexiy Filatov had committed crimes, was put on trial. And this was in certain specific cases: Gongadze's case, which was that Prashenko said not to call as a witness there Lithuania and Kuchma; this was because Prashenko was pressing the court to avoid criminal harassment of his wife's business, a jewelry store; this was because there were raids and attempts to capture the gas business -- there was also pressure. And unfortunately, there is no response to that right now. Although the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine indicated that, after refusing to open criminal proceedings, it would still address these issues as part of existing criminal conduct against Judge Chernushenko. So I think it will be useful now to call as witnesses, in the criminal conduct of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko and Alexia Filatov, deputy head of the President's administration, and this does not violate in any way the President's immunity, nor the parliamentary immunity, and I think that we all have to investigate that, as these criminal cases progress. In particular, I have already filed three claims, at least three of the crimes of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, Igor Konenka, the deputy head of the Peter Prashenko faction. This applies to both the Royal Village and their offshores, Intraco Management, where they wash off $500,000, as they say, on the day of the proceeds stolen from Ukraine and take them out of Ukraine. And unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office hasn't opened any of these applications. I had to go to the Cave District Court, you know what this is. And the Cave District Court yesterday consecrated the use of offshore law enforcement officials. He also confirmed that there was no such thing and did not reveal criminal conduct. I mean, right now we have any law enforcement officer, looking at the experience of the powder can use offshores, avoid paying taxes, and he'll have nothing to do with it. Shame on the authorities!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Before we go to "Variance," I just wanted to pay attention to what's going on in the judicial system, the reform of the judicial system, the reform of the prosecutor's system. I think it's such an open sabotage, and it's probably on the level of all branches of power. If you don't know, I can tell you that even the draft judicial reform that the Constitutional Commission is doing today, and the one that's taken under, let's say, torpedoed by today's judges. So the judges understood their impunity and, as far as I know, they torpedoed even the Venice Commission with appeals to prevent any reform that would allow their release. What's happening with the reform of the prosecutor's office is probably an even greater disgrace. Because not only is the prosecutor’s office resisting reform, but even the Supreme Council has joined in this sabotage and propaganda. With all due respect to the national MPs, yesterday's vote for the board to elect district attorneys and their deputies is just a campaign. Because the participation of politicians in such competitive commissions is simply unacceptable. I don't know what the motives were for the people's deputies. But I would suggest that they withdraw from these compositions of these committees and hold a re-competition to form the composition of these committees. Thank you. And now I'm proposing to sign up for, uh, the "Variance" part. Please, people's deputies, prepare for the recording. Please. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Pressman, team of the Rebirth Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing for the TV and radio audiences. There's no National Deputy Pressman, he's not in the room, the card worked. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I ask you to return to your seats. Regrettably, in view of the inadmissibility of the national MPs and the large number of deputies who are currently on the list, they are not in the hall, but their cards have worked. That's why I'm asking you to sign up again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people's deputies, I'm announcing a recording in "The Miscellaneous." [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not breaking the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, People's Republic of Logwinsky, People's Front. The national deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u129	I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u130	People's deputy Gus. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voice from the hall. All right, don't tear up the session, guys. All right, let's go, guys.]] Mrs. Siroid, you're in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Deputy Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u132	Dear friends, my question concerns important questions. Mr. Leschenko, don't interrupt the session. Please. Let's get out of here. So my question is about Vladimir Volinsky, my constituency. The thing is, we have in Volodymyr a heroic 14 military brigade that lost at the front in the ATO zone about a hundred of its fighters. The essence of the appeal to Mr. Poltorak's Secretary of Defense. We have a 44-bedroom building in Volodymira, which, in principle, has been promised several times this year. First of all, this house is mainly for the military, especially the people on the front who were behind the interests of the Ukrainian state. They promised to build this house in April. They promised to be completed by October 14 until the Day of Protector of Ukraine, the Day of Protection, until the Day of Creation of the UPA. Today we have, we are approaching that date. Unfortunately, though, the cost does not come. So I am very much asking Mr. Poltorak, and not only myself, the leadership of our military brigade, the city chief Peter Saganyuk, the head of the Vladimir Gunczyk district administration, to find the opportunity either by the end of this year, or by a percentage of the 2016 budget to provide for these people. The thing is, there's 14 militia widows in line for the apartments in this house, and there's not one widow. Just a few days ago, I took the voters into my own district in Volodymiro Volin district, and the widow and her mother came to the reception and talked about these things. So I'm asking very much again to find an opportunity in the 2016 budget, if it's not possible this year, to allocate funds for the construction of a 44-bedroom building, where military 14 brigades are to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u133	Thank you. National Deputy Lasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u134	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The important citizens of Ukraine, the esteemed colleagues of the national MPs, the key problem of our country is that the authorities are constantly deceiving, in fact, citizens, is that the authorities are constantly deceiving society. We're being told about the fight against corruption, and in fact, even the American ambassadors are already claiming violent corruption in the prosecutor's office. We're told about siesta. about justice reform, and in fact, you won't find any court where you can find the truth, when you don't have money, if you don't have a hairy hand, or if you don't have a "daddy mom" prosecutor, and so on. We are told about economic reforms, and as a result of these economic reforms, millions of Ukrainian citizens are now impoverished, living worse than beggars. People, pensioners who have worked their whole lives, gone to pieces, made that miserable penny, walked around with their hands stretched out today, because their pension doesn't allow them to survive on an elementary basis, and I'm not talking about buying new shoes or shoes there anymore. So, what does that mean for people? The millions of Ukrainian people who built this country who were going to Midan, who wanted to change the Yanukovic dictatorship, and what did they get in exchange for the Yanukovic dictatorship? They get even worse dictatorships because they say revolutions are designed by romantics and they use the fruits of revolutions of fraud, adventurers, and traitors who betray their country. Today's power is no better than Janukovič's authority, because the most important thing that does not determine today's authority is the question of employment, the ability to live, the question of restoring its own economy, the restoration of the country's own self-preservation. Today’s authorities care for only their own possessions, their own business. They don't think about people who don't know how to feed their families, how to survive them, how to pay them fares, where to find jobs for their young boys and girls they've studied, and they're trading with higher education diplomas in markets. So the policy of the Radical Party, which is now in opposition to power, is clear: first of all, the restoration of national production through job creation is a key task that we will carry out when we come to power. And I'm sure the Radical Party will be in power very soon. And most of all, what we have to do is create jobs. Millions of jobs each year to enable our young, first of all, to earn a living and give birth to children. Most of all, what we have to take care of today is the protection of our pensioners who have deservedly rebuilt the country and today do not need that country. So, respectable citizens, the October 25th election, go and think, think, don't act on lying pictures, don't act on the lies that TV shows you today because.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u135	Ten, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u136	Because you don't have to smell your back again after the election. So support the Radical Party, support our team, and we'll sort it out in our own country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u137	People’s Melniczuk gave the floor to the national deputy Dekhtyarchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u138	Respectable Society! Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154 constituency, Dubenstein. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by the voters of Equality regarding the criminogenic situation that has now taken place in Dublin. In the last period of May-May, there has been a significant increase in the number of thefts of personal property by citizens. For example, in September-Yellow months in the area of Sadova, Dubno, there was a theft from the 21st private house. In the village of Zlina Dubenski district, personal property was stolen overnight in 9 private citizens' homes. A similar situation took place in other towns and villages in the area. There is a situation in the city and the area where the population is very dissatisfied with the professional responsibilities of law enforcement officials. Please make every effort, every effort, to improve the criminogenic situation in Dubenščina. A similar appeal was addressed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the district police. I would also like to draw attention to the situation that has arisen with the financing of the Ddolbonov Clinic, the former Zdolbonov Memorial Hospital of the Iron Road. Today, according to the head of the district council of Mr. Timothychuk, there are only 8 bracelets in the clinic. As a result of the so - called transfer that we have heard today from the minister, the transmission of the railway hospital to the local authorities has resulted in a catastrophic situation with the further funding of the Dolbounian Clinic. Therefore, please take all necessary steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u139	Thank you. National deputy of Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u140	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to inform you about the event that took place last week. This is the General Assembly of the United Nations, where there was a delegation of Ukrainian deputies and, in particular, me. I want to confirm that at this highest rostrum, and especially at this point in the 70th anniversary of this important organization, we confirmed that in terms of Ukraine, it was happening. There's been an annexation, there's been an aggression. But this clearly cannot be called a victory, because outdated mechanisms, outdated UN structures do not allow us as a member, as the founder of this organization, to fight for its territorial integrity and sovereignty. As a delegation, we reminded the world that the UN (this abbreviation) really means the United Nations Organization, the nations that have united around values, around the principles of human life, including human rights and freedoms and, in particular, territorial integrity, the highest values around which human civilization has united. At the same time, we have achieved some results that are important to us as nations. First. On October 15, elections will be held for the United Nations Security Council, where we can become a member of the UN Security Council. The other one. We have joined in an important initiative to restrict the veto of members of the Security Council, which will prevent Russia from actually having an unconditional influence today on all those decisions, on all those processes that are taking place on this important international site. Third. We joined the initiative and received support from countries for the establishment of the International Tribunal for the Full Investigation of the Terrorist Attack on MH-17, which took place in the East of Ukraine. And we will continue to pressure this investigation to take place. Finally, I want to say that yesterday was an important event. I want to inform the same society as one of the co-authors of the National Party Financing Act. This is a great achievement of the new generation of politicians in Parliament. Finally, one of the last countries in Europe, we joined this initiative, which sets out the transparency of funding, which sets powerful sanctions up to a criminal article for violating this law. And which also makes it possible for society as a whole to check the addresses of the victims, to check every penny that was received from the batch, every penny that the batch spent. This is a significant step forward in the fight against political corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u141	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u142	Dear Madam Chairman, dear fellow MPs! Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. I want to address everyone present right now, those who care about the fate of the country, with a serious enough question. A question that, unfortunately, doesn't sound so often in this session room, but a question that concerns many and here our families, many of the citizens of our country. This is a question of the future development of the education and science system of Ukraine. You know that we are ahead of the broad debate and adoption by the MPs of the bills that will determine the further fate of the development of this extremely important system, the adoption of the basic education bill, the Ukrainian Vocational and Technical Education Act and the Science and Technology Act. I am not going to talk now about the importance of adopting this law and about the state in which we are today, unfortunately, our education system. And about the salary of a teacher who, unfortunately, does not respond to any criticism today. And about the material and technical state of many educational institutions. I would like to say that the question of discussing these bills of the future is extremely important. In fact, according to my information, I, for example, even in the case of Native American, more than 90 percent of today’s teachers, those who work in the system, or who are not familiar with the bill, share the basic position. So today I would like to address everyone, honourable deputies. Let's engage the public and the professionals in this period and discuss the basics of this law in the regions so that it can be accepted by society, by educators, by parents. Next position. I would very much like us to insist that the main indicators related to the financing of the sector should be taken into account when calculating the 2016 budget. Today, the minister of education said that only 40 buses were scheduled to be purchased because there was no money. So little is planned for these buses to be purchased from local budgets, and this is not one example. So let us make sure that the law that will be passed does not necessarily have confirmations and finances. I call on everyone to have a broad discussion, to discuss an extremely important topic. Let us work with balance and adopt laws that define for me the future development of one of the strategic sectors of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Babi National Deputy, People's Front. Who? Where's Babi? Passing the word to whom? Alexander Kodolah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u144	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u145	Alexander Kodolah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u146	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Unfortunately, today I was unable to ask the minister of infrastructure. The point is that today the Chernigs are actually cut off by a railway connection from Western Ukraine. That is why national deputies from Montenegro have repeatedly applied to the Ministry of Infrastructure with this proposal, a request to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to Ukrzalznice to solve this problem. Sadly, this question is still unresolved today. Moreover, in the Chernigiv region, in fact, the decommissioning of the Korop train station is determined by the economic relevance of such actions. But since small railway stations are not only commercial, but also related to the development of the area in general, given the administrative and territorial reform, I think we should not rush into such measures so that the newly formed communities, the territorial communities, do not encounter the ruined infrastructure if we can avoid everything today. That's why I'm going to the Ministry of Infrastructure one more time, and I'm going to the Crossroads to take appropriate measures, in accordance with the appeals made by the national deputies from the Chernigian region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u147	Thank you. National MP Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u148	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The Bible contains words that are happy for the truth, for they are the kingdom of the heavens. When this heroic people, who will not destroy anyone and never rise up against the tyranny of Yanukovich, when people went out to Midan, when people were not afraid to fight with the forces, when people put up with the tyranny, then who would have thought it would take a little time and we would see the same again. There has been a clear crystallization of tyranny in the country. Dozens of patriots, war heroes and revolutions are sitting in jail today, sitting under house arrest, and the regime is trying to destroy them. Today, the Moscow invaders who killed our soldiers who shot in the head, who forced the captured heroes to eat the Chevrons, should they be amnesty? And those who in the East, with guns in their hands, defended their people's right to freedom, to independence, to dignity, were thrown by this chocolate-totalitarian regime in prisons. All of us can see clearly that not all political prisoners have been released from the past regime. We can still see that over a year of 17-year-old Gregory Gulwichenko and Elijah Black. They're sitting in jail so far, without any evidence as if they were killing law enforcement at the time. We're seeing today a hero fighter of St. Mary's Battalion Stalker, who was injured both during the Midan events and during the East fighting today, trying to arrest him by arguing that he was allegedly killing law enforcement officers in January 2014 when there was hell of an event here. Consider the accusations against Ukrainian patriots. We see my associate, the cyborg of the Donetsk Airport, Constantine Kriwich, in prison for the fifth month. We see clearly how a number of activists of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association are sitting in jail, particularly one of the leaders of this party, Yuri Orotyuk. Like Medvedzko and Polishchuk, who seem to have killed Ukrainofb Buzin, but there is no evidence base, they are still sitting in jail, even though there is a mortgage. And on September 17, the totalitarian regime of the powder went into agony. Repressions have reached the point of apopheosis. When here, in this hall, which will be disgraced in the ages, in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the Law on Judicial Investigation, a national deputy named Igor Mosiychuk was arrested in violation of the Rules, who was not even given a final word. Then came the Hero of Ukraine, a multi - year - old Soviet politician, Stephen Cloud, who had been arrested for the last time in this room since the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R. And the Cloud mentioned that even the totalitarian Soviet Union then gave the word, and the Dusty regime did not give the word! And when today Igor Mosiyczuk, to whom "Dr. Mengele" is a member of the SBA investigative isolation, Mr. Danilenko refuses medical supervision, is fighting for his life today only after we patriot deputies have actually been able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u149	Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u150	When Janukovic abused people, threw them in prison, and even he did not get to what Dustenko is doing today! When, in fact, Judge Betz, Karaban, Lashevich, Mase.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u151	Thank you very much. People's MP, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u152	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u153	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u154	Fireflies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u155	Gold Ogniewicz, please, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u156	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Zlata Ogniewitch, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Today I would like to address all those who in our country produce intellectual products to all those who produce cultural products, thereby enriching the state treasury of Ukraine. Sadly, though, they receive nothing for their work today. Because in the copyright market, there's a situation where money is not counted. Today, there are about 19 OCs registered in Ukraine, with virtually no more than half of them actually working. What the other half does, I'll tell you, they're stealing money, and for this stolen money they're buying homes and yachts. They're involved in corrupt schemes. This money should be given to creative people who produce cultural products in Ukraine. But there is a way out of this. I propose to create a bill that I am currently working on, number 2943, which foresees that we need to create the status of an authorized OCD organization, and that each of these OCDs will work in its own direction by enriching the bold, counting taxes, creating new jobs, leaving money in the middle of Ukraine instead of bringing out its offshore zones. I also propose to completely eliminate the UAASP, which is the Ukrainian Copyright Agency, which has brought itself together and is discredited in its relations with copyright holders. Because management has completely disrupted the work of the UAASP without being able to take advantage of the monopoly. From 2009 to 2012, the leadership is directly involved in the accidental recalculation of the UAASP of 14 million dollars, which happened to be in Cyprus and then returned to our country of only 14 million to 2 million dollars. Other money was stolen, and they were hanging in the air. WAASP is a cancer tumor for today and the main pain of all those who create intellectual and creative products. I urge everyone to support, at last, the artists of Ukraine, at last, that we develop a culture with you, because without culture there will be no Ukrainian nation, because when you mention culture, everything will be ruined and it will be too late to do it all. So I urge everyone to support yet my Bill 2943 does not oppose the authorities on their part. Because the people who are resisting me right now are making me suspect that they're involved in corruption schemes. So what I'm going to tell you is that you're so used to corruption. You're so used to looking for benefits in every bill just for your pockets. You are so used to supporting yourself that you forget about Ukrainian society and Ukrainian culture. Ukraine has something to be proud of. Let's help them do it. For Ukraine and for its cultural future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u157	Thank you. National Deputy Alexeyev, Igor Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u158	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Igor Alexeyev, People's Front. You know, we're talking about corruption on the air from this high rostrum in the parliamentary room, the imperfections of the judicial system. It really is. The judicial system is extremely corrupt, extremely bureaucratic. And in this regard, I would like to stop only on a separate element that relates to the judicial system -- this is a matter of enforcement. Because you know that even the most legal decision is not worth the paper if it hasn't been implemented in years. In Ukraine, court decisions are extremely difficult. By the end of the year, more than 3 million failed court decisions. Such a situation is objective. affects, negatives and trusts in the judicial system, and this is due to Ukraine's failure to comply with judicial decisions by the number of sad leaders on the number of appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, yesterday Parliament, I am convinced, has taken an extremely responsible, extremely important step – a step towards reforming the implementation of court decisions. Yesterday, we jointly voted on the basis of two bills that start a radical reform of the executive service. Laws developed jointly by experts who worked together with governments, together with national MPs, provide for the introduction of private executives and the introduction of a mixed system of enforcement of court decisions. Now, I want to correct those myths that were happening in this session hall yesterday that we're actually introducing collectors. That's not true at all. The legislation provides a number of factors, and legislation provides for a number of obstacles so that the executives do not abuse their rights, that the performers carried out their tasks, and according to the law, according to established procedures. What these bills provide. This is the maximum automation of the performers. This is also the introduction of an electronic debt register. This is the removal of the bureaucratic barriers that are now in the current legislation that are causing, including the abuse of the actions of government contractors. I urge everyone to translate the discussion into working groups that will work on these bills. There are already a number of proposals, a number of comments that will allow these bills to be further improved so that we can go out after a three-week recess to vote on extremely important bills for the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u159	Thank you. The national deputy Sidorovich gave the floor to the national deputy, Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u160	Thank you, colleagues. Actually, I'd like to talk to you about what happened in Parliament this week. Before the national MPs sent themselves away for three weeks of electoral vacations, for perhaps for someone the most important city elections are what is happening today in the country, we have taken a number of legislative initiatives. In particular, legislative initiatives involving a mythical visa-free regime. And by covering up this mythical visa-free regime, in fact, yesterday the Parliament in the first reading went through, I think, criminal for the common people and for the business of the laws. In particular, the Law on Special Seizures and Detention during Special Seizure. This law directly violates human rights. First of all, it does not foresee any possibility for people to defend their rights. That is, people who will confiscate property through courts and court decisions will not even be able to present their interests in court. They will have no right to give any evidence or claim the legality of this property and the possibility of its preservation. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's These laws, in fact, allow law enforcement authorities to push and raid people. And that went through Parliament yesterday in the first reading. In addition to continuing the work of Parliament, committees were adopted and approved, which would be responsible for the selection of local prosecutors. First of all, these commissions have policies that, in principle, conflict with the very principle of direct open competition. So this is a political influence on the selection of prosecutors. Moreover, today's competition completely violates the Regulations on this competition and the Procurator's Law because (a) it's closed; (b) for the competition people are not allowed to have a prosecutor's internship but are lawyers; and thirdly, none of us see the results of the tests. We don't know who's actually going to be allowed to interview today, which is a direct violation of an independent competition. And last of all, I want to address the national MPs: gentlemen, at last we have to be responsible for the laws that we are voting for. You have to start reading them because most MPs don't even understand the risks they're taking, the laws they're voting for. Finally, I would like to urge you to stop voting for a reduced procedure, to consider the laws in detail, to analyse and to take responsibility for the laws you are voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u161	Thank you. National MP Andrey Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u162	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, I really didn't want to talk about it, but I can't help but talk about it. Since I remember the times of the Yanukovich regime, I remember the political repression and persecution that took place at that time. And unfortunately, unfortunately, a year and a half after Midan's victory, we can see that no criminal of the Yanukovic regime has ever sat down, and with that power, it's obviously no longer sitting down, it's clear. Unless they're sitting in Parliament. And they will be planting exclusively those who have their positions, who have their opinions, who stand up for the very ideals of the same Maidan. And you know, today political persecution has already gone into the form of "theatrics of absurdity," because aside from those people who, for example, are sitting among the freemen right now, it's Jurko Orotyuk, and other of our guys who are now in prison, now the authorities have started to use this very interesting method -- these are 24-hour house arrests. And now they're referring to a huge number of people who are directly involved in the Freedom electoral campaign. I mean, in principle, there's a stake on paralyzing our electoral campaign at all. For example, Igor Sabiy, head of the Kiev district organization, first in the list of the Kyiv District Council, received a day - to - day house arrest. Constantine Vasilec, first number on the Odessa District Council and one of the leaders of Liberty Odessa, day-to-day house arrest. And by the way, he and Odessa were also joined by the Gromov Globe and Alexander Stankov, who is generally the warrior of the ATO and the war hero, as well as him, not even under house arrest, he was put in jail and mortgaged with over 400,000 dollars. So where does an ATO veteran, who fought for a year, now have no job, where does he get that kind of money? But the authorities seem to be making such bets. The sister-in-law of Igor, who now goes to the mayor of Kharkiv, is also under constant control. Leon's Edward, who's coming. The head of our Carpathian organization, where Uzhgrad is running, is doing the same. So there's actually an attempt to paralyze all of our pre-election activities. This is an obvious political order, an obvious bet on closing our mouths, not allowing us to participate in the elections. And I would also like to say that society is, of course, indignant about everyone and the situation that is now going on around the continuation of the stay under the watch of Igor Mosiyczuk, because he obviously has very major health problems, obviously he needs quality treatment right now. And I understand, he is, there is, and so on, yes, there must be an investigation, but today he is not found guilty. He's just suspicious today. Hence, many national deputies have taken him into custody, including all the volunteers, to allow him to be treated normally, not to be imprisoned, for apparently he is not going anywhere and apparently has major health problems. Hence, he should be given normal care, normal treatment, and not permanent, day - to - day care. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u163	Thank you. National MP Oleg Musei, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u164	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to ask all the voters who will come to vote for local authority on October 25 to make a conscious choice. Not so conscious of the choice they bought in the elections to the Supreme Council, voting for all sorts of political apherists, who, from 22 percent in six months, pushed to zero and continue to rob the Ukrainian people. I would like to urge everyone to give the opportunity to the new political forces and the new political parties. Don't believe these dyed-up former regions, these colored former frontalists, who are now re-painted into all of the likely rating powers that they think are overpowered by political forces like the Peter Prashenko Block, the Fatherland type of other political forces where there are the same personalities from year to year. I have a unique situation in my constituency of Sokal, Red City and Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. It turns out that such political power as the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists over the past 10 years has voted in unison with the Party of Regions, and in Western Ukraine continues to present itself as a Ukrainian nationalist power, and remains essentially this thieving power, against which the two Mayans have already stood. People, make a conscious choice. You're going to be very dependent on what you're going to get in the next place. I'm joining the new political power, the political side of this new political power, called "National Control." And I can assure you, my constituencies in the district, that those people who will go with People's Control and participate in the elections, these are new, completely unspotted political faces. So I urge you to make the right and conscious choice in the upcoming October 25th elections. Other questions. In my district, there continues to be a shameful situation that the Ministry of Energy has absolutely not controlled in terms of the collapse and privatization of the coal sector. You know, unfortunately, the government has failed to implement the Coalition Agreement in terms of the annual reduction of only 20 percent of carbon support. And today, 11 National Deputies, members of the Interfractional Union "Protect the Coal Branch" have made appropriate changes to the State Budget, which will provide, in these changes, a return to those commitments that are set forth in the Coalition Agreement. 1.8 billion dollars we're asking for this year's $30 billion government budget overrun. So I call on all the national MPs to support this positive initiative and to give the coal sector a chance throughout Ukraine, including my own district.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u165	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u166	Thank you all for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u167	Thank you. People's deputy Gus. None. National MP Lušnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u168	Good day, dear Ukrainian people, presiding lady, fellow national deputies. On January 1, 2016 in Ukraine, we open Pandora's box. The moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends. Taking into account the world situation today, researchers at Oxford University in their studies have said that during 2015-30, world agriculture should produce food twice as much. Countries such as China are renting land in Mexico, Brazil, Kazakhstan, and Angola to meet the needs of the population. What does the Ukrainian black man expect today? Dear colleagues, the ships with the currency stand to have us open this box. Who will buy our land? Will the Ukrainians buy it? Maybe. But today there is a big problem with food. And if we don't want our Ukraine to become a raw addition to any wealthy state, we have to stop it and continue the moratorium on selling land as a minimum for 10 years. To teach generations of Ukrainians, teach them to love the earth so that they can love their Ukrainian land and work on it with dignity. I have made an official parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine for speeding up the introduction as a necessary law to continue the moratorium on land sales. But was there anyone today to vote on it? No, it's not. Dear National Deputies! I ask you, my colleague, that we do not allow this Supreme Council to commit this crime, which will not forgive us society and Ukraine. So please support me in this direction so that we can continue the moratorium on the sale of land for an agricultural assignment for 10 years, working together on the Earth Code. Dear colleagues, we have a code for every committee, as a member of the agrarian committee, at least one amendment per plenary week. Is that possible? No, it's not. That is why we have a great responsibility. Please, please don't let this happen. Let the land be Ukrainian, our land. And let our children work on it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u169	Thank you. People's MP Dennis Silantiev, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u170	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lazko. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Today, I would like to draw your attention to a very important topic that is quite closed, including for journalists. This is about a system of social insurance for the population of Ukraine. I have studied this subject, so I share some conclusions with you. In the world, social security costs are a powerful or not the only, internal financial and investment resource that is so lacking in the Ukrainian economy. Judge for yourself. To date, financial resources in the amount of over 300 billion dollars that are not included in the State budget of Ukraine, provided they are used effectively, can be a real alternative to external loans that we will also have to pay back. In Europe and in the world, social insurance funds, including pension funds, are the most powerful investors in the development of social infrastructure, and they own a large bank of agricultural land, which is leased and made extra money for their insured persons. The old, falcon approaches to fund management, the lack of transparency of procedures, the lack of new technologies and, as a result, the purposeless use of the funds of the Pension and Social Insurance Fund over the past years, amounting to about 100 billion dollars a year, which could have been used for children’s and not just children’s health, reconstruction and construction of social infrastructure. I'm sure when we create an effective management system, in the area of social insurance, we'll have a very powerful reserve to make the load on. For. We're going to be able to pull wages out of the shadows. Let's move on. Fund management system. The management of the funds is carried out on a tripartite basis by employers, trade unions, and the state. It is necessary to reload the organ composition nationally. Management of the Social Insurance Fund and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Today, from the employer’s side to the fund’s governing bodies, there are still delegated persons who are the closest to the oligarchus of the Yanukovic regime. The situation with trade unions is similar. What innovation and reforms in the social insurance world can we talk about in general? Thus, the Radical Party faction demands that the authorities return to the responsibility of ensuring the constitutional right of citizens to social protection. The most transparent way to finance the costs of providing material security, insurance, and social services to insured persons. Stopping criminal activity in the social insurance system. Attraction to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u171	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u172	to the criminal responsibility of the guilty. Indeed, reorganizations, not redistribution of the sphere of influence in the social insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u173	Thank you. I continue to hold meetings until the day-to-day discussion is concluded in the section "Variance." There is no National Deputy Bobov. National MP Matkovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today was a talk about privatization and I would like to express my position as Secretary of the Economic Policy Committee. In fact, it's quite simple, without the Effective Owners Act, there's nothing to consider even issues such as privatization, and there's a point to that. Next. A visit to Parliament today, and this situation has taken place today. Mr. Chairman, I would like to do one thing: on the Supreme Council website, explain who was registered today, whose cards were registered when the deputies were registered. And the same painting that voted in the signal vote and put these two things together. And we'll all see clearly, our voters will see, the people of Ukraine will see who is coming here to put the card or still walk to work here. I would like to devote a major part of my speech to the law, 2406, where today, Andrew Antonishtak asked the government a question, namely, to the Ministry of Finance. If we worked out this law clearly, we all voted for it. And the Ministry of Finance has proposed to the President that it be amended to read: "From the 750-fold minimum of living, this is today's payment for our fallen heroes, it's 900 out of a thousand dollars, it's proposed to set a fixed amount of 700,000 dollars," which is what it is. This is if a person is killed to pay 700,000 dollars, and if a person becomes an invalid I group, the P group in the inflation process will pay us more than 700,000 dollars. Please, Ministry of Finance, recommend to the President of Ukraine that you bring in normal things that you do, that you set up the President. I very much hope that such steps will no longer be taken by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u175	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Today I made an open appeal to the President of Ukraine and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine as head of the Committee on Industrial Policy, as a substitute for the leader of the Radical Party of Economic Policy to change the economic and monetary policy of the State. That policy, which had been pursued by the previous government, which unfortunately continues with existing authority, had led Ukraine to an economic catastrophe. In the past 25 years, there have been only five countries in the world whose economies have declined. First among these countries is Ukraine. Ukraine’s real GDP declined by 35 percent. Imagine that! Meanwhile, China’s economy has grown tenfold! This is totally unacceptable. Such an unprecedented economic downturn, it continues today. In fact, Ukraine is now in a state of economic depression. You look at all the economic indicators. The IMF and the World Bank forecast after this year is a 12 per cent drop in GDP. You look at unemployment. Let's get some new records. Nearly 2 million unemployed already! You look at the emigration. When more than 400,000 Ukrainians left Poland in the first half of 2015! We're losing the most valuable thing today. We lose the talented and industrious hands of Ukrainians who go abroad to seek a better destiny. How their families are ruining the economy of other countries! How does the authorities react? How does the authorities react?Oh, my God! What are the priorities of authority? Selling out that government property that's left or what else to do? Today, the authorities have a primary concern, and this is the principle of the Radical Party's requirement to create new jobs, to overcome unemployment. So that people don't run abroad, so they don't get hired. The other one. It's an increase in national production and an increase in exports of finished products, not just raw materials, as is happening today. Third. This is the support of a national manufacturer. We don't need to tighten our belts today, we don't need to make credit or high taxes today, but today we need a radical tax reform -- reduce tax pressure, we need to get the economy out of the shadows, we need to ensure that the real economy is credited where the finished product is produced. In order for the Ukrainians to find themselves in their home country, so that families can be whole, so that we can create prosperity here. Only one example is found in the case of Lviv. Why is the average wage in Lviv 5 times less than in Cracow? Tourism is worse? No, it's not. I'll tell you. Because industrial production in Lviv is 1 billion euros and in Cracow almost 7 billion euros. So the answer is the revival of industry, that's the way to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u176	Thank you. National MP Timish gave the floor to the national deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u177	Thank you, Mr. Gregory. Dear colleagues, I have also analyzed our week, which, especially yesterday, many colleagues called "the week of historic decisions." It was a fantastic mystery to me. I tried to understand that we voted historic yesterday. And I have come to realize that for so many people, such an ephemeral word about visa-free entry and exit means so much. It means less to me because our government officials, who own two or four passports, mean in principle it's not very interesting to them, but for a lot of Ukrainians, soon a visa-free entry and exit will also be uninterested, unless there's no money, and there's no pay and there's no pension. So I think we'd have to talk more about not what we're interested in on such a global scale, but what we're interested in on a specific scale. I'd like to say a few words about the simple Ukrainian who survives today. First position. We're happy to hear that they're going to retire, pay 13 to 17 percent. If you're dating people, so-called budgeters, and this is the basis of the Ukrainian state, I'm dating them. Now Minfin has been giving indicators, for example, in some businesses, in establishments, in the Ministry of Culture an increase of 5 percent, in some, by 7 percent. And people say, well, you said 17 to 18 percent, and what about 5 percent? So my requirement is, well, we're in control, and of course, to the government. Guys, hold on to your word. If you find that the increase in pensions, wages are 13 percent and 17 percent, you can control them and raise them to that amount. There is a problem with the recalculation of pensions. So it turns out that, in principle, part of the categories of pensioners who worked the most, they don't have that pension. And it only goes up in those who had a minimum, and actually those who didn't work that much. And there's a great injustice that turns out that those people who worked all the time, we don't date them. Another very important problem. We also made her historic decision on the first reading as if we had fixed it, but we didn’t decide anything. I mean, what people do with tariffs. And here are my colleagues, particularly Jaroslav Dubnevich and Oksana Jurinec, and we are 95 other deputies who supported this initiative. We're talking about local stuff. This is especially true in rural areas. Guys, let's do a social tax on 200 cubic meters of gas, make at least 400 cubic meters so that people can understand how to winter. And we're going to keep moving step by step in the direction of order in the own gas market, over the correctness of the calculations and ensuring a normal situation with an adequate tariff when creating jobs, increasing pensions and wages. So I'm convinced that the work of the government and the parliament should still be directed at ordinary Ukrainians who have been forgotten. Because they don't have another state to live in. Therefore, friends, we support the simple Ukrainian and support Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u178	Thank you. The People's Deputy Boyko gave the floor to the People's Deputy Korchik, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u179	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, after listening to the speech by the minister of education, the voters called me and reminded me that we were forgetting the very main thing, and that our future was our children. Similarly, the minister did not indicate some basic issues that arise from rural education. And for example, some examples. There are regions in Ukraine where there are three changes in schools, because the buildings built in the middle of the last century were designed for a much smaller number of students. Today, for example, schools in the Sarnen region, such as the villages of Tseptsevich, Vire, Chabel, and the villages of Cles, for example, have about 800 students in the village of Tsiptszewich. Students learn from three changes. So this is a violation of basic sanitary and technical requirements that don't work when it's not even possible to air the classroom when the students come at 8 p.m. and finishes their last shift at 21 p.m. If we are talking about the approach of education to people, we need to talk about the new construction of schools and where it is needed. I think the Ministry of Education needs to review its plans to build schools, because there's a situation where a new school is being built, and we have 50 to 100 students there, and there's, for example, what I said, where there's just no room for their education. And when we say that we don't have the funds, we have to say that we're all saying this when we have a non-legalized financial resource -- amber, which is a legalization issue on time. And I ask that we, colleagues, return to this question for the next plenary week. In a similar way, when some of my colleagues are mating and campaigning in the walls of Parliament, the People's Front political party is working and solving the specific issues that voters are addressing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u180	Thank you. People's MP Kulinich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u181	Oleg Kulinic, MP's Rebirth Party, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! As a national deputy, I have been approached repeatedly by Polish railways. They complain that there is a complete disregard for labour legislation in the Ukrazlaznice. The information on the violation comes from Kremenchuk, Poltava, Mirgorod, Grebinka, Romadan, and other railway nodes. The work of railways on weekends and holidays is paid as usual for working days, not as double as it should be. Guides who work 48 hours per flight are paid only 31 hours. Of course, they spend some time sleeping, they have their timetable, but they are in the workplace and they have to pay for it. Many workers have been transferred to a part - time work week, one can understand the desire for guidance, the need to save the budget, but not at the expense of the people. First of all, such activities, the management of railways poses a threat to the life and health of passengers. Because it often turns out that where two people work according to the rules, only one person works, all of this can lead to technical mistakes and ultimately to tragedy. There is no way to save a person’s life. Second of all, railway workers don't have that much pay for today. They also have families, children, parents, and need help. Many people have given the railways decades, perhaps all their lives, but now no one cares about them at all, no one thinks about them. Please consider my statement to be a question of the direction of the Railroad. Please pay close attention to this situation and return to your fellow workers and passengers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u182	Thank you. Shurma National Deputy, Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u183	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The response of the Minister of Health of Kwiatashvili to the question, "why is the Emergency Health Act not being implemented today", which guarantees the safety of life, which ensures the arrival of patients within the city for up to 10 minutes, in the area of up to 20 minutes. Within two years of the Ministry's work, the project was not implemented in any area. It works more or less for today in Kharkiv region, the elements of function are in Lugansk and Dnipropetrovsk, Zakarpatski, Lviv oblasts, and everyone else is living outside the law. Today, it is certainly one of the last speeches before people cast their votes in elections, and unfortunately, it is not major or agitation, but rather a minor one in terms of health care. Should we expect changes in the health - care system today? From my point of view, unfortunately, the truth must be told: there will be no change today. There will be no change, for there is no change in the state of the developed concept of health care. Call them what you want, reforms, novelists, whatever, but there's no such concept today. Is this an accident? No, it's not. Absolutely not. That people in the coalition today did not know who they had brought to the post of minister? They knew. Didn't they know who would be working as deputies? They knew. Now let's see who's working, and should we expect answers from these people? The Ministry is headed by a historian. Maybe he's a good manager, a good person, maybe he's a good man, who can discuss, acknowledgment and read lectures. The first intercessor is the lawyer. The Ministry of Health also needs work. And who will deal with health care itself, medical problems? As long as the professionals are not in charge of this department, there is no need for change. Examples? Please. Have we been promised to solve the vaccine problem for some time? Are they today, what's changed? No, it's not. Vaccination is not going to happen anyway. To date, we have been told that 4 billion dollars have been allocated for the purchase of drugs. Are they purchased? No, not bought. We're just having tenders. It's that we only get sick after. By the end of the year, in the winter, when do we have to do the shopping? Unfortunately, the minister replied today: I won't do it. Well, not literally, like, the Emergency Medical Services Act. I would like to remind him that he is a citizen of Ukraine, not of America or Georgia, and he is obliged to comply with the legislation that is in force today. In fact, it's a medical emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u184	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u185	Emergency medical care is a tectonic change that can start reforming all health care. Until Kabmin develops a concept of development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u186	Ten more seconds, but I'm asking you to step it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u187	Until Kabin develops a concept of development, it is futile to expect legionnaires in ministerial positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u188	Thank you. People's deputy Dubnevich. And if you'll excuse me, National Deputy Oleg Barn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u189	The great privatization in the early 1990s was an end to the concept of "privatization," which turned it into "acquisition." When, by manipulating the concepts of privatization itself and the process of privatization, the authorities actually developed schemes that forced people to sell 15 to 20 dollars each. Although the value of the government’s assets invested in it was over $10,000. Thus, in fact, people were left without proper property, and the property that was included in the certificate and was actually destroyed, and we also had oligarchs who became owners of large businesses in one year. What have we achieved? The results of this takeover of the '90s are as follows: people have been poisoned, their property rights have been destroyed, they have been reduced to absolute zero. Two: they privatized most of the businesses that were then privatized, they closed, they cut, they didn't work. Unemployment continues to rise, and the penalty continues to be empty. Thus, my appeal to the government representatives and, above all, to the Prime Minister, that you pay attention to the honourable government officials that you may be going the wrong way. Or you could start learning and serving the people, and you could start selling. The second question concerns the political situation in Ukraine, particularly in the Supreme Council. Political lies, political populism, are more damaging to the state, even as is political corruption. Because all thefts, thefts begin with a lie. So you could say, "Like prostitutes she didn't pay, she screams that she's being raped," and the thief who gets caught "hot," he starts to say it's a political order. So stop lying, paying taxes, and accordingly do not engage in crime. And crimes against the State related to the theft of state property and corruption are crimes that should not be time-bound. And believe me. They must all sit for this: both those who stole and killed people on Maidan, and those who came to Midan's blood to power and continued these thieving traditions of the Yanukovic regime - continue to steal. Glory to Ukraine, glory to heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u190	Thank you. National Deputy Ariev, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, of course I'm speaking in front of a very wide audience, full room of people, and I can give a name to everyone who's going to listen to this talk right now: Yegora Soboljeva, Sergija Leshchenka, Svetlana Zlatchuk, Stéphane Barn, Oleg Musia All of them! Yeah? All one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven people. Well, and Mrs. Chief Oksana Siroid. But I mean, well, unfortunately, there's no one to whom it's addressed, they're already gone. I mean those who are doing their political projects for the money of an oligarch of Cologne. And there's plenty of these people in the hall. But they're not just doing their political projects. Their theme, their "attacks" on the President, on the head of the state, are well supported by channel 1+1. But I got some pretty interesting information about the loans that the "1+1" channel owned by the Cologne received from the "Privacy Bank", which also belongs to the Cologne. So in 2013-2014, the TV channel "1+1", which according to their managers, who basically said that the channel was damaged, received loans from Private Bank for nearly half a billion dollars under 11.3-11.8 percent of the year. That's because the deposits offered by Private Bank, and you can find that on their page, are 12 to 26 percent of the year-olds. So we have a unique situation: loans are made cheaper than deposits. I don't care! You could say that the channel -- Colomoysky, the bank -- Colomoysky -- does everything it wants to do. The money's not Colomaysky's. The money in Private Bank is mostly the money of natural persons, because it's one of the largest banks that covers the territory of Ukraine, and there's the investments of natural persons. And now I want to ask the investors of this bank: would you please tell me, and you were sure that you would finance the political projects of the Cologne at your expense? So I can tell you that all of these things that the Colombians are lending, either their business or not their business, and their media to promote their own interests, are being done at the expense of the private investors of PrivaBank. And you can see that clearly. These loans just can't be paid off because the media is corrupt. These loans are lower at the interest rate than deposits, so they can't be repaid. Congratulations, you've funded the Colomoysky media. Next time, be more careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u192	Thank you. And the last performance. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u193	Vladimir Ariev is right: We should not go to Parliament right now. I'll go talk to the people right away. This week, you and I had an extraordinary anticorruption opportunity. Now all property registers, information about who owns the property, which belongs to the land in Ukraine, are completely exposed. Either by address or by name you can easily find this information: the real estate site of the Ministry of Justice, the land site of the State Land cadastre, it's very important for two things. The first is to control what our officials have, what your officials have, which is in all of whom people have delegated power. Can these people explain whether they have rewrote anything to their relatives, friends, acquaintances? We found all of this to be a crime. Now, if a person cannot explain his or her property or environment, it is called illegal enrichment, and it must be confiscated in the favor of the State. The second very important reason to use this openness is to check whether your property is properly formed. Unfortunately, in our country for many years there has been a crime of property registration. And it's very often used by cheaters. So the transparency of the registers is an opportunity to prevent fraud with your apartment, with your car, with your house. There's a problem with the cars. Sadly, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, headed by Arsen Habakkuk, failed to comply with the law that came into force this week. And information about car owners is not yet available. We will certainly control this in Parliament. And we will work with you to ensure that all information about property, about the work of government officials, about their property is easy and accessible on the Internet. The next major task is to have courts and prosecutors appear in Ukraine, punishing them for violating such laws. And step by step, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-09-m0.u194	Thank you. Before closing the sessions, I want to make some announcements. Therefore, those who are still present. Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Therefore, I ask those present in the hall to wait. According to this statement, and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Matkovsky Bogdan Mironovic, from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "National Control". The People's Control Interfractional Union was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dobrodomov Dmitry Evgenović. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of the interfractional Karpati MPs. The head of the Interfractional Carpathian Union is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. And the last. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I announce the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association called "Ukrainian Advocacy" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional union was the national deputy of the Ukraine, Georgi Volodimirovich, of Logwine. I declare the morning session closed. Unfortunately, the next meeting will take place on November 3, 2015, at 10 a.m.
