ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, lunchtime is over. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. We still have a lot of important laws. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work and the heads of the factions to invite the deputies to the Chamber. Please come into the hall. My colleagues, once again, we're not enough to continue our work. I'm asking the people's deputies from the towers to come into the hall. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Self Help Unite, invite a colleague into the workroom. Dear colleagues, the factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, take your seats, we will continue our meeting. We still have many important questions to ask. Especially the gas rent that we're about to consider, the moratorium, the extension of the moratorium on land, the local elections. And there's one question about that. The last question of visa-free regime is that our legislation is consistent with the requirements of the European Union. Also, I would like everyone to take their seats and prepare for registration, your honor's colleagues. Please take our seats, dear colleagues. Please, fellow national MPs, we are taking our seats in the Supreme Council Hall, preparing for registration. Please. Dear colleagues, we're preparing to register, we're taking our seats. Please, please, take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please activate the "Council" voting system. Please. For registration. Let's register. [[16:16:19]] Registered -369
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u3	369 for. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. First, let me read the announcement that came to the fore. So the announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association called the European Environmental Initiative. The European Environmental Initiative was elected as the head of the Interfractional Union of the European Environmental Initiative by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome the head of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We have one more question to consider in the context of the introduction of a visa-free regime. A corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been prepared, that is, amending the law. I'd like to ask your attention for a moment. The issue is to include in the agenda for decision-making, but we will consider it a little later, the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work on harmonization of Ukraine's legislation in the field of prevention and opposition to discrimination and the affairs of the European Union. Now it's about putting it in the agenda for decision-making. But we're not going to look at it right now; we're going to look at it a little bit later. Once we've put it in the agenda, this is a matter for a decision, we'll go straight to the question of rent per gas. So I would like to take this very seriously. Now take your seats, dear fellows. Please include in the agenda and decision 3442. This will be in accordance with the ad hoc procedure, the deviation from the Rules, in accordance with the procedure for dealing with the matter. Please, Your Honor, we have a magical voice about voting. I'm putting this motion to a vote in a signal mode. Colleagues, please take your seats. Alert ad hoc vote on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of a decision in accordance with the draft Law (Registration number 3442) on the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with European legislation, with the legislation of the European Union. Please support this decision in the day-to-day and decision-making process. Let's vote on the vote. Signal vote. Not all deputies are still in place, but I think the mobile sound is now mobilizing, this sound is mobilizing all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's have a signal vote. Please support this initiative. Please vote. Please be supportive. Integrating in the daytime. Please be supportive. It's a signal vote. We're waiting for all deputies to take their seats in the hall. [[16:21:12]] For-183 That's better. Ladies and gentlemen, we're never going to be able to look at a gas rent. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Once again, dear fellows. By adhoc, a draft law was introduced, the last of the visa liberalisation packages. And I beg of you, dear fellows. And I beg of you, dear fellows. I ask, Your Honor, to support the proposal to bring this important issue into the agenda, please. You're taking your seats. Faction leaders, please organize factions to vote. Friends, please, 3442. Entry into the agenda for ad hoc decision-making. We're not going to look at it later. But now we're going to include the order of the day session. Please support the visa issue. During the report you'll hear all the arguments both "for," and "against," and everyone will be determined by this question. Please support, Your Honor, the inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. Bringing in the agenda and making decisions on the ad hoc procedure, we'll discuss it later, I'm asking you to support this important issue. This is a question provided by the action plan for the introduction of a visa-free regime. I'd like you to support that, Your Honor. Vote. Signal vote, please. Can I have your back, please? [[16:23:39]] For 204 That's better. 204, colleagues. That's better, good. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this proposal. I'm putting it to the vote again. Colleagues, please, I'm asking everyone to focus, calm down. Please, colleagues, once again, a signal vote, I ask you to maintain the inclusion in the order of day 3442. Please support, colleagues, we vote for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. This is a signal vote, my friends, please support. [[16:24:56]] For 206 Well, dear fellows, we will return to this issue today. Please, colleagues, concentrate. Is there another offer? Colleagues, take your seats. Please, colleagues, let's take another look at inclusion in the agenda. Give us a minute, please, Yuri Lucenko. Colleagues, listen carefully. It's not a joke. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u5	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today we voted on practically all the important package of laws that not only provide more opportunities to fight corruption and crime in Ukraine, but also open a window for Ukraine to Euro-integration. In doing so, the people's deputies should know, according to Mr. Junker's official letter as one of the leaders of the European Union, 8 countries of the European Union require Ukraine to clarify the issue of non-discrimination by any means. This is a condition for being part of a European culture. I want to speak to people who are not currently voting in favour of the proposed review of the law. Dear friends, this bill is in no way legalizing an unconventional sexual orientation. You may not support it, not practice it, not even condemn it, but refuse it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u7	But denying these people in their right to work is wrong, even from the standpoint of God’s commandments, to gain bread in the course of their foreheads. I want to point out what's going on about the inability to discriminate by all the signs: religious, national, gender, any other. Dear friends! In this Parliament, no one legalizes the same-sex flaws, that's obvious. But allowing all citizens of Ukraine to work, unable to deny the right to work, is a perfectly right approach proposed by this law. So I'm asking everyone who sees us as part of a European culture, European values that do not allow discrimination of any kind, even an unloved person here, even an unloved person that we may not even respect, but we have to give her the right to work, to vote in favour of the law. And the Radical Party, first of all, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u8	Please, Santa. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, I just want to thank you, first of all, today's session room for being with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u10	Colleagues, attention, woman says, our fellow national MP, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament today for the constructiveism that exists in the session room today. And we really managed to do a lot of work in the first half of the day, for which is a special thanks to the largest faction of Peter Poshenko's Block, the People's Front, the Fatherland, which fully supports all the European bills, the Radical Party of Laška, which is voting for all the bills, the Self-Help, which has also joined today to constructively support Ukraine's implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, and really to us and to those non-fractional deputies that have joined in. And I ask that we also now support the inclusion in the agenda of the day vote, the consideration of this issue, which remains in the agenda for visa liberalisation. It's about getting into the agenda, and let's not lose this European constructive pace and I think they're very proud of.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u12	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, I'm addressing you now. All of Ukraine expects us to make decisions that will allow us to reduce the cost of tariffs that will enable people to have decent income that will enable people in our home country to survive. Because when we talk to you about a visa-free regime, the person who has 40-50 dollars in pension and salary is not going anywhere because she has nothing to go for. So I now demand that Parliament move immediately to consider reducing the rent on gas, the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, the bills that concern all Ukrainian society. Please don't bring laws to Parliament now that actually destabilize the work of Parliament and break the consideration of those laws that all society is looking forward to. It's not what Lucenko wants, it's what he wants, it's what he wants!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u14	Listen, colleagues, we're about to get a vote and rent for gas, we're going to get a vote and a moratorium on land, and everybody knows that. And you don't have to hit the air in the hall, but you have to do everything you can to accept the visa-free regime, and reduce the rent on gas, and take the moratorium on land further and so forth. So it doesn't rule out each other, so you don't have to speculate on the subject. Please, Mikola Knieżicki. And prepare for the vote, colleagues. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u15	Dear friends, let us not deceive one another. I want to go to the Self-Help faction right now, and I want to go to the BUT faction, and I want to go to everyone else who's voting and who's not. There is no European country, including believers and Catholics, where there is no point in the absence of democratization. I will now read you article 183 of the Codex on the work of the Polish Republic, which is a Catholic country. Listen: "Relationship to employees in the area of establishment and termination of employment relationships, conditions of employment, encouragement and access to education for the purpose of increasing professional qualifications should be equal, in particular regardless of sex, age, disability, race, religion, nationality, political belief, professional activity, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, and regardless of employment during a defined or indefinite period, or full or incomplete working day." Friends, we don't legalize same - sex marriages! We're against it, most of it in this room. We choose whether we go to Moscow or we go to Europe. If you want to go to Moscow, don't vote, please. Be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u16	Thank you. Colleagues, language does not go, and this law has exactly the same standards as Polish labour legislation. So I'm re-voting the ad hoc bill 3442, and I'm asking you to support it. Integrating into the agenda for its consideration, please support, please vote. Alert vote for inclusion. Colleagues, back up, back up. Please vote, vote. "For," please support. [[16:33:25]] For the 220. Colleagues, and now I'm putting the vote in the agenda and I'm asking you to vote, 220. Please vote, my friends, we vote for inclusion in the agenda, we vote, we vote, we vote. Please support, we vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the ad hoc session. [[16:33:49]] For 224 Colleagues, two votes. Guys, two votes is not enough. Please, colleagues, do it again. We vote inclusion in the agenda and ad hoc decision-making, vote, please support. And let's move right on to the gas rent. Please vote, vote. Integrating into the agenda of the session, please support. [[16:34:18]] For 228 Decision taken. The bill is included. That's it, thank you. We will continue to exchange our thoughts during our consideration. Thank you. Thank you for your support. Let's move on. Calm down. 2835, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cost of Gas for the Population. Reported by Nina Petrovyn, chairman of the committee. One minute. There is a proposal by Yuri Lucenka to vote immediately on the law on discrimination 3442. I'm putting this motion to a vote, 3442. The signal vote, the bill that we included ad hoc, which we included in the agenda. Please support everyone. Everyone, please come into the hall. Ad hoc, please. Twenty. Yes, please, 3442, we vote. Who's behind it, on the whole? Signal. In total, 3242, please. In general, we vote. 3442, we vote. Voting, voting. 3442, as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Jury Lucenka's offer, ad hoc. [[16:35:57]] For 206 Yeah, we didn't make it. Friends, 3442, draft law on discrimination in general, please vote. In general. Ready? Vote. We can vote for a visa-free regime. Vote. 3442, we vote. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. We're voting in general. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:36:47]] For 207 I didn't get the required number of votes. We'll get back to that. 2835, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Cost of Gas for Population (second reading), please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u17	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On November 3, the Tax and Customs Committee held an extraordinary meeting of the Committee at which the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted October 6 on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the cost of gas for the population (register No. 2835, dated 14.09). The bill received 21 proposals. These are taken into account in part or essentially 6 proposals and are offered at a discount of 15 suggestions. What is proposed for second reading as a result of the committee discussion. The committee's second reading is a draft of the law, a table that is now before you, which predicts a reduction in the rate of rent for the extraction of natural gas for the population from 70 to 29 percent of the value of goods. It is proposed that the rate of rent for natural gas be retained during the implementation of the 70 - percent joint activity agreements. And this rate will apply only to those joint ventures where one of the sides is a state-owned enterprise or another enterprise in which the state-directed share is. It's written in that paper that's completely in line with the short condition that I've just stressed. It is also proposed to reduce the rate of rent for natural gas production from 55 percent to 29 percent and from 28 percent to 14 percent depending on the depth of the land. At the same time, reduce the size of the congregation as a target supplement to an existing natural gas tariff for consumers of all forms of property from 4 to 0 percent. You can go over the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u18	Please, colleagues, second reading. Let's do some repairs. Fifth Amendment. People's MP Lopushanski. Four count, I've got it written down, partially. National MP Yuri Lewchenko, fourth amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u19	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, society, my amendment, which is partially counted, and it's not really counted at all. As far as she's concerned. It's about the next one. So the bill says it's meant to be, called to lower consumer tariffs, for consumer consumers, for the population per gas. It's the right target. However, the bill proposes to reduce the interest rate not only for the gas consumed for consumption but also for the gas used for other commercial purposes unrelated to the consumption of the Ukrainian people. My amendment is precisely about reducing the interest rate exclusively for the gas that is directed towards the consumption of the Ukrainian people, rather than the gas that is used for any other commercial purpose, because it is not possible to reduce the interest rate on non-profit enterprises under good terms. So I urge you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u20	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u21	Your amendment has not been taken into account because it is a reduction in the rate for natural gas production for industrial needs from 55 to 29 and from 28 to 14 that it is designed to support a sector that, according to 2015, has reduced mining in general. And mining for industrial purposes is also for the benefit of Ukraine's economy. Therefore, the amendment is not supported by the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u22	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? So, your honorary colleagues, the 4th amendment, which is part of the committee, the National MP, the author, the National MP, Lewchenko. The offer is to consider it fully. This proposal was not supported by the committee. Please be sure. [[16:41:59]] Z-85 I didn't get the required number of votes. 5 Amendment, People’s Deputy Lopushanski Don't you insist? 6th. Counted. 7th. Yuri Chizmar. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th National MP Krishin. Declined. Don't insist. 11th, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak. Correction, do you insist? Don't insist. 12 Amendments, People's Deputy Belkova. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u23	Thank you. In fact, I will not insist on voting for this amendment. But I would like to take this opportunity to contact the Prime Minister. Mr. Yatzenuk, I'd like to refer to you on the grounds that my amendment was made on a cash basis for renting public companies. I understand we're not going to do it today. But we can't ignore the problem of what's currently being calculated by the government's gas company by the end of the year. Today, Crushing is paying from 20 to 30 percent for restructuring in front of fiscal authorities. Please note this problem. Count on the gas and make sure that Ukrainian citizens receive cheap gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u24	Please comment, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u25	It's not supported, really, because it's quite complex, and it wasn't included in the bill because it's, well, more questions are covered by what the bill provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u26	Thank you. This is the 12th amendment. They don't insist on voting. Let's go. 13 Amendment, People's Deputy Yacenko. Don't insist. 15th, Belkova. You don't want to insist on the 15th amendment? He insists. Please, National Deputy Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u27	Arsenius Petrovich, my next amendment also concerns a very important issue – the issue of joint activity. I will also not insist on her being voted on. But I remind you, this is a big question. In this room. We can't keep quiet about him. If you think that this activity is wrong for the Ukrainian gas sector, please suggest how to address this issue so that contracts of joint activity can exist in Ukraine, but with transparent, unprofitable schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u28	Dear colleagues. The amendment is also rejected because it does not apply to the bill, namely, it violates article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u29	Don't you insist on voting? Please, 16th. People's deputy Yatzenko. Don't insist. 17th Amendment. National MP Burbak. Don't insist. Next, 18th. People's deputy Krishin. Don't insist. 20th. People's MP Melniczuk. He insists. Melniczuk is a national MP. 20 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u30	Dear colleagues. It has to be admitted that our colleague from the Petra Prashenko faction, Oxana, sold a better version of the amendment. So I'm filming my amendment in her favor. I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u31	Don't insist. Okay. And 21 amendments. People's deputy Belkova. Don't insist. All right, dear colleagues, we've actually exhausted the entire table. Please, Nina Petrovna. Please, microphone to the committee head. The minister wants to comment, doesn't he? Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimiri Borisovich. There is another amendment that the deputies insisted on and that was not included in the committee's extraordinary meeting. But to ensure effective voting, please take it into account in the body of the law. I want to read it under the transcript. To complete the text of the law "Transitional Positions" of chapter XX of this code with a new subsection of the following content. Temporaryly, by April 1, 2017, such features of the application of some of the rules of chapter IX of the Code are established. Interest rates for the use of natural gas to extract up to 5,000 metres [5,000 m] natural gas from deposits, which corresponds to the condition laid down in article 2522.4 of the Code, are set for the period defined by this subsection as a percentage of the value of the goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u34	a manufacturing enterprise of mined mineral fossils in these sizes. From the date of entry into force of the Act until 30 June 2016, including 70 per cent, 55 per cent, from 1 July 2016 to 31 March 2017, from 1 April 2017, the rate set out in paragraph 252.20, i.e. 29 per cent, of article 252 of the Act, applies. In order to properly reflect the proposed proposal in the text of the law, I ask that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Committee, conduct technical and legal proceedings prior to the submission of the law for signature, should it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, there is another amendment that you have just made, as well as an amendment to the Transitional Regulations regarding the obligation of the Cabinet of Ministers to adjust housing and utility tariffs and gas according to this law. And given this position, in the second reading and in general with this proposal, I am voting on Nina Petrovna's voiced proposal. Do I get it right? Vote. SD is 70 percent, we vote. Vote. We vote in the second reading and in general. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:49:31]] For 165 I didn't get the amount of this law. Next, now, a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, make an offer. Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u36	I'm addressing all the deputies now. The point is that the amendment made by the People's Front practically leaves 70 percent of the rent for the state-owned Crushing Company. This means that they deliberately continue to bankrupt the Crushing Company, which NAC Naftogaz is not paying for today, and they're also charging it with pennies, fines and taxes on tax credit. "The Crushing" is deliberately killing the government. That's why the People's Front amendment is not acceptable. But at the same time, I have an amendment in my hands that is requested to vote on all faction leaders other than the People's Front. The signatures of the original faction leaders. It's just about to. It's just that in Transitional Positions, it's to say that because of the reduction in rent per gas production, it's proportional to lowering these per capita gas and tariffs for hot and hot water.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u37	Finish, please, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u38	But I ask you to vote separately on the amendment of the People's Front and vote separately on the amendment of all the factions that signed this amendment. And I ask you to put it separately for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u39	Okay. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Let's exchange thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u40	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! That's exactly what you're doing right now is discrimination against people in Ukraine who can survive and who can't survive this winter. And what you're doing is discrimination against Ukrainian society compared to Europe. Hence, today there must be a law that will benefit people, not oligarchic circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u41	I fully support the need for a bill to be passed that will benefit people, not the oligaric clans. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. I'll give all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Leaving 70 percent of the rent for a state-owned enterprise is anti-government policy. Whom do we support? Instead of supporting our people, our manufacturers, instead of getting less addictive and actually avoiding dependence on imported energy, we're destroying our own production. What's happening in Parliament right now is actually a lie to people. They want to vote on a law that does not essentially solve the problem of lowering the cost of rents for gas production by state companies. The people of the fourth week are standing there, near Kabmin, demanding a reduction in tariffs. And that's why we now require Parliament to vote on this law, to vote on the Anti-Trafficking Act, to vote on the laws on the elimination of Naftogazu and the creation of NCRE KP, regardless of the government or the President. And that's going to give you the opportunity to lower tariffs, everything else is a lie to people. We will not allow this deception.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u43	Maxim Burbak, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? The time of truth has come, now we understand who has fought for the past month and a half, who wants to return the rates for joint ventures for the oligarchs and who cares for the people. Please tell me, 70 percent of the rent for Crushing is to fill subsidies for 10 million people, 4 million homes have already been built. As they winter now, you don't care. The way you fill your budget, you don't care. By the way, the budget provides for 25 billion dollars to pay subsidies to socially vulnerable groups, next year 40 billion dollars. Why would you do that? And in order for Crushing to develop, they've developed a rent reduction graph so they can invest in infrastructure development. The amendment of the People's Front is to protect socially vulnerable people by granting them subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u45	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar. Now we're going to swap in a minute, and we're going to think about what to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, of course, we have spoken today from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, that before the elections and during the elections, everyone has made a great promise to the people that the tariffs will be resolved, that tariffs will be reduced, that every family today will have a normal winter and have the opportunity to actually pay the fares that come to each family today. We demand, we put these bills to the vote, and we will show by real vote each faction as it supports people. The Rebirth Party will unanimously vote and show that we have sought this issue and we support it so that people will be able to resolve the issue of decline, after the cost of living is reduced and there is social protection for real people, not the conversations that we listen to in the hall under the cover of big social guarantees and so on. We put it to a vote and we vote unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u48	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Judging by what's going on in the session room, we're taking a course to overthrow this law. I think that our colleagues and all the authorities are better aware of the laws of Europe, the way Europe lives, they don't know what people live for. I have to tell you that today, lonely people gather in one house to make it cheaper to survive, including to get away from banditry, when 200 bucks can destroy a person completely. So the suggestion is, of course, to make a decision that would have a practical solution to support people. Let's vote on these two amendments, and it'll be clear how people were told who were protecting people and who were protecting oligarchs. But they promised to pass this law, and now everything is being done to bring this law down. Well, you can't do that to people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u49	Thank you. Alexander Dombrowski. And let's sum it up. Ah, and Victoria Wojcietsky. Yes, it's a deal. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u50	Dear friends, in my opinion, our problem is that when we discuss this bill, that we continue to speak with political slogans, we continue to cover ourselves politically with the fight against oligarchs, the adoption of those bills that people and the country need today. Unfortunately, we didn't get any numbers that could show us the relationship between the Financial Crushing, Naftogazu, their relationship with the budget, which is the price of an adjustment for the 2015 State Budget, which we can base in 2016. We vote with our eyes closed. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u51	An offer? None. Victoria Vojticka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention, first of all, to colleagues from the People's Front who say we're not looking at any remedies that relate to joint activity and we're going to the oligarchs. First of all, there's my first copyright, Mrs. Yuzanina, Ostrikova and Babak, which clearly regulates that we leave 70 percent for joint activity. That's the first one. The other one. When you're saying that we actually have Crushing as a source of budget filling to pay the grant. I have before me a letter from Crushing, which clearly says that they have a difficult financial situation, at the end of 2015 they will owe 13.8 billion dollars to the budget. And Naftogaz also says in his answer that they're only counted from Crushing when they get the money from the State Budget from the power plant. Yeah, I'm sorry, who's who, when, and what's gonna pay for us to then give people subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u54	Accordingly, our proposal is that of the following. Put to the vote the two amendments proposed by the People's Front, which Mrs. Jujanina and Mrs. Yulia Volodymyrny Timoshenko speak separately, and then go to the vote of the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u55	Thank you. That's a nice offer. Please, Julia Timoshenko, then Pavlov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u56	Dear friends, the moment of truth is coming. The moment of truth is that we have the opportunity to return to our gas sector a reasonable interest rate. The world’s largest interest rate is 39 percent in Denmark. Ukraine, which wants to develop its own sector and replace Russian gas with its own gas, has set 70 for its public company. What kind of politics is that? The industry is bankrupted, and as a result, extra money is taken from people at the price of gas and at the rate of heat. Now this vote gives us the right and the ability, first of all, to set a normal wage for a state-owned enterprise called Crushing, and second of all, to lower by 20.4 percent the price for gas for the population as a result of lower rents, as well as heat and hot water. I'm asking the room to consolidate around people's interests, not around the stupid politics that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pavlov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u58	Respected colleagues speculating on the lack of funding for benefits and grants. Ladies and gentlemen, stop fooling the people. Because the most expensive object of expenditure in housing services is actually thermal energy and gas for the population. And there will be no need for this amount of benefits and subsidies if the rent is reduced. The opposition bloc initially voted against raising tariffs on the rent for gas. The full vote will vote unanimously in favour of withdrawing these lossy rent payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! It is a pleasure to have a part in a political discussion. But I suggest we move on to arithmetic, numbers and facts. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which envisioned a reduction in rent in natural gas production for companies that did not steal licences that did not sign a joint venture agreement that did not illegally receive any kind of genealogy. And those who invest, invest and increase the amount of natural gas. The bill, which was introduced by the government, was worked out by all world experts who were directly involved in investing in the Ukrainian gas sector. During the introduction of the law to the parliament of an alternative by strange coincidences, a rule has emerged that returns the tax on 12 gas oligarchs who share a common activity. After the government of Ukraine made a public statement on this issue, some began to tease. Those who have fought so hard for the people of Ukraine. And to those who are saving for the people of Ukraine and are now talking about NAK Naftogaz Ukraine and Crushing is bankruptcy, I'll tell you, they're not bankrupt. But you bankrupted them with the $500 gas price you signed! The ten billion dollars we paid Russia because of your irresponsibility and because of your lies! Now, now, dear colleagues. Those who are now offering to lower the price, and more specifically the rent for Crushing, listen to what they're offering right now. Because Crushing has its own gas, and because the price of Crushing is not market today, we found the opportunity to give a thousand cubic meters of gas to the heating season for every household at a price twice as low as the market price. It's not 7,000 200, it's 3,000 600. What these actions are now proposing to reduce the rent for Crushing are doing to you. That means we have to eliminate the social standard and raise the price of gas from 3.600 to 7.200. Vote for it! I'm against it! Now let's move on. As for the grant tool. That's the same. Those who cry and talk about how difficult it is to live, regret that you did not cry or think when you were in Ukrainian power and led the Ukrainian state to bankruptcy. So today, 1 out of every 4 citizens in the country, 1 out of 4 are receiving subsidies from the government of Ukraine. The first payment orders have already arrived. And here on Friday, on this stand, I'm going to come and show you that the average amount of subsidy for those who need it, not for those throats who gas their pools, is between 600 and 1.5 thousand dollars per household. In view of this, honourable national MPs have a proposal to reduce rent rates for those who will actually extract gas and those who have stolen genealogies, those who want to continue to form gas oligarches and those who want to deprive the people of Ukraine of social standards and increase actual tariffs should not receive support in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u61	Dear fellow national MPs. Everyone's already said that. One minute, please, Oleg Berezuk. But everyone's already told me about the factions. We're on our way. All of it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u63	It took a minute and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the Self-Help faction has always taken a consistent position that joint activity where there is a state share of ownership or quasi-State enterprises, which where a private investor came and invested nothing in the development of this stock should be taxed at 70 percent. But on the other hand, I want to remind you that Crushing is a state company. And then when we agreed to 70 percent, we just believed that you couldn't control the management of this company. I want to tell you that the profits that will remain in this company you can as an effective management take on dividends. And leave just as much as it takes to develop it, and let the rest go to lower the tariff. In fact, there is no direct connection. But if the commission was working, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u65	Finish up, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u66	The Parliamentary Commission, which has established that the gas tariff structure includes taxes and rents, allows this to reduce the rent, thus allowing the tariff to be reduced for the population. So you don't have to manipulate, for common activity, there's an agreement that where there's a state and a private investor, there should be a 70 percent stake, and where there's a Crushing and there's a possibility of lowering the tariff, we have to lower that rate. Because the basic principle of taxation is non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've passed the table of second reading with you. And there's a proposal right now, concentrate, please, there's a second-reading vote proposal and generally in line with the committee's decision. Please vote. In accordance with the decision of the committee with the amendment announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] Separately an order that was announced. Look, it's all in the table, I understand. All the changes are in the table. Please, then, check out Southern Nina Petrovna. It's not Jujana's, it's what she sounded from the rostrum. An editorial that was bugged by Nina Petrovna Jujanina. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't need to hear it again. I understand everyone heard it. Please, let's hear it again. Sound the line again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, when we were on this committee, and we had a representative of the government of Didenko, we were trying to hear a figure, which is the effect of lowering the rent on the price of gas for the population of one metre per cubic metre. We didn't get the answer. So now I've read you an amendment that people's deputies insisted on, including the People's Front, which refers to the gradual decline in the rent rate for Crushing, i.e. end this heating season and the next one at 70, then move on to 55 and get out by 29. So two seasons, so the government sees that this season is going to end by 70, the next season by 55, and then 29. So I'm going to, I've explained this to you, I'm going to read it again. Temporaryly, until April 1, 2017, some of the provisions of Chapter IX of the Code are established. The wage rates for using natural gas to extract up to 5,000 feet [5,000 m] of natural gas, which corresponds to the condition laid down in article 252 of the Code, paragraph 252.24, are set for the period defined by this subsection, as a percentage of the value of the mining industry’s value of the mine. From the date of entry into force of this law, and we get it immediately after signing it, until 30 June 2016, including 70 per cent, from 1 July 2016 to 31 March 2017, including 55 per cent, and from 1 April 2017, the rate set out in paragraph 252.20 of Article 252 (this taking into account the law of July Volodymyrna) is 29 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u69	Now we put to the vote for this amendment first. Please. I put to the vote an amendment announced by Nina Petrovna Jujanin. Announced. Which I announced. Please vote. [[17:11:13]] For-182 I didn't get the right number of votes, 182. Another repair. Edit Julia Timoshenko. Let Nina Petrovna read it, let her know. The committee will read it, please pass it on. And find out who signed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u70	From the National MPs came the law. Paragraph 2 in the "End" and "Transitional positions" put it in such an order. "The state authorities, which act under Ukrainian law as a function of State regulation of the price of Ukrainian gas and housing and utility tariffs, are obliged to immediately reduce the price of Ukrainian gas and the corresponding housing and utility tariffs in proportion to the reduction in the size of the rent under this law."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u71	Now another proposal is for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u72	The leaders were respectfully signed: Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, Oleg Berezuk, Oleg Lasko, Jaroslav Moskalenko, Vitaly Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u73	Please vote on this amendment. [[17:12:59]] For 208 I didn't pick it up either. Suggestions. Once again, this proposal, this amendment I'm putting to the vote, once again, to the amendment. Once again, please, the same amendment. [[17:13:36]] For 208 Colleagues, same number of votes. Dear friends, let's go now. I'm betting on a second-reading vote and the bill as a whole. Please vote as regards the second reading and as a whole, without amendment. [[17:14:00]] For 215 Colleagues, same number of votes. There is an offer to vote him out, send him back to read again for the purpose of taking him out. For the second reading again. Wait, fellows, he's going to be now, you're going to blame each other, and he's going to be ruined at all, we've been through this before, we've been through this. Second reading proposal, please vote. Please vote. There'll be another offer, wait. It's a second reading again. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u74	We demand consideration. [[17:14:44]] For the 180. 108, and neither did the required number of votes. One minute. Wait a minute, we're taking a 15-minute break. Group and faction leaders, please come into the office. Don't set up what doesn't have to be done here. Let's get our actions in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Yes, we continue the meeting. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I have the authority to continue for 15 minutes, and we will continue to determine how to move forward. A meeting was held with factions and groups. Regrettably, the thoughts were divided again. I still thought that we could go to a negotiated decision together on voting, but unfortunately, there is no such decision yet. But in view of what we need to determine about this law, with regard to reducing rent on gas, we will now continue our meeting. And I invite the faction leaders to express their position on this, and we will continue to go to the vote, and we will make it possible to vote in favour of these decisions. Is such an offer accepted? Please come into the hall. Colleagues, we're continuing our meeting. Please, from the factions. Julia Timoshenko, one minute. One minute from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, a country of honor! I am now addressing all the citizens who can see us and hear us. Now there's a key bill in the hall that allows you to lower a completely dragon's, unwarranted rent on gas. I remind you, the biggest rent in Denmark is 39 percent, for example, in Turkey, which develops production, 12 percent of the rent. This government has thrown 70 percent of the rent on our field! And if we don't accept it now, we're not going to lower, first of all, people's gas tariffs, and second of all, our gas-intensive state sector will be bankrupted. And if now Peter Dustenka's Block and the People's Front continue to block it, you will be accountable to the country and to everyone. Surrender and live for the country, not for yourself!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u78	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u79	Independent experts counted and told us. Excuse me? And they told us that the economically sound tariff in this state is lower than it is right now. And that means that we're getting out of our people's pockets too much money. I don't understand, and we don't understand why we as the authorities can't admit the mistakes that have been made, recalculate the tariff, make it economically sound, and prove to people that they can and should trust. Today we are all here, all of you here, united for the rights of the people, today, now, without voting on this law, we are deceiving people and violating their rights to survival. So there is a proposal to unite around this law, it is well - prepared, it is well - economical. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u80	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u81	We must admit our mistakes and meet those who own us. Our owners are ordinary people, not oligarchy vulgar capitalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u82	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Moscalenko, then Oleg Lazko, then Victor Bondar and Yuri Boyko. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u83	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Our MP group is a major MP. I would ask you to understand that when the Supreme Council first adopted this bill, people had the hope that the decision would be final. Why did you play with these people? We understand all the challenges that exist in government. But we agreed, your honor, that after the vote of Euro-Integration Laws, this key decision will be taken, I'm not talking about everyone else anymore. We get that the European standards require us to have dog shelters, and people act out of nowhere, they freeze. So please, let's make this decision, or we won't be able to move on, or we won't have confidence. For as it is necessary, the laws vote 20 times, and when the law is to be passed, they say that there is no decision. So let's support the Head, support each other and make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u84	Thank you. We've voted seven times. Now, I think we're going to be record-breaking. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Nowhere in the world is 70 percent of the wages paid to government gas producers. Nowhere in the world but Ukraine! Today, citizens pay an average price of $331 for a thousand cubic metres of gas. But we're getting 230 dollars worth of imported gas. I ask: Why do people, why do millions of Ukrainians have to pay for the corruption schemes that the authorities are parasitic today? Why do we, as millions of citizens, have to pay for the corruption of the energy market from our own pockets? Why do pensioners, Afghans, black people, disabled people, young people, unemployed people have to pay for a billion dollars in their own pockets? That is why we demand that this law be passed, that we do not depart from this House of Parliament until the law is passed. And I want all the people to see how and for whom Parliament votes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u86	Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the Rebirth Party, our faction back in December last year, when this bill was voted on, warned you, an active coalition, of all five factions that this law would be shameful; this law would lead to people not being able to pay today's tariffs; that the gas-intensive national Ukrainian branch would be lost; that by 2020 you would simply lose our gas companies. And today we need to be able to admit our mistakes. We urge you, for the sake of those people who today cannot pay these tariffs, for those people who don't know how to survive on the money they get today, let's vote on this bill. Stop talking! Put it to the vote! And we don't split up until today's drafts are passed. This will allow you to lower tariffs and give you a perspective for our gas companies. Think of your country’s future! Do not let this sector be lost and allow people to survive under today’s conditions. We're talking to you! Vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block. Then Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u89	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The result of the adoption of this law is to reduce, firstly, payments to the population and consumers for gas, and secondly, increases in the production of gas for own consumption. And this is good for our country. That's why the political opposition is the opposition bloc, not waiting for any transitional periods, but today we need to make a decision and cut the rent, especially for the state-owned gas mining company. This is crucial. We're going to vote down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u90	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Let's lower the level of discussion a little bit. And I'm sorry, let's make a constructive decision. "The People's Front" stood on the fact that it would not support the bill in the edition of Yulia Timoshenko because we see that there will be no fund for subsidies. We offered our amendment, which had been sounded by Eugene, who had not been accepted by the hall. And this is where the blackmail started, "vote!" We insist that we propose a second, now we vote in favour of re-second reading, we send it to work. To hear the President’s suggestion, the Prime Minister. By the way, we have a coalition government. Let us not forget that everyone has delegated his representatives there. And take political responsibility for all the decisions you make on yourself. This is the position of the People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u92	Thank you. Please, Peter Dustock's Block, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u93	Dear colleagues! An amendment has been made to the head of the Southern Committee on Postponing for Crushing. We have supported this amendment in faction and will vote with this amendment. If the law does not pass, the proposal is to re-read it. To consult with the government and to adopt this law in the next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u95	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! This isn't about rent. This is about the level of tariffs. Well, believe me, as Prime Minister or any national deputy in which we would all be interested, that gas would be free at all. Really? Well, it's not free. It costs 250 U.S. dollars in Europe. Not 500, like under a Russian gas contract, but 250, like we're buying it today. Expensive national MPs would like gasoline to be twice as cheap as the world’s market prices. I wish the sausage were free, and the vodka was being distributed in vain. Well, there's no such thing. That's why, people's deputies, please listen! A coalition formed a year ago took on political responsibility and signed a coalition agreement to ensure that the level of tariffs in Ukraine corresponds to the market level. The market level is the import price plus VAT plus transport. In spite of this, we have found the opportunity to sell gas to the social standard not by 7,000 200, but by 3,000 600 for the heating season. I now propose a great meeting with the President of Ukraine, along with the parliamentary factions of the coalition, who signed under a coalition agreement and took responsibility to find a solution. I'm the first person interested in finding that decision. But this decision should correspond not only to the desire to have low tariffs but to the real economic foundations. It should have a calculation, not an emotion and a desire to earn half a percent of the political rating. Because they wanted to make a rating, they almost lost the country. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies of Ukraine, first of all from the coalition, to lower the degree of aggression. Conduct appropriate political and economic consultations. Then, on Thursday, please make the final decision on the subject of compromise to find such a solution for the people of Ukraine and for the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u96	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go to the vote. In order for us to vote, we need to go back to this question, because I have to make other proposals now. You want me to make suggestions on the amendments. Therefore, please, who supports the proposal to return to the consideration of this law, please vote. It's about coming back. [[18:13:59]] For 249 Look at us now, 249, we're back. There was a proposal made by a national deputy, more specifically, by Nina Petrovn Jujanin. We're starting now, in principle, what we've been going through again. The second reading of the draft law was an amendment to the bill. Please, who is in favour of supporting this amendment, please vote on support. Are you ready to vote in favour of this amendment, as sounded by Nina Petrovn Jujanin? One minute, stop the vote. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u97	This is the first amendment that I've heard about the gradual transition of Crushing to lower the wage rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u98	Yes, this is the first amendment that was made. Please vote. Who for this amendment to this bill, please vote, Your Honor. [[18:15:25]] For 175 This amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second suggestion was the second amendment announced by Nina Petrovna. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u99	The following amendment applied that the public authorities that function as a government price regulation should immediately carry out the enumeration, i.e. immediately reduce the price of Ukrainian gas and the corresponding housing and utility tariffs, in proportion to the reduction in rent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u100	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the second amendment that was made. The second amendment that was issued, please vote. [[18:16:24]] For 213 The second amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The second proposal, honourable colleagues, to vote on the draft law as a whole without taking these two amendments into account, in the second reading and in general. I'd like to make up my mind. [[6:16:52]] For 205 No, I didn't. Second offer. Colleagues, we see voices. A second suggestion came forward to be rereaded for the purpose of taking him to the chat room after consultations on Thursday. Please vote. That's what they said. I'm conscientious. Rereading the second reading with a view to considering it on Thursday. [[18:17:21]] For 310 The decision is taken and approved. Guys, stop, stop! We still have a moratorium on the earth. But I want it now. And the election. I want to say now that there was now a wise decision: we have another time to hold consultations, and we will be discussing this issue on Thursday. Now we're going to look at the moratorium, the question of a moratorium on land. Colleagues, there is an offer to continue our work to consider a moratorium on the sale of land. Is it supported? I'm making this offer. Colleagues, we still have a moratorium, and we still have local elections that haven't happened. Colleagues, we need to consider these two important questions. Please, two questions, I'd like to ask the moratorium, continue the session and ad hoc. I propose that we consider three issues: moratoriums on land, local elections, and the release of judges. We need to release the judges who have to be released, three proposals. Please, Your Honor, please support this proposal with regard to these three other issues. Please, about the ad hoc procedure, please support. Please vote. [[18:19:14]] For 260 A proposal was made with 260 votes. We can work properly with these laws. Dear colleagues, draft law (registration number 3404). We do. Please 3404 please, Taras Kutov. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider. Please vote on the summary procedure. Please vote. Please vote. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. [[18:20:18]] For 193 Please, Taras Kutov, on short notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u101	Two minutes for such a complex question will not shed light, so I will try to be concise. Dear colleagues, the committee has considered the question of the continuation of the moratorium, which has been discussed repeatedly in this room, which is very emotional today in Ukrainian citizens, especially in rural areas. The committee decided, held an effective discussion and decided to support Bill 3404 of my authorship, as well as the authorship of an additional 20 people's deputies of the agrarian committee for the extension of the moratorium for 1 year. Also from this proposal, we request the Cabinet of Ministers, which will become a commitment to the Cabinet of Ministers, to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council by 1 March the following year a law on the circulation of agricultural land. Having little time, I wanted to focus on why one year. To be honest, we've considered all six of the bills that we've passed. The difference between them was how many years it took to continue the moratorium. We voted for an extra 3 years and another 10 years and so on and so forth. I want to make a note of that. A moratorium on the sale of agricultural land in Ukraine has been in place for 13 years. Over the past 13 years, we have kept Ukrainian peasants under constant stress. Once this land was burned and given to peasants for their contribution and for the work that they had done on that land. They were members of the farm people and so on and so forth. In fact, as is happening today, we associate this issue with political events every time — whether it's the presidential election or the election of the Supreme Council, some other event, etc. It's too politicized. We should finally tell the Ukrainian peasants if we gave them ownership of the garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u102	Please finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u103	Since I will report as the author and from the committee, please add time. Similarly, whether we have given ownership rights, and in fact ownership provides for, including, the right to manage what we have today is limited, whether we have just given the peasants the opportunity to use this land, rent it and continue to do so in no way. The committee held committee hearings in the summer. The result of these hearings was also the desire to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue. I think it's very important because it's a big question. Similarly, I would like to point out that the decision should be made in view of the following. I don’t know how, and we should always remember how the villagers respond to this question, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] Pay attention and respect, please, to the reporter. But the next thing you have to consider is that 400,000 pie owners in Ukraine will never again take advantage of that right and not use the right given to them by the state, 400,000 are 15 small circuit centers, because they've all died. And it should be remembered that these people should have the right to exercise this right if they want to. And the task of the Cabinet of Ministers, the task of the Supreme Council, is to ensure a fair, honest, effective mechanism so that they can exercise that right. It's quite obvious that there are no such premeditations right now. The prerequisites that now exist really allow you to manipulate the price, manipulate some legal nuances. The committee therefore decided by a large majority: To continue for one year the moratorium, but by March 1st, to see from the Cabinet of Ministers the Law on Circumstances of Lands of Agricultural Assignment to finally end the manipulation. If it's a lack of right to sell, then it's fair to say to people: we don't sell, we have these conditions, and we live under these conditions. It's not like we've been bothering people for 13 years and every time we've been trying to hold a Ukrainian peasant and use it for political discussions. Thank you. So I would like to support Bill 3404 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please have a brief discussion. Sign up: two for, two against. National MP Sevrukov, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u105	Please give the floor to Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, the distinguished Ukrainian community! The question of the land is extremely delicate, let's say a sensitive question for the Ukrainians, because we're a nation of farmers. And the question of the earth is it goes through the red line throughout the history of our nation. I want to remind you that in the work of Olga Kobilian Earth, the word "earth" is mentioned 70 times and in a different sense. And at the same time, I have 5 key thesis on the situation that currently exists. First, there is a real market for earth, no matter what it says. Two: all the arguments against, namely, whether the infrastructure is not ready, or not enough. Or the poverty of Ukrainians who can't afford to buy this land -- they sound and don't change for 10 years. Third. We have with you, dear fellows, 30 to 40 billion dollars under the ground that can be obtained by launching the land market. We can run it: either the land is a commodity, or we can run it, we can transfer the lease, we can set it up, and by the same way, we can create, well, increase the circulation costs. Fourth position. The cost of land is not only dependent on fertility, or, in our case, the best fertility in the world, it also depends on which infrastructure is nearby. So let's say elevators, ports, roads and all that. And that can be done only by investing, which can be done because if we make land or goods, yes, bank funds can be put on the line, or land can be leased. And the fifth. Honorable colleagues, land issues, or unresolved issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko Yuri, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u108	Keep your eyes peeled, gentlemen of the liars. That is not why our ancestors have spent thousands of years watering this earth with their blood, so that some, if you will excuse my words, will sell this land at some historic stage. Have a conscience! The earth does not belong to us alone. Where will our children, grandchildren, and great - grandchildren live?Oh, my God! Earth is a national acquisition, it belongs to our nation forever! The land will be bought by those who have money, and the land will be bought by enemies through the well - founded people. Russia will want to take the land out of debt. Europe takes the land for debts. The Babylonian Reform of 908 had already destroyed and killed Stolipin and destroyed the royal Russia. These are thousands of sales judges, lawyers who are going to form, they're selling bankers, they're thousands of people who are going to sell land and go into town. It's overcrowding cities, it's increasing unemployment again in the state, it's increasing crime in the state. Surrender! What are you doing? We never have a right, not in a year, not in three. Whoever's working on the ground, give it to everyone for 50, for 100 years. But I'm renting. We have no right to sell the land! I'll never get my signature and my vote for it! And I urge all the patriots of Ukraine to stand by the ground! Just as our brothers are now on the forelock, on Donetsk, on Lugansk they're watering this land with blood so as not to give it to the enemy, and you want to sell it — traitors! The words of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u109	Please, John. Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. Colleagues, please, let's just calm down a little bit. It's hard for people to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u110	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland for continuing the moratorium. But today we see a pseudo extension. Are you talking about a peasant? So four million villagers have only four and a half million hectares without a living inheritance. Are you talking about farmers? 39,000 farmers have 6.2 million, that's 10. We have 32 million in private property. How many agrarian companies do you think have, agroholdings? That's right, over 20 million. Today you're talking about the government working on the Land Circumstances Act? Colleagues, he's already on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. It's clearly designed to conduct an economic experiment and give away all the state land, which is 11 million hectares, from the auction. Who do you think will buy it? Right, agrarian companies, agroholdings will get rich. And we're creating new clans with you. We don't have much electricity today, Obgasy. We're going to have land monopolies. Colleagues, we need to develop hard work. Look at Europe, look at Poland. Today, it exports 1 in every 3 kilograms [third kg] of meat; it overwhelms Europe with fruits, vegetables, rosary, and scoundrel. What about us? We're used to living on the border with you. They took the land into three villages, planted corn. And that's how we live with you. We're against such an agrarian system and against the fact that the land belongs to someone. It must belong to the people of Ukraine. The Fatherland faction, if we vote in general, the Fatherland faction is proposing to replace January 1, 2017 by January 1, 2020. For four years, we have to continue the moratorium and continue to make legislative provisions for inventory, for land consolidation, for direct auctioneering, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u111	Thank you. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u112	Debenkov, opposition block faction. Of course, it is a very painful and very important question for the common Ukrainian people, for the common peasants who are the engine of rural development. The Opposition Block faction notes that we registered the initiative last December. But we also offered to introduce a moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. We also note that the market reform of agricultural land sales should take place gradually. Of course, the creation of transparent market mechanisms should be preceded by the granting of the right to govern the respective lands by ordinary Ukrainian peasants. Finally, it is important to note that peasants are deprived of land management rights through a fixed moratorium. Because of this, many tenants take advantage of the situation. But as a result of the fact that the market is opaque, as a result of the quality of the land, from its fertility, we need to establish a fair value of the land. And so let the owners of the plots in question decide whether to rent them, not sell them. Because we cannot limit the Ukrainian people, the peasants, to making decisions about their land. It's their property, they have certain certificates, land pies on land plots. Accordingly, they themselves must make decisions about renting land. In doing so, we must ensure proper legislative conditions in order to create a fair market value for the land in question. So I invite my colleagues to support this legislative initiative. We registered last year, we will now support and vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u113	Thank you. Please, factions who did not participate in the discussion. Oleg Easy, one minute. Then Ivan Miroshnichenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u114	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected peasants! The question of Ukrainian land is the question of the future Ukrainian state. This is a question of the future Ukrainian nation. This is the future of our grandchildren, our great-grandfathers. If we sell this land today, where will our children go? What kind of air will they breathe? Who will rule on this earth? So whoever offers to sell Ukrainian land offers to sell their mother’s land, offers to sell the Ukrainian soul, and proposes to destroy the Ukrainian nation. Therefore, the Radical Party faction requires the adoption of a moratorium on the extension of at least five years of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, and certainly only the Ukrainian people and no one else should be the owner of the Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u115	Please, Ivan, Ivan Miroshchenko, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u116	We're going to vote now. Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will vote in favour of extending the moratorium, and obviously, there are already well-known reasons for the absence of an inventory, the distinction in the boundaries of the sites, let us say, the legislative problems that we have all discussed. And, of course, they're important. Surprisingly, in the 13 years that there was a moratorium, we still haven't decided with you. But we will vote in favour of extending the moratorium for another reason more important to us. The land market has the right to be, if we provide our citizens, landowners, Ukrainians with equal rights to equal opportunities and alternatives to decision-making. We must focus on this as legislators and also as government. We must give Ukrainians who own land the opportunity to create their own business on their land: a family farm, a small small farm, long-term and cheap loans to enable them to become financially independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u118	Thank you. Please, Kulinich, "Rebirth."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u119	Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill would not be necessary if it were not for populism and politics in the local elections. We all understand that without this bill of 1 January 2016, the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land will not be lifted because there is no law on land circulation. And that's what the Earth Code says. There is no such bill in Parliament. It was easier for people to say in elections that from January 1st all the land would be bought by oligarchs and foreigners. I think we should do better in land law. Everything needs to be done to bring land legislation to that level, so that, when, in fact, the issue of lifting the moratorium will be resolved without any problems. That's why the Rebirth faction will vote in favour of the bill. But let's work on 2279, which we don't have voted on. 1159, a dead inheritance that we've been talking about for a year, and we're not voting in the session room for a year. This should be done, not by populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u120	Thank you. Singers, Gregory Smokin', please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, we are not talking about selling land today. We are talking about the need to give people the right today, and how to manage our land today. And I'm a pragmatist against sales. As a teacher, I understand that the earth is a commodity. But the time must come with this. We must adopt the Land Circumstances Act. Because even if we adopted the Sales Act today, so it would be, imagine, tomorrow we wouldn't have the right to sell, because there's no whole package of laws that would give us the right to consider the first law that we're talking about today. I want to tell you today, I've heard such a profoundly intellectual performance from the People's Front, and then I've heard people yelling at us in MP microphones. When the argument ends, the tone of the voice begins. That's why I call you to mind, to weight. Let's give people the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u122	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, 30 seconds. 30 seconds and we vote. Please take your seats. Michael Golovko, then Paul Kishkar, and we vote. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u125	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this question is too important for our society, especially for the Ukrainian village. Today the village is definitely against it, because remember that in the '90s we sold strategic enterprises and so-called privatizations, we were given vouchers, and eventually we got beggars, poor people, and, like mushrooms after rain, the oligarchs grew. Likewise today, the land is not a commodity, is the last value of our nation. God forbid, we'll sell it, we'll really turn our people into fortifications, hires, beggars on our land. We should think about how to produce and produce goods on earth, not sell land. And so to make our people rich, to make the Ukrainian village flourish, we now propose not only to increase the moratorium by more than one year, but also to adopt the Law on the Prohibition of the Sale of Agricultural Lands. Because the land is not a commodity is the last value of our nation. We urge you not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u126	Thank you. Paul Kishkar. And prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u127	I am the son of Kishkar Mikola Pavlovich, who is one of the first farmers in Ukraine in fact, and I had the privilege of working with him for a short time. I would like to point out that both then and now privatization, or the issuer of these pies, is a big lie. Because people are actually deprived of the right to sell this land. In fact, the continuation of such a moratorium, first of all, is a lie, no continuation is necessary. Read the law, it says: The moratorium is in effect before the Law on the Market of the Earth is passed. The continuation of the lease is equally beneficial for large producers. And I'm totally and completely in agreement with John Miroshnichenko that you give tools to make a small producer work. Give effective, cheap money to enable them to build this market. Historically, Europe has gone through the same stages of construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko of the BPP faction. There was no speech, there was a speech by the team of authors, a co-author, a botched one. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u129	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Sadly, we live in a society where myths give great weight. There's a myth that this year, it's supposed to be the end of the moratorium. This is not true, for, in fact, as many previous speakers have said, the moratorium acts before the adoption of a full law on circulation. But there are politicians who, by their voice and myths, try to make themselves popular, and there are politicians who write documents. Then our faction made a draft decree to extend the moratorium for a year in order to kick the ground out of these rascals, because it is known that the beef cow screams the loudest in the village. And yet, we propose this determination to vote and expect the government of a civilized European order of circulation of land, including the question of the filling of cadastral, instruments of transfer of land, much more. Let us now unite the hall in the pragmatic interest of launching market mechanisms to ensure the normal life of all those on board.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u130	Thank you. Colleagues, please, if you have to add from the committee, we vote. 30 seconds from the committee. Is there a need? Five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, to calm down, let's do a lot of emotional talk. What are we talking about, and what are we voting for? We vote in favour of continuing the moratorium. Everyone's calmed down, there's no sale, there's no need to eat the microphones, we just have to make it clear that we need to technically work on the whole thing. If we make a decision about not selling Ukrainian land forever, let's get out of it, but let's go to law school, let's give 6 million people who own pies today, let's say we don't sell land and end history. Let's stop manipulating the question. Give a technical explanation why for three years, or not five years, or ten years? One explanation is manipulation. We vote for the extension of the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have prepared for the vote 3,404 draft law amending Chapter X of the Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land as a basis and in general, bearing in mind that we are making decisions on inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. We vote with ad hoc, as we voted, we vote 3,404 in total. In general, we vote. [[18:45:08]] For 309 The constitutional majority is 309. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on. Election questions. Draft law (registration number 3371, 3371-1). Then there will be the release of the judges of the colleague. There's a proposal to consider these bills in a reduced procedure, please support 3371, please support. Short-term procedure. [[18:45:37]] For 196 Please report 196.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u133	Dear colleagues! Your attention is paid to Act 3371 on the provision of a vote in the successive elections in the cities of Mariupole and Krasnoarmeysk. The need to implement this law is due to the fact that the elections in the two major cities of Donetsk have been disrupted and, consequently, 410,000 voters have been deprived of their right to vote, i.e. to elect local authority. I don't want to analyze the reasons for what happened today, let the law enforcement agencies do it. But I want to say that this is a direct violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, and the sooner we correct this, the better it will be for all. Because there are no winners or winners in this situation, since the image of our State was the first to be affected, and that means we have all lost. It is not in principle which of the two laws will be adopted. They're exactly the same. We therefore withdraw our bill and call on everyone to vote in favour of an alternative bill. Since, by making such a decision, the Supreme Council would indeed show that it was in a position to provide a legal basis for democracy in Ukraine and that all citizens, independent of political views and their place of residence, would be guaranteed constitutional rights. Thank you, and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u134	Please, Sergey Taruta. 3371-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to keep your distance. It's very important. Mariupol is a city that deserves respect. The magazine Spiegel called it the main symbol of the struggle for European democracy. Please don't leave. Now, on the essence of the matter, we know that 25 elections have not taken place. Unfortunately, to date, Mariupol and Krasnoarmeysk have been deprived of the right to choose and be elected on the 25th. After lengthy discussions on the Conciliation Committee, we have decided only that the elections in Mariupola and Krasnoarmeysk should be held within the framework of draft law 3371-1 in accordance with the existing Law on Local Affairs. on the 25 October elections as an unfinished procedure. Regrettably, the law did not provide for a situation where the territorial commission refused to accept the ballot papers and on that basis no elections were held. Therefore, we now have an illegal voting process. And together with the Central Electoral Commission, a concerted decision was made with all factions to hold elections in Mariupola on 15 November under the existing law. Why 15th? There's a controversy: 15th, 22nd. Believe me, it is very important for Mariupol and for Krasnoarmeysk that they be able to exercise constitutional rights within the framework of article 38 of the Constitution at the current date. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u136	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich. Please, the committee, Ruslan Knyazevich. Better to vote, well, if you want to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u137	I'm literally a few sentences. The committee has discussed these two bills in detail and recommends that the session room support the bill (number 3371-1) by the author of the Taruta People's Deputies, which is more complete. Since it first correctly specifies the name of these elections, the second, foresees that the ballot papers will be printed on them by the Central Election Commission and directly transferred to the electoral boards, and provides for the order of financing of these elections. The first bill, sadly, contains serious gaps in this section that make it impossible for the committee to support it. Please support the alternative bill with stroke 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u138	Thank you. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Then don't write it down! There's a procedure: two for, two for against. There's a need for you to sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Liniko, national MP. Lonely Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u139	Dear colleagues! Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. If we vote in favour of the elections in Mariupola, the pro-Russian forces are likely to win. So we're spitting on the work of those who liberated Mariupol from the separatist pro-Rose scum? Just let us wipe our feet on the heroism of these people! Because, unfortunately, the Ukrainian authorities did nothing to adjust the population of Mariupol to a pro-Ukrainian position. For decades, overactive Russian propaganda has been in progress for decades, and unfortunately it has had consequences. And today we need military-civil administration, active propaganda in Mariupola of all the pro-Ukrainian. Only then do the elections. And now that we're in the polls, we can lose Marioupolis again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u140	Arthur Gerasimov. Then Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u141	Dear colleagues regarding the elections in Mariupola, who unfortunately did not take place on the date on which they were to take place: October 25, those who had a bearing on these elections are well aware of the reasons why they did not take place. And that's a question, by the way, not for a well-established coalition, why these elections didn't take place. Everyone remembers this situation with the printing of ballot papers in Mariupola and in the Red Army. So ask the person who is to blame himself. With regard to the election question for the 15th, in our faction, everyone who has a bearing on this election is definitely against it. First of all, because the territorial and district election committees have been completely changed so far, we have to teach people. It's different. We've got to get the premises ready. I can tell you that there are not even any server rooms at the moment, sorry, on the territorial election committee. It's a state of affairs for today, for this moment. Yes. In addition, we have a petition from all the democratic forces of Mariupol for the postponement of these elections not earlier than November 29th. That's why I'm offering it. Whether to support the election appointment on November 29th, or at all, to postpone it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u142	Sergey Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u143	The word of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u144	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, we need to determine today what law we have passed, and so is the election. One example. They decided that there should be at least 30 percent of the women on the electoral lists, and then the big figure was that this percentage wasn't being implemented and they decided that this rule of law could be ignored, and then we had these wild cases in the Supreme Council, and I mean the collisions that we've discussed recently. But it's allowed. And one more moment. Dear colleagues, you and I have decided that discrimination must be avoided and that it is necessary to act in accordance with the rules of the European Union. We show tolerance in terms of everyone, not our own citizens, not our own electorate. The decision has to be made, that's for sure. And when you set people up in the Ukrainian system, I think we're going to push people away, give them the right to make a conscious, honest, democratic choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u146	Thank you. Please, Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u147	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u148	Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u149	Colleagues, the Self-Help faction clearly supports the elections in Mariupoli and Krasnoarmian. But we want to highlight two basic situations. The first situation is that the bill is actually unconstitutional. The vote, which took place on October 25, did not take place as such, means that the elections in Mariupola and the Red Army did not take place, so the CEC has to assume responsibility and perform the functions provided for in the law and make a clear decision that the elections did not take place. And make the decision to relaunch the actual electoral process in these areas. And 60 days from now, there will be a full election. That's the first one. And the second. How do you imagine voting on these elections now if, in fact, the TVCs that blocked the elections remain the same today and are not re-formed? This means that again this TV can block elections, and we don't have any guarantees. And the third. What special conditions can there be for these areas if we have a law that operates throughout Ukraine, the Local Elections Act? Colleagues, I'm asking for a consistent position. Finally, the CEC has to perform its legislative functions or finally retire. Let's assign a new normal C.V.C.C. from normal people who are decent. And we're going to run a full election in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u150	Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Then the national deputy Rybchin, then Eugene Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u151	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to address two potential mayors of Kiev. To the active Mr. Vitali Volodymyrovich, who is now in the Supreme Council Hall for some reason, instead of working for himself at the Kyiv City Council as he has. And to the possible future of Mr. Bereza, who, as a national deputy instead of talking about Mariupol, about the elections in Mariupola, is now talking to Mr. Klick. You think of your responsibilities directly that one thing is the other, and don't do it on television right now. It's about these guys. The circus, what's going on right now. It's about the elections in Mariupola. The elections in Mariupola are to take place without a doubt. But not on November 15th, because on November 15th, it's just going to be a farce. If this is voted even today, if even tomorrow the President signs this bill, there will be no real election to be held. There's got to be a complete new election process from scratch. Therefore, the elections must be held, but later, either at the end of November or at the end of December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u152	Please, National Deputy Rybchin. Then Eugene Borisovich Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u153	Aleksei River, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. First of all, the "Fatherland" faction supports the free, honest and fair will of the people of the Red Army and Mariupoli. Secondly, I want to apologize to the inhabitants of these cities for not being able to become an arbitrator and conduct this composition of the CLTC, and to make the elections in these cities pass. And now we see this clown in the Supreme Council. What's on the 15th is on the 29th. My personal opinion is that we should appoint new elections and start this process. Not the election. But I just want a decision to be made, whether it's the 15th, or whether we're going to be in such a hurry and running these elections in a way that I don't think is the 29th new vote, but we're going to be doing it. Or new reelections. The important thing for people to vote and it was a decent, clean, honest vote under, I think, under the new CLTC and under the supervision of international observers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u154	Please, Leonid, please, Jegor Firsov. Stop! Eugenius Geller. Then Jegor Fir's. From Eugene Geller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, thank you very much! 50th District, including Krasnoarmeysk, Rebirth. Vladimir Borisovich, I want to invite both you and the factions, so-called democratic, to vote in favour of this law and to hold elections. Every man, regardless of his passions, loves the Opposition Block, the Rebirth or the Peter Poshenko Block, has the right to express his thoughts and be heard by the State. Therefore, all the stories that people are not ready there today, because they support certain forces, I believe that this is the end of democracy in our country. I therefore ask all colleagues from all factions to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u156	Please, Yegor Firsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, I ask not to support this bill because it does not conform to either the law or the common sense. As a matter of fact, it's working. The elections were disrupted on 26 October. The President declared, let's say, the president of the territorial commission guilty, the social organizations of Mariupol accused the director of printing. But in fact, no one was held accountable. In fact, there is no guilty party, and we did not conduct a flight analysis. We haven't removed the reasons. What kind of elections are we talking about? Imagine this situation, that if we call for elections on 15 November, and they are once again torn down, what a shame it will really be. And I propose the adoption of a special bill in 2012, and you remember that the elections in five districts were then torn down, that elections should be appointed, that a new electoral process should be set up, that the local electoral commissions should be re-established, and that the territorial electoral commissions should be re-established.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u158	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko. Victor Krivenko. Then Leonid Yemen and we vote. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, we are either building a democracy with you, or we should be honest with ourselves that this is going to be authoritarianism. It's nonsense to even raise the question that elections can't happen because someone doesn't support them. How can you do that? We held the President's election because we needed the President's election. We've had our choices all over the territory. Then there was a discussion of whether or not to hold elections at all in Donbas. Thank God, they've convinced us that we have to go except to places where there's danger. And that's why elections are needed. But elections are needed with a modified commission. And Mr. Yegor Fries is absolutely right, it will be a fantastic disgrace. I don't believe we'll be running fair elections on the 29th. So we need to start a new process completely and not rush. Let it be mid-December, let it be mid-January. But first, there will be elections in Mariupola. And there can't be such a discussion that they don't support it. They support those who are supported. That's why we're fighting for democracy, not dictatorship, like Russia. So I ask you to set up a new election date and move it as far as possible in the process as possible to be transparent, to be an honest committee, and so that all the voters are heard and not distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u160	Please, Leonid Jemetz and we are preparing for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u161	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, there are specific names in the breakup of the elections in Mariupola. And these criminals must be held accountable. As far as I know, criminal conduct has already been violated, and the example should be that today several forgers have already received three years in prison. That's why the Constitution provides for a fundamental right higher than any law in a Ukrainian citizen to choose and be elected. And the state in power, in the person of Parliament, the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authorities, is obliged to ensure that Ukrainian citizens have the right to do so. That is why the elections in Mariupola are to take place. The law that is proposed provides for the possibility of avoiding the printing of ballot papers at Ahmet's controlled printery, because it will be a state-owned enterprise under the control of the Central Electoral Commission. That's why the People's Front faction is at the heart of the Constitution. The elections in Mariupola are to take place. Take place as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. To be completed. Ukraine is a great European state. Mariupol and Krasnoarmian are Ukraine. There are Ukrainians living in Mariupola. And the fundamental right of citizens of Europe to vote, to choose freely and to be free to be elected. The task of authority is to organize this process in high standards and democratically. So today, to say that we don't have to choose, because not the ones we're going to pick, I think it's completely not a European or a democratic approach. And I think we all need to avoid this, this kind of evaluation, and give people in the East, and the West, and the South, and in the North, vote and choose their local authority, but choose it honestly. So I am convinced that we must make this decision, and this is our responsibility. When they voted for us, the people of Mariupol, no one said that they were voting in the wrong way, they fulfilled their sacred duty. So I urge that we be honest with ourselves and with the citizens of Ukraine, no matter where they live. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, a signal vote of 3371-1, a draft law prepared by national deputy Tarut Sergey Alexiyovich. 29 numbers are defined there, right? 15th? On November 15th, we can't actually do that. All right, colleagues. On 15 November, a signal vote, the date of the draft law. May I have the vote? The vote is on the 15th. Now let's see what we can vote on. November 15, we vote. [[19:05:18]] For 113 The required number of votes did not come in. And the second proposal is November 29th. We're voting on November 29th -- the election. Vote please, signal vote. In the second reading and in general the signal, on November 29th, we vote, we vote. This is a signal vote, now let's look at the number of votes. [[19:05:49]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please let us concentrate again and vote on this issue. 3371-1 for the election on November 29th, November 29th. November 29th, the signal vote. Colleagues, the holy right of the people is to have the opportunity to choose their power, all of it. Please, November 29th. Please. Signal vote, please. [[19:06:43]] For 207 Please, Debenko's National MP, comment. Matvienkov, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u163	Dear colleagues! You know, I'd really like to ask, really, to drop a degree, even though there's a lot of boiling in the shower and I'd like to say a lot. Mariupol is a city labourer, a city of people who produce 10 per cent of our nation's metal. A city of people who draw on a huge part of the budget. This is the kind of attitude that we have today in this category of people that probably doesn't grace us as MPs, all of them together. I'll repeat what I said again. No matter who won, who lost, today this political game that's coming, our state has lost, we're losing state ratings. If we do not vote in favour of the elections in Mariupola soon, the word “democracy”, “democratic” can be erased from your life and forgotten because we are not a democratic society. Because we don't vote for people because they think you see someone who doesn't. I earnestly ask, let's just calm down again and vote 29, this is a compromise date for everyone. The opposition has so requested, and the coalition has requested it. Let's take the opportunity to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u164	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Make an offer, perhaps to unify the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u165	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I want you to understand that the elections in Mariupola took place mainly in the vast majority of the electoral process. One of the main stages, the final stage, the voting stage, unfortunately, did not take place for some reason. We're not assessing these reasons right now. But now talking about re-election is total nihilism and absurdity, because the old elections are not over. In any case, we're going to need, even if we theoretically assume these things, we're going to have to do it equally in a legislative way. And how to do that, no one knows. This is what is now being proposed, the only way to reverse the constitutional right of choice for the people of Mariupol and Krasnoarmian. If we don't do that, that means that there are still valid measures, active city councils that were involved in the referendums, everything else, it's true. That's why the only way to vote in favour of 29 is to give us the opportunity to vote again if it is to hold the mayor's election this year in December and this year to complete the local elections in Ukraine. Everything else from the wicked one and me, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u166	Thank you for taking the lead on the committee. Colleagues, we've heard the real situation from what Ruslan Knazevitch said. Well, how can we claim the right of people, the holy right to choose our power? Explain to me, please. I think that if we go perfectly within the selection framework of the electoral process, as the committee head commented, we are simply obliged to do so. This is a completely technical decision that the Ukrainian Parliament must make. So, colleagues, let's refocus, 29 November -- local elections, 3371-1. Ready? The signal vote is about to take place. I'm asking you to support all of this initiative, 3371-1, the vote. Vote, colleagues, November 29th. Please be supportive. [[19:10:32]] For the 220. Colleagues, there's a possibility, I think, I think there's an opportunity to vote. Colleagues, please do it again. Please come into the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote, and we will now vote for the release of the judges. Please, November 29th. On the basis and in general this proposal from. Now let's make a signal vote. Please, 3371-1, we vote. Vote. Signal vote, vote. November 29th, let's support it. [[19:11:28]] For 228 On 29 November in general, in the second reading and in general, I ask to vote. November 29th, 3371-1. In general, we vote. Appropriately, everyone's got a voice. Voting, voting. [[19:11:50]] For 233 The law's been passed. Thank you, colleagues. I think that everyone has the political power today to choose, to fight for people's trust, and to win. I wish everyone success in the local elections. Judges, colleagues. No, no, no! Come back! Judge! The last question is the release of the judges. Very soon, please stay. I'm asking you to stay, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Listen to the information, and we will now vote, the committee heads. Now, a minute! Go back to the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u167	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You had previously passed a draft Ordinance on the release of judges, which provided for the release on various grounds of 247 judges. Allow me to inform you that an appropriate appeal has been received today from the High Council of Justice. They ask 23 judges to be removed from the list, as they literally reported yesterday that these judges are now exercising justice in the L.N.R. And so the reason -- the statement itself, as before, can't be applied in this case, they have to be released for breach of oath. I, with your permission, will briefly remove these names, and we will continue to vote. This is Galan Nina Mikolayevna, Luhansk County Court of Appeal, Karasov Nadia Petrovna, Alcev City Court of Lugansk Region, Bulavina Natalia Ivanovna, Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk, Coltun Viktor Anatoliyovich, Sverdlovsky District Court of Lugansk Region, Alejnikov Vladimir Ivanovich, Sverdlovsky District Court of Lugansk Region, Batashov Love Alexiyevna, the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region, This is Tetjana Vasilovna, Luhansk County Court of Appeal, Kravchenko Tetjana Dmitrovna, Court of Appeal of Luhansk Region, Bass Olga Eugenena, Luhansk County Court of Appeal, Kuzmich Valentina Grigorovna, the Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk Region, Medvedev Andriy Mihajlovich, Court of Appeal in Luhansk. Reus Eugene Valeriovich, Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region, Stupina Jan Yuriovna, Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region, Kuznietsov Marina Leonidivna, Stahanov City Court of Lugansk Region, Larissa Victorian, Luhansk County Court of Appeal, Chargarov's Valentina Ivanovna, Stahanov City Court of Luhansk, Zinchenko Tetjana Alexiyevna, Luhansk Region Court of Appeal, Trufanova Marina Alexandrovna, Artemov District Court of Lugansk, Rublova Olga Grigorovna, Luhansk County Court of Appeal, Dubin Valeriy Vasilovich, Krasnodon District Court of Luhansk, Aerial Alexander Volodymyrovich, Stahanov City Court of Lugansk Region, Excretets Leonid Borisovich, Alcev City Court of Lugansk Region, And Visnakova Anna Volodymyrna, the Preval District Court of the Luhansk Region. Thus, there are 224 judges left in the draft decree. Dear Mr. Head, since we have the third paragraph of paragraph 4 of the Judges, who are proposed to be released in connection with the acquisition of legal power by the Prosecutor. By the indictment of the court, I would ask, in accordance with the Law on the Status of Judges and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, to vote separately on these four judges. And according to the rest of the judges, vote on one decision with different rulings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u168	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u169	I'm a nickname, four names I'm gonna name right now, with your permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u170	Please read it. Please read it, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u171	The information came in, I don't know, it's not checked, about what they're asking me to take down. Malienko Natalia Volodymyrna, who works at the Court of Appeal in the Luhansk region. Jan Yuriovn's degree works in the same court. Karasian Nadia Petrovna, Alcev City Court of Lugansk Region And the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Batyashu Love of Alexiyevna, Zagradna Tetjana Vasilovna, Kravchenko Tetjana Dmitrovna. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u173	As well as Lugansk District Administration: Ostral Ludmila Petrovna and Solodnichenko Oksana Viktorovna Let's have them removed, Mr. Head, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u174	Please, those names that were bugged, we remove and vote on the committee's proposal with a single list. And we're counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u175	Four separate ballots, please. I was just saying, you've just been distracted by the judges, to whom I've acquired the rightful power, the rightful power, more specifically, the incriminating judgment of the court. It's: Kodima District Court of the Odessa Region of Přída Vasil Mikolajovic; The Warlord City Court of the Odessa Region of Marchenko Sergey Mikolayovich; Vovčany District Court of Kharkiv Region Božko Volodymir Mikolajovich; and the Kakhov Regional Court of the Tarants region of Herson, Sergey Petrovich. I ask them to release them by separate decisions, by decrees. And all the rest of us can make the same decision that we're making. They should be separate from each other, since this is clearly provided for by the release procedure. So that they don't press charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u176	Read the last name. First. We're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u177	Kodim district court of the Odessa district of Přída Vasil Maksimović Please release him from his position in connection with the acquisition of legal force by the defendant’s judgment against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u178	Vote please, colleagues. Vote. "For," please support the proposal, we vote discharge. Please support the release of the judge. [[19:17:54]] For 199 Colleagues, concentrate, please. Take your seats. Let's re-vote the release vote. Please, emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u179	Please be supportive. It's a unanimous committee decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m1.u180	Yeah, it's a release. [[19:18:25]] For 197 Colleagues, we don't have a successful vote right now. We are moving this question to the next plenary day in connection with this, to the fourth. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. There will be a morning meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
