ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u1	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! In connection with the faction and coalition consultation, 12 minutes later, we begin our meeting. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. Please register. [[16:13:00]] Dear colleagues, 301 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session open. In order to read the announcements, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andrew Parbia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to read the announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional MPs' union, Mikolayevščina. The interfractional MP, Mikolayevščina, was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kreminy Taras Dmitrovic. I'd like to welcome the Mikolayevshina and Taras Dmitrovitch reunion. Let's welcome the election with our heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. If you remember, we concluded the morning session without finalizing Bill No. 1409, the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I want to remind you that this bill is being considered in the first reading. I invite you, for 2 minutes, Victor Halasyuk's report, the 1409 committee head of profile, and once again, I ask the people's deputies to return to the vote on this bill, to accept it as a basis in the first reading, and then to work on it, because it is extremely important, and our actions are illogical in terms of what 1313 has adopted, and 1409 comes out in such a way that we have not yet considered. So please ask the Secretariat to invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, to prepare for the vote, and for two minutes, please, Victor Halasyuk has.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'd like a moment of your attention. I'll explain again the essence of Law 1409. He works in a package with Act 1313 that we just passed with you. If we do not accept 1409 now, 1313 will remain essentially a political declaration, the Russian gas suppliers will rejoice, the raw oligarches will rejoice. Dear colleagues, what is this bill doing in 1409? It's perfectly legal to predict what the economy is creating as a result of energy efficiency measures at the expense of non-budgetary funds. And at the expense of investors, a part of this economy can be made an investor for more than a year. Because if we don't adopt this law -- it's all limited to one year, no investor comes. Because you and I understand that the totality of energy-generating projects is 3.5 and more years. So, my fellow Members, I would like to remind you once again that these bills were drafted by a very important copyright team, including under the leadership of Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, a working group led by Mr. Dombrowski. We have united our work. And today this package of bills 1313 and 1409 has the support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is specifically ready to finance Ukrainian energy engineering. From the USAD, from the Reanimation Package of Reforms, from the governors of Lvivščina, Sumšćina, colleagues of honor, I very much ask you to come into the hall, to make the most of it, and to support this very important law in the first reading. Because if we don't, we're going to talk to you about where we buy coal, where we buy gas, where we buy gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u5	Ten seconds, finish. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, let's address the fundamental issue of Ukrainian energy dependence, and we will overcome this debt pit, the energy hole at the root, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a feeling we're about to have voices. So please take your seats, national deputies, please, on the factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I will now put to the vote the question of returning to the voting procedure under Bill 1409. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? On 1409, on your return, please vote. Please vote. In return, please vote. [[16:18:44]] For 240 Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for your understanding. I'm betting on the vote on Bill 1409 as the basis for the first reading. Please support the first reading. Please be supportive. Please support, on the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading. [[16:19:09]] For 247 Thank you, Your Honor, thank you all for your understanding. The task of tasking the professional committees with the development of these laws in common is 1409 and 1313. And it also agreed to make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, one is a personnel issue that does not need to be included in the agenda. It is the appointment of members of the Temporary Special Commission to examine the judges of the courts of general jurisdiction. This draft decree is being implemented by all factions of the coalition, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front faction, the Self-Help faction, the Radical Party, and the Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the matter? Is it necessary for a faction to express its position? You don't? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the Opposition Block. Please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u8	I ask you to give the floor to the deputy of Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u9	National deputy of Matvienkov. Comrades, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, there is parliamentaryism in any way. I understand that there's political relevance, I understand that there's a coalition, but it's a matter of not including members of the opposition in the control commission, but it's probably wrong and wrong. In any case, in the world, the opposition has the right to control power and the main function of the opposition to control power. You've got enough people on the board to make decisions, but you've got a system of control over work that's probably wrong. In fact, he is talking a lot today about the style of our Parliament's work. When there is indeed opposition to the arrival of foreign delegations and they say, "Look here we have a coalition, and here we have a corner of opposition, we have it, we have it sitting, we have it in general." It's probably the wrong approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u11	I would like to point out that there is always a need to respect the rights of the opposition, the honourable colleagues, me. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'm going to allow myself to comment on something, because not everyone in the room understood what the TSC was talking about. It is thought that our Supreme Council is creating a temporary special commission in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules. The point is that the Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority created a special temporary body that had to verify those complaints that had come to this commission's execution and propose, let's say, a certain vision, if there were sufficient grounds, a higher council of justice would respond accordingly to the complaints that are on this committee. The problem with this committee is that, unfortunately, Parliament is only trying to form it right now, because it's made up of three main parts: members of the judiciary, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament. But the problem with the commission is that after a month and a month and a half, it finishes its work, and so we need to determine whether we're going to continue its work, or whether we're still hoping we're going to get a full run.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u13	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u14	Or should we start a full - time work of the High Council of Justice, to which the committee has already reached its conclusions? And without the High Council of Justice for the future, we will not be able to move evenly, but this step, as a temporary one, obviously needs to be done, because Parliament owes itself to society, and then probably if we join in this step, we need to continue the work of this commission and we can work in parallel with the Higher Council of Justice, which will eventually respond to the conclusions that the TSC will draw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u15	Thank you. I don't think there's any need for further discussion, it's made by a coalition decision. Yegor Sobolev, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u16	Friends! I'm offering to see these people. We are taking a very responsible step. These people will point to the judges. They have to be crystal, they have to be effective, they have to be industrious. Let's call them to the hall, talk to them, and we'll keep making decisions. Not to vote for a cat in a bag.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. Dear colleagues, from the Radical Party faction, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Parliament must now decide to form its part of a temporary special commission for the examination of the judges of general jurisdiction. Today, formally, this committee does not exist, in reality it does not work, because there is no quorum, five members of the committee from Parliament are not appointed. The commission’s mandate ends in April. 300 applications for judges, the illustrations include judges who tried people in Maidan and put them in jails and so on. So I propose, without delay, to vote on the decision, to choose from the Supreme Council members of the interim commission and in front of. start the judges' illustration process. Because Midan was behind the cleansing of the judiciary, in reality this cleansing is not happening today. The ability to start the work of the commission will allow these judges to be illustrated, and then the adoption of the new law on the judiciary will enable us to reload the judicial system. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, these decisions are put to the vote. — Registration No. 1836. I'm asking you to get ready. It doesn't need it because it's staff, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda. A decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment of members of the Temporary Special Commission to examine the judges of the courts of general jurisdiction (registration No. 1836), introduced by the factions of the coalition. According to part five of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to appoint members of the Temporary Special Commission to examine the judges of the courts of the general jurisdiction of such persons: Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich, from the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko; The First-Majesian Oleg Alexiyovich is from the faction of the Political Party of the People's Front; The skull of Antonina Alexandrovna, from the faction of the Political Party of Self-Help; Yuskov Tetjana Leonidivna, from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška; The title of Mikolayovich is from the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland faction in the Supreme Council. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on Decree 1836. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[16:27:55]] For 225 It's a non-adopted decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who didn't have a card? Ladies and gentlemen, when the card didn't work, we need it. I'm making an offer because the national MP couldn't express his position during the vote, so I'm making an offer. Attention! Sit down! Attention! I propose a return to the vote for the Order (registration 1836). Please determine by vote. [[16:28:52]] For 235 We're back. I asked the national deputies of Ukraine today perhaps to make an exception. But I stress that the voting process needs to be taken very seriously. A draft regulation of 1836 is put to the vote, which I read under the transcript on the basis and in general. I'd like to make a decision about the vote. 1836. 1836. Please be determined on the basis and in general. [[16:29:37]] For 236 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law "On the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Business Subjects associated with the Realisation and Export of Timber" (registration No. 1362). First reading. Please. There is a proposal to vote, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified procedure. Be my guest, dear fellows. [[16:30:29]] For-200 Decision taken. Please report to the People's Deputy of Dobrodom Dmitry Evgenovich. Please. Let him report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u20	Yes. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, to your consideration of the changes to the Ukrainian Act "On the Specificities of State Regulation for the Activities of Entrepreneurship Subjects". Simply put, it's an important document that's going to eventually bring about an order in our woodworking sector that doesn't even breathe into the system anymore, but, in principle, is destroyed, and our carpentry, first of all, and the forests are still like a resource to be shipped abroad under different shadow schemes. I would like to point out that this bill, these changes were developed by a group of over 10 members of all coalition factions and the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front and the Radical Party and Self-Help. What we're proposing to change. First, it is such a precious breed of wood as oak to finally legitimize and call it a rare and precious breed. Because the density has already ended, we only have 2 percent instead of 15 and 16 and those that are growing. And it's all going to export and it's not an account. Secondly, we want to set up a moratorium on the export of forest sharks. I emphasize a round and log with a 10-year deadline to finally pick up from the knees a woodworking branch that can't buy wood at auctions. 260 companies closed down during a quarter of the timber industry. At that time, exports of wood abroad increased by 30 percent in just eight months in 2014. That means we just become a resource asset by destroying this sector. So I ask you very much to support me in my first reading. I've got some.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u21	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u22	There are some comments. And I think that between the first and the second readings, they should be taken into account for the terms of entry into force of this law, for example, from six months to one year. I think between the first and the second readings we're going to meet with an expert environment, with interested MPs, and we're going to sort this out. But today I ask you to support the first reading as a basis. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u23	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u24	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Main Committee has considered this bill of 1362 authors of Dobrodomov, Tomenka, Laska, Matkowski, Musia, Kupri, Chapinoga, Edna, Antonishka, Dubinina, Dirova. There's a positive conclusion from the anti-corruption committee. Scientific expertise suggests work. But our committee believes that it should be accepted in the first reading, because it is fundamentally important for the rebirth of finished production in the woodworking sector. Dear colleagues, we are now exporting an unprocessed roundwood. It's raw material, we have very small added value. We need to create conditions for the production of furniture and paper in Ukraine, so that when you come to the store, you can buy the products of a Ukrainian manufacturer. Not like today: we buy imported products on foreign loans. This needs to be radically changed. The introduction of such a temporary moratorium, taking into account a certain delay, as the bill has already been discussed with the authors, will allow it to create incentives for the deployment of processing products in Ukraine. In addition, our committee is planning a series of additional incentives for such productions to be located in Ukraine, including through the cost of loan lending and so on. So, dear colleagues, if we don't want Ukraine to be a raw supplement of the world and Europe to produce ready-made products, not like the one today that only grain, metal, wood and so forth has to be exported, we need to adopt a temporary ban, during which time to systematically reform the sector and involve foreign investors, including national investors, in processing. I want to give you an example of the historical fact that once in Ireland, famous economist John Kerry demanded that unprocessed wool be exported to the death penalty. Why? Because they knew that this would protect them if they stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u25	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u26	The result was a temporary embargo that allowed the country to develop. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the draft for second reading will be finalized, there will be a transitional period of six months or a year that will allow for the inclusion of productive powers, so the committee requests that the bill be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, two for, two against. Before that, I want to give Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko, please, for a minute, as to the position of this bill. Sign up. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u28	Lechenko, Freedom. I thank you for giving us the floor to this point, because we tabled Bill 1096 a month before this bill, which, in fact, regulates these relations, and the bill that is now being considered is essentially a factor in our bill. So it's a shame that our bill was excluded from the agenda, in fact, some kind of plagiarism is happening, it's completely unclear and why it's being done. I understand there's someone out there who wants to fight. But there's one major difference, this bill, 1362 really does impose a total ban on the export of all wood, not just oak, and that's the right thing to do. But not only do we need to impose an appropriate ban, we also need to work to stimulate the timber industry so that today there are enterprises that can process this wood. Not to be the case, a year later our woodchoppers are bankrupt and they're privatized as they tried to do a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I am asking you all to support this bill. We need to impose an embargo on the removal of unprocessed forests from Ukraine. We've had tens of years of cutting wood and moving abroad unprocessed, and in 23 years of independence, we've destroyed the woodworking industry, in my different Borznian region, in Chernigiv region, and in fact, in Montenegro there was a lot of woodworking enterprises, today -- there's no. Because why put woodwork when you can get a round out of the country, and in some countries, Europe pays for us to bring this round to them because it's convenient for them. And then we drive here to Ukraine of furniture and everything, and we cut out barbaric forests, and then we spend billions on saving Carpathians, to stop floods, to restore this forest, and most importantly, woodworking is creating hundreds of thousands of jobs. In order not to be able to destroy the forest sector, since they are today making huge profits in the export of unprocessed wood, it is suggested that a transitional period be set for forest enterprises to be prepared for investors to come. Because if investors know that they won't be able to export unprocessed wood, they won't be able to export a round that they're going to have to recycle it in order to get our wood, they're going to have to put it in there, and they're going to put everything else in there. Otherwise, people's jobs will never be. So I propose to support the bill on the moratorium on the removal of roundwood and unprocessed wood from Ukraine. Stop cutting our forest! We need to plant a forest! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u31	"Block of Petra Prashenka", Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, let us be careful because this is an extremely strategic moment. And I support my colleagues, but I'm not going to talk about what's wrong and what we should do next. The trouble with this bill, which has been in motion for 10 years, is that we didn't talk, we didn't explain what we should do next. Next, we need to make a state programme to support the woodworking sector. We need to make sure you get the best import equipment, not the Soviet Pillars. We need to work from Mineconomy, with Minfin to each region, how we're going to rebuild the economy, especially in depressed regions. Because disaster: 10 people make money in the woods, and everyone else is miserable. We need all the people living there to make money from it, the whole of Ukraine. We had the best furniture factories, we had a woodworking system. That's why we agreed -- and we're our colleagues from Freedom -- who, by their own bill, pushed the subject into discussion, this is the copyright team, which includes all the factions of the coalition, that between the first and the second readings we're sitting both in the woodsheds and in the woodworking industry, and we're writing in terms of how we're moving the first six months, how we're moving the second six months. Because I've already given this example, it's a disaster. With poverty and dependence on Russia, we burn wood, burn branches, and it's as if no one needs it. So today we don't have to buy Russian gas, we don't have to buy African coal, we can transfer at least 4th to the solid fuel system today, then 3rd. In rural areas, in the mountains of schools, in the homes of the people, the FAPs should be burned, not with gas, but usually with solid fuels. So my request, and I, as one of the co-authors, head of the committee, confirm that without discussion with the experts, there will be no second reading of the law. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u33	Thank you, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u34	In support of the bill, please pass the word to Mr. Schlemk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u35	People's Deputy Schlemko. Then Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Krulko has handed over his helmet.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u37	And you don't listen carefully, do you? I said National Deputy Schlemko, then Mikhailo Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today, in Ukraine, the main forest users are the woodchoppers, the agrolissop, the warships, the national parks and the reserves and private forest companies. And they all have the ability to cut. And they're chopping off massively and illegally. Today, according to unofficial statistics, 30 percent of arbitrary cuts, when in Europe this figure is about 3 percent. Of course, if it were not possible to export whole wood abroad, we would not have one like it for green wealth without green coins. Our neighbors Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary are now practically free from deforestation in Tatras, Carpathians, because they have cheap raw materials from Ukraine. The Romanians are burning our forest like wood today. So it becomes clear that something has to be done. But I want to say that the most export shipments are made from Western Ukraine, and if so, we will soon see Carpathian only as mountains, not as the forest. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill in the first reading. However, we cannot go simply by banning the proper adoption of the law because all articles of GAAT SOTA 31, 35, articles of the Association with Ukraine are being violated. There are other forms of restriction called non-tariff restrictions. So we're proposing to introduce a zero quota, which is an embargo on supply, and for a certain period of time, this will allow us to maintain it without violating the relevant international agreements and to ensure that our forest is saved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u39	Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u40	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. The faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" generally supports the very ideology of this bill, because it has long been necessary to bring order and order into the forest sector. But I would very much ask that we vote on the basis of this bill and we vote on it as a basis, take it very seriously, carefully to prepare this bill for the second reading. Because there are those nuances that the previous national deputy of Ukraine was talking about. We have four main forest users in Ukraine: the Treeshospies, the forests that were the forests of the APC, the military woodshed and the National Parks. And that's why it's going to be necessary when we prepare for the second reading of this bill, to clearly write out the attitude towards these structures. In addition, we need to keep in mind that what we have forgotten is forestry, and we need to make this clear and clear. We also need to clearly divide the functions. We will have order in the forest only when the logging and maintenance function is separated, and the landings of the forest. These are the experts who are in the hall, John Rybak, who has worked hard in the forest sector, he will confirm. And here we need to take a very close look at this question, and it's very important. And at the end of my time, I, as the head of the district government, had twice signed orders to ban the export of rounds outside the area. You'd imagine the pressure coming from the law enforcement agencies right away, and here we have to be ready, and that's the right thing to do. The Supreme Council of Ukraine must make a decision so that those who have interests will forget their way into the corrupt food they count the forest. We will vote in favour of this bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u41	Please, People's Party MP, People's Front, one minute. Then Rosenblatt, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u42	Good afternoon! Honorable deputies. The People's Front faction is ready to support this bill, but at the same time, we would like to point out that there is a decision of a government committee in which a government committee proposes to review a number of its observations during a committee meeting in the Supreme Council. This applies primarily to certain articles and points that are provided and set out in section 1, paragraph 2, of the bill, which provides for changes and the determination of the order of confirmation, acceptance, the passage of wood saws. In particular, the form is allowed when a certificate is available, a certificate of acceptance of timbers, a certificate of acceptance of timbers and the manufacture of pilomaterials, a certificate of origin for a lot of timbers, a certificate of thermal sterilization, and a certificate of passage. So in this point, we see that the point refers to specificization in order to avoid repeated understanding because of the content of the given position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u43	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u44	is it not understandable why in the legislation in question, in which cases, in which subjects need to be given, what certificates? So please count in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u45	When preparing for second reading. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenblatt. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I represent an area where we have more than 30 percent of our Ukrainian forest -- the wealth of our country. And I want to look to all of you to support this law, because today our country needs it very much. But this is a signal for all investors today to start rebuilding our woodworking sector. Today it is virtually destroyed in Ukraine. And if they really hear us today, and I think they will, and some conclusions will be made on the second reading, I'm sure we'll prepare a second reading of this law. And I think we are well supported today by all those who want to create jobs in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u47	Thank you. People's MP Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u48	Yuri Solovay, UDA MP, Petra Prashenko, 89th constituency. It is a district with a centre in the Verkhovinsk, Kosovsk and Sniethensk region that is a mountain district where forests constitute a fundamental value for the development of the region's economy. But what I want to remember is that it was the uncontrolled export of roundwood for 23 years that led to the fact that in 2008 Ivano-Frankivska, Chernivetska and Zakarpatsk region suffered the greatest flood that has ever cost our area and the Ukrainian budget over 1 billion dollars. In addition, today we have a situation where we had 20 woodworking enterprises in the district, of which 0 is left. Today, people living within my district are unable to buy even the most basic forest for their needs, since all the forest that is cut down is exported. And at the same time, people don't even have the ability to build themselves an elementary house.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u49	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u50	So I'm going to all my colleagues to support this bill, because it's not only going to allow the woodworking sector in the west of Ukraine to be restored in the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev 30 seconds. Then 30 seconds, National Deputy Rybak. His reply was called his name. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u52	It's a perfectly correct bill. The only request, Mr. Chairman, is to write it down under the transcript. Mr. Chairman! Vladimir Borisovich! Write under the stenogram, because this is not part of this second-reading project, so that we don't have problems with GAAT, with the WTO and the European Treaties, to introduce non-tariff regulation, zero export quota rate. Then we won't have any problems, because it's not in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u53	Please, National Deputy Fishback 30 seconds of replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I also represent Prefecture No.220, Travelling in the Cherniewec region there is a very serious problem with the forest. But there's some rule in this bill that doesn't make me happy: only sawmills are allowed. It's up to 70 millimeters thick and 22 percent wet. We could lose a whole branch of the calibration branch, from which buildings are built and exported in the form that is essentially ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted to point out that this is the first reading. For the second reading, comments were made, such as the National MP and Soboljeva, and so on. We're on our way. And Fish. During the preparation of any standard you can express as it will suit the interests of both the industry and Ukraine. Victor Halasyuk, please listen to the government’s conclusion on the matter. Please. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say that the second reading will take into account the government's proposals and certainly the proposals of the national MPs. But I urge you, let's take a real step towards moving the Ukrainian economy from a raw model to a finished product, so we can feed citizens on tax revenue, not on foreign loans. Dear colleagues, let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u57	Thank you. I think all the questions have been asked and will be processed for the purpose of preparation. Please, Your Honor, put to the vote. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill (registration number 1362) is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading, on the basis. On the basis of the first reading. Please vote on the first reading as a basis. First reading on the basis. [[16:54:33]] For 277 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to request a profile committee and assign a profile committee to prepare for the second reading of the initiative, which has been echoed by deputies, to process, including taking into account the positions of the government. Thank you. Next bill, second reading of the bill (registration number 1317). Dear colleagues, Mikola Knieżicki. I would ask everyone to listen carefully to the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u58	Thank you. Not long ago, we celebrated 70 years of memory of those who died in Auschwitz. In Ukraine an exhibition was opened by the National Memory Institute. This exhibition featured a portrait of Soviet prisoners of war, nearly half of whom were Ukrainians on statistics and who were being bullied by the Fascist executioners. When I looked at this portrait, I mentioned a picture of the abuse of Ukrainian military on the side of separatists and Russian apprehension. I've mentioned a lot else. I mentioned judges and Russian military officers who arrested Nadia Savchenko. Those judges who are now holding her in prison. I mentioned my fellow journalists, who were arrested by the Russian army on their way out of the Illoway Cauldron, handed over to the separatists. They were beaten to the ground so that they could never write again. Then they put water on it and were bullied because the journalist couldn’t drink it. This is what we do every day on Ukrainian television channels, in our films, in our series, we continue to do it now that people are dead. We do not pay attention to social judgment. We don't pay attention to the many references of ATO fighters, the heroes who say, what are we fighting for, for Russian oligarchs to keep making millions on Russian TV shows, are we protecting them here? Hence, the need for this law is now vital. The law is not being opposed by Ukrainians, and it is being opposed by Russians who pay Ukrainian lobbyists to keep their propaganda on Ukrainian channels. Our committee fully supported this law, supported by numerous amendments, and it was more than 70, 17 rejected it. We had an advisory board on this. We've agreed to make a few more rights, and the law is very clear that it's the only thing that we can do without a driving licence, but it's the only thing we can do. And the driving licence is not issued to propagandist films or serials that promote Russian forces. And we limit the number of people who harm Ukraine, we demand that the state print their list so that the channels don't show them. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u59	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u60	To make it. It's on the faction coordination board. I would like to make the amendments additional to the amendments approved by the committee that asked for national MPs. Amendment 30. Article 15-1 of the bill states: “The law is written in this way. ” "The Central Executive Authority, which implements state policy in the field of cinematography, ensures the implementation of this law by making a decision on the placement of films into prohibited distribution and demonstration in Ukraine solely on the basis of the signs defined in article 15-1 of the law." Regulation 54. "Translation of audiovisual works." Paragraph 9 of Part Two of Part Two of Part Six should be put in such an edition. "Translation of audiovisual works, movies, televisions, except information and information and analysis programs, one of which is a person," and the text of the amendment approved by the committee. Amendment No. 43, paragraph one, part six, in the following wording: "the distribution and, or demonstration of films listed in part one of this article, entails the application of 10 minimum wages for each case of such distribution or demonstration, made for the first time and 50 minimum wages, for each such case of distribution or demonstration." And to take into account amendment 70 of the Moroko People’s Deputy, which is the new part of the article in such an editorial. The National Council applies the envisaged sanctions for violating the requirements of Part Two, Article 6 of this Law, regardless of the attraction and organization of its officials, and other types of responsibility under another legislation, these words are deleted. Paragraph 1 of the transitional regulations read: "This law enters into force two months later to publish it." This is done to enable channels to buy foreign TV shows, not aggressor countries, and to start producing Ukrainian TV shows. I think it's all accounted for here. Another point I'd like to put to the vote is another amendment. This amendment was in the law, it was rejected by the committee, but the faction of the Radical Party requested that the amendment be put to the vote for confirmation. This is amendment number 28 of the current law, this amendment provides for, I will now read it, article 15.1. Article 15.1 "Prohibition, distribution and public demonstration of films produced by the Russian Federation, as well as those promoted by law enforcement agencies, armed forces, other military or military formations of the Russian Federation," and then by text. So the logic of our law was because 30 percent of Russian products are produced in Ukraine, in other countries, that we limit production to everything, regardless of origin, if it promotes the Russian army. Again, this applies only to films since 1991. The Radical Party faction insists on putting to the vote this amendment, which was in the law that was rejected by the committee, to ban all Russian Federation productions. The amendment made by the People's Front representatives, so the People's Front also supports this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a second reading procedure, the proposals are agreed upon in a comparative table, taken into account by the committee, and a separate amendment, which has been announced in Parliament's rostrum. I can see two hands. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u62	Guys, could I have your attention, please? Mr. Mikola, I am an absolute ally of this approach. We had a similar bill with Viacheslav Kirilenko. And my position is that we have to act hard and clearly here in a part of the product that promotes "Russian peace" in all its manifestations. Instead, you either confirm or deny whether we have removed new standards that, for example, will lead to your ban on my favorite shows. Because it looks like if Commissioner Maigret smokes a lot, it's a bad habit -- it has to be banned. And Poirot, whom I also watch, likes wine to drink, and especially in late times, is also a bad habit. I mean, to Putin, I don't think the propaganda of ignorance, harmful habits and alcoholism has any bearing. That's why I would do anything not with the "Russian peace," but I did make and leave the "Russian" movie and then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, our bill did not contain the points that my distinguished colleague, Mikola Tomenko, spoke of. These points exist in the law. That's not what we suggested, but I support Mr. Mikola's initiative so that there will be disrespect for his parents and ignorance to remove from the old law, from the voice. But it wasn't our law, it was the real Act on Cinematography.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a second reading procedure, there's a table that's given out, and there's some adjustments that we have to go through. So let's go to the amendments with you. Dear colleagues, please 8 amendments. Is the author insisting? No, it's not. Nine? [[B in m in s a l in]] The 5th is accounted for. For confirmation? Thank you. There's an offer. People's deputy Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm really asking you to make an amendment in accordance with the Rules. I'll explain why. Generally, the definition is given in legislation to determine really the terms clearly, with the very purpose of legal certainty and clarity. Now, I'm very curious, for example, about how to define and what are "public statements that pose a potential threat to the health of Ukrainian citizens," or "public statements that threaten the protection of citizens' rights." But most public statements can threaten the protection of citizens’ rights. So this does not create any legal definition, but rather creates an orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u66	Can I get an answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u67	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u68	What is the point of this amendment? You know the Inter Channel situation that the National Council warned about showing Cobzon, although there's no list of what Cobzon can't be shown. This amendment was designed to protect television channels that only on the basis of these criteria and only on the basis of the submission of an SDS or PNBO, Mincolt would have to list them and publish them on his website so that no one would blame the TV channels for showing one or the other performer. 'Cause tomorrow, if we shoot. So it's an amendment that's supposed to protect radio organizations. We can take it off, but then they'll be even more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u69	They insist on confirmation. Please 5 amendments, I'm putting to the vote the proposal for confirmation of 5 amendments. If she is not voted out, she will be expelled. [[17:06:17]] For 128 The 5th amendment's not confirmed, it's off. 6th, 6th. Is 1-a the amendment? The 1st amendment, the People's Deputy, is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u70	The amendment, we vote for them, we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u71	1st amendment, she's gone. The 2nd Amendment, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. It's counted. The 3rd is the Princess, yes. Please, Pauline, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u72	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues. We are obviously in favor of protecting Ukraine's information space, but the main thing is not to turn this protection into a censor in Ukraine. Today, observations were made by the legal head office of the Supreme Council, where there is a wide range of comments to the bill. In particular, the Legal Office says that contrary to articles 102 and 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, proposals have been made that change conceptual positions, including a series of amendments. So I'd like to put Amendment 3, 4, 10, 23 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u73	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that hiring Russian oligarchs and Russian soldiers will now do their utmost to break this bill. This is happening in the eyes of the entire country. As members of the coalition, we agreed that we were making the changes that we had made; and that amendment that we had not supported, but we agree with the one that Schrom deputy read. And we vote in favour of the bill as a whole, voting separately to confirm or not, the Bill of the Radical Party. And I insist that we move in this mode, because otherwise we make fun of every dead person, we spit in the eyes of those people who are protecting us right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. And so we have a table counted by the committee. I'm going to put an amendment to the vote. which was declared "Radical Party" by Oleg Laska, for the vote. Number 28. Please vote on the 28th amendment. 28 The amendment that Oleg Lazko announced is 28 amendments. [[17:09:20]] For-146 Please, Oleg Lazko, the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u76	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear fellow national MPs. Respectable citizens of Ukraine. I'm going to explain what kind of amendment you just didn't support, especially your self-help colleagues. We propose this amendment to prohibit the broadcast of any Russian production on Ukrainian television channels. Russia, when it prohibits importing Ukrainian cheese, does not choose Menski or Poltavski cheese, it prohibits all cheese. Russia, when it prohibits the import of Ukrainian potatoes or salt, does not choose one or the other, they all prohibit the import of Ukrainian products. We believe that the aggressor country's production shows have no right to spin on Ukrainian canals, because according to Princely, it is a matter of spitting into the soul of those who are protecting the country today. So I ask you to go back to the vote and support our amendment to ban the broadcast of Russian shows in Ukraine in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u77	Let's vote for the return. As for the 28th amendment, consideration of 28 amendments. Back to 28 amendments to this bill. Back to the 28th Amendment. [[17:11:05]] For 222 Please don't make it. Please. Okay. Please return to the 28th amendment for return to the 28th amendment. Back to the 28th amendment. [[17:11:38]] For 235 I'm betting on the vote number 28 amendment that we've just returned to. [[17:11:59]] For 238. It's all accounted for. Now. And now I'm voting on the bill as a whole. Oh, no? After the repairs? Dear colleagues! I'm putting another amendment in for confirmation. The 3rd amendment was announced. The third amendment is for confirmation. The 3rd confirmation amendment was under the transcript, please. Three, three, confirm three. Yeah. [[17:12:42]] For the 220. Look, dear fellows. One more time. Let's do you know what? Look. Everybody take your seats. Everybody take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues! It's an amendment that defines an aggressor's state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u79	And call the deputies to the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u80	What we did in our resolve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u81	Mr. Mikola, I'm asking you not to take the floor until I give it to you. Take your seats, if you want to vote, let's do the voting, not run around the hall and then say two votes is not enough. Please do it again. For coming back to see the third amendment. Please be sure about the vote, about the return, please. [[17:13:39]] For 245 We're back. I'm betting on the vote on the approval of this amendment, 3 amendment is confirmation. She was considered a committee. A colleague. As for confirmation of this amendment. [[17:14:05]] For 246 Confirmed. The 4th has to be confirmed, too? The 4th has to be confirmed. Come on. Colleagues, once again, take your seats. For confirmation of 4 revisions. Amendment 4 - Confirmation. "For," it's counted, that's the 4th amendment. Confirm 4 revisions. [[17:14:33]] For 241 Dear colleagues, the committee has been prepared. Agaphonova, national deputy of Agaphonova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u82	Please place 36 amendments on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u83	We've already reached 36 revisions. That's good. We are now voting on 36 amendments and voting in general. Please, the 36th amendment is for confirmation. Thirty-six amendments. Oh, a minute. Stop the vote, stop it. Committee position. 36th. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we have now done an extremely important matter, you have no idea which, let's join forces and vote for this bill as a whole. If we do that, we're finally going to change our information space, we're finally going to recreate the Ukrainian movie, we're finally going to. In principle, we're going to change the Ukrainian politics and life of every Ukrainian person who's been manipulated by imperial money, by imperial order, for the rest of his life. What we now have on Donbas is the result of our television. The people who took arms and killed us, the Ukrainians, are the people who are the victims of this Russian propaganda that wasn't just leaking through the information channels, through the movies, the shows, through the cobzons, through the concerts. Let's build up courage now that we're halfway there to change the life of our country. I ask you to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u85	Honorable National MPs. The honourable national deputies, to your consideration, to consider your vote, are brought to the vote by Bill No. 1317 in the second reading as a whole with the amendments that have been issued and which have been confirmed, and you have heard. In total, 1317. In the second reading and in general. Please determine by vote. Please vote. In general, in the second reading. [[Applause]] [[17:17:49]] For 259. National MPs Sumar and Lazko, I ask you to behave accordingly. Thank you. We just saw two factions unite. Thank you. Next question is the agenda, Your Honor, Bill 1496. Yes, Your Honor, I'll ask you all to take your seats, please, and don't leave the hall. Return all deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. And please take your seats for an effective job, dear colleagues, please. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening, paying attention, strengthening social protection for internally displaced persons. Important Law 1496. On the first reading, I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs, on a reduced procedure. [[17:19:50]] For-189 Please report to Denisova Ludmila Leontievna, director. Reporter and also from the committee. Please, five minutes as a reporter and head of the committee for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this bill that we are currently considering. This is a very and very important bill for today that deals with ensuring the social protection of our citizens, who are today forced displaced. Today’s job market situation is critical. Today, more than 542 thousand unemployed are registered. The number of vacancies is about 38,000. So there's 14 people for one job. At the same time, the issue of the employment of forced displaced persons is a major one. Because the condition that they get help from the state for renting housing and housing services is their employment. To date, 953,000 displaced persons have been registered in the Ministry of Social Policy Register. Of these, 1 out of every 11 persons — 85,000 and a half — needs employment. Therefore, the main purpose of this bill, which I am referring to your judgment, is to improve the existing norms and new standards of introduction in order to expand the employability of our internally displaced persons. What steps are being taken. Arrangements for the employment of a person. Employers are compensated for internally transferred labour costs for almost six months and some for 12 months. But it is predicted that if compensation is granted in six months, a person should work there and be expected to work there for 12 months. To compensate a registered unemployed person from an internally displaced person, the loss of moving to the area where such a place has been found. And there's also compensation for the cost of medical, drug treatment, if that's what it takes to get them to work. Set aside the cost to the employer who will employ and provide additional education for almost a year. That's 10 living minimums, or 12,000 180 dollars. Exclude proportionate financing of public works. To date, this cannot be provided with a very poor local budget. And that's why we're cleaning it up, we're offering to clean it up, and maybe it's local, for example, like the Poltava area did, or at the expense of the unemployment fund. Measures to improve the competitiveness of the individual and to improve his or her qualifications. We extend the category of people who can receive vouchers to receive additional education. These are internally displaced persons and military personnel who have been released from service, and those who have returned from an antiterrorist operation who have become disabled, and they need a new education. What I want to say is that the committee has considered this issue and is proposing to accept it as a basis. I want to read this amendment to this law under the transcript because it was prepared when 76 bills had not yet been adopted, which already counted one rule. This applies to taking into account my amendment to exclude from the bill the amendment to article 26 of the Ukrainian Employment Act, the review of the rules, the sources of funding, the compensation of employers for youth employment costs. And I propose to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. It's not necessary from the government budget, it's just the unemployment fund's costs, it's almost 85.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u87	Please. Done? Dear colleagues, two for, two for against. Please. Grigory Nemira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that any initiative has a prospect of implementation if the funds are provided. The reporter has just said that the government budget does not need it, and this is provided by the Fund for compulsory insurance. But she herself claims that the initiative requires 87.7 million dollars. The author of the bill gave no evidence that such funds are in the National Insurance Fund. What's more, this 3.5. 3.1 million dollars is projected to be removed from the government budget and transferred to the fund. So we have a real danger under the terms to provide and strengthen social protection for temporarily displaced persons, we're actually putting in a pre-emptive situation where there's no funds to ensure that this law is implemented. So I would warn against the hasty adoption of the law immediately. And certainly, the basic work is about finding the necessary funds. We need to avoid populism for populism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u89	Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u90	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u91	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u92	There is no one in this room who is unaware of the extraordinary serious strain that the State of Ukraine and Ukrainian authorities are currently exerting in solving the problems of internally displaced persons who have been forced to move. But it is very important to give a few more figures. Of the more than 700,000 displaced persons who were forced into employment, there were 40 thousand and only 7,000 who were employed, which is of course not a normal figure. And I think we can really agree here with Mr. Nemira here that the issue is not only in the adoption of special laws, but also in the enforcement of laws that exist and that the government, in particular, and all the other structures involved, are making integration programs and advertising programs so that the displaced are not simply able to, but they wanted to work, it's very important, and they're being helped here. And by the way, here's where we should thank the heads of government who are trying to help the movers not only by looking for housing, but also by looking for work, because that's the key. And another very important problem, here I want to talk to Mr. Speaker. It seems to me that we have to insist from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the government finally appoint the head of the agency for the solution of Donbas' problems, which will be the coordinator for all problems, including displaced persons. It's not normal that there's no head of this agency today, that it only exists formally, that all the problems of the movers lie solely with the Ministry of Social Affairs and so forth. And that's why no law on this subject is going to prevent us now if all the government structures, and we don't get together here, we don't coordinate work to solve the problems of the displaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u93	We have a deputy minister, he can comment, and then he's head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft passed by the Ministry of Social Policy is supported. And I'm asking you to vote for it today as a basis and as a whole. This law is essential, and these standards will help us find employment, interest employers in taking these displaced persons to work. Thank you. And from here, there's going to be a full social security fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u95	Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful that you have really come to know this bill because you make your comments. But I would like to say that the money in the Social Insurance Fund’s budget will not appear, but will only come when we vote on this norm and the budget of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will be approved by all expenses. That's why these 80 million in the Fund's budget -- they are, but they're not foreseen in these articles. Please support the forced displaced people who need this job. And this bill will give them the opportunity to work. Please vote on the basis and in general, as proposed by the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u97	Thank you. There's a problem that needs to be settled, there's the position of the profile committee, there's the position of the ministry. They agree. So I think it's absolutely appropriate to vote for it as a whole, and in the execution process, if there are certain things, we can vote for it as a whole. And if there are any things that need regulation, Please, whoever didn't take the floor, please take the floor. Yuri Lewchenko of the non-fractional. From the faction, please express your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u98	Leuchenko, Freedom. I'm asking you very much, the bill is correct, in fact, correct. But there are important points to him. I very much ask you not to rush, as we have now become the norm in the room, to rush and adopt bills that have technical-legal errors that then make it impossible to implement them, but to allow them to work for the second reading. You can take a 7-day cut in the next week with the corresponding amendments. So there is the insistence, please, to send for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u99	I think to find an understanding, I see some factions are not ready to vote for the basis as a whole. So in order to do a good job and make no mistake, then please let me put the vote on the basis of it. And by a reduced procedure, preparation for second reading. A word? Stop voting. Please, Svetlana Vojciekhovsky, National Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u100	Colleagues, we've been talking here all day about how we're interested in having our people socially supported. Now that there's such an important bill, give the Ministry of Social Policy and the government an opportunity to help these displaced people who are forced to leave Lugansk and Donetsk. How to privatise Easter, we don't want to help Donetsk and Lugansk, we need to look at it for another week. The government is asking you to help them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, please. Are there any other positions in the factions? Part wants to vote. Come on, dear fellows, let's do it this way. I'm going to lay the groundwork as a whole. If he doesn't get the votes we'll vote him in preparation for the second reading. I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[17:34:36]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I put the vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. On the basis of the first reading. [[17:34:57]] For the 250. Decision taken. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to prepare for the second reading. Please vote on the preparation for the second reading by a reduced procedure. [[17:35:22]] For 237 Thank you, the decision is made. Next, please. Dear colleagues, the last bill in the agenda, registration number 1218, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of penalties in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. I'd like to make up my mind. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[17:36:08]] For 190 Decision taken. Please report to Ukrainian national deputy Victor Vasilovich Chumak. As reported by Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! Bill 1218 on the restriction of life imprisonment is reported. I would like to say that this is a new project in our parliament, it has. He's more than two years old, but we've approached him several times, but the stormy events of the 13th and 14th years haven't allowed him. This bill, which in addition to its effect on the humanization of punishments, aims to solve a series of very practical tasks. For you and me, his position may be theoretical, and for a very large number of people, it's their fate and it's their further freedom or not. The point of the project is actually very simple. First, amendments to articles 64 and 68 of the Criminal Code are proposed to exclude the possibility of sentencing women to life imprisonment, now only pregnant women, persons accused of committing, preparing or attempting to commit crime and crime are only proposed, and those who did not participate directly in the commission of the crime and the crime remain unresolved. These changes ensure that a more de facto approach to the choice of punishment is implemented, and they will be consistent with the crime itself. There are a number of practical problems that solve these changes. Like 60. The main scientific and expert office says that article 68 needs to be amended so that this article already stipulates that there is a punishment for preparing for crime that cannot exceed half the harshest punishment imposed by the sanction of the article, and not more than two thirds. But the courts treat the law in a completely different way. If there is no penalty, they apply it to the fullest extent, that is, to eternal imprisonment. And a person who has not actually taken part in a crime can be imprisoned forever. And there are some 30 people in Ukraine who are currently serving their sentences. The second block of problems that this law solves is the apprehension.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u103	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u104	The introduction of this law to international standards, namely: it is possible to be conditionally released from prison for life imprisonment after the actual execution of three quarters of the sentence as much as possible, i.e. practically after 19 years of imprisonment to review the sentence. But such deprivation or reduction of punishment may not be less than 25 years of imprisonment. Why is this so suggested? Since the Council of Ministers of Europe has adopted and the European Court of Human Rights has adopted a series of provisions concerning the European Convention on Human Rights, which stipulates that if there is no system for the review of prison sentences, such a system of criminal punishment does not correspond to the Convention, namely, the 3rd article of the Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention. It is therefore envisaged that these changes be made in order to bring them into line with international standards. I would also like to say that, according to statistics, people who have been reviewed or released after being sentenced to life imprisonment in the form of life imprisonment at will are the least attracted to repeated responsibility or the least subjected to repetitive crime because they fully understand that a relapse will lead to punishment completely and without a right to review. So I want to ask you to support this bill. At the same time, I would like to say that I agree with the decision made on the committee on organizers, which may sometimes be more dangerous to performers, punishment cannot be applied as much as a review. And that's what we had in mind at the committee meeting. We agreed. I would like to ask you to support this bill in the first reading so that we can work on it and accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u105	Thank you. Please, Andrew Cosemykin, head of the profile committee. Next, two for, two for against. Then, who will not take part in the discussion, I will give my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u106	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, I am the draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the application of penalties in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty, and I repeat, articles 64 and 68 of the Criminal Code, 81st, 82nd of the Criminal Code and 154th of the Criminal Enforcement Code. I will not repeat what my colleague and colleague have said and co-author of this bill, Victor Chumak. I just want to say that the changes proposed in the project are capable of ensuring a more differentiated approach to the choice of punishment and the principle of justice and protection of vulnerable categories of offenders. The amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code are aimed at ensuring the implementation of the European Committee's anti-trafficking standards to prohibit the setting of automatic restrictions on convicted persons. I also want to say that the committee considered this bill at the meeting and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. The main scientific and expert office notes that the bill needs to be finalized. But we are supported by the Penitentiary Service, which is about to work with this future law. So I'd like to ask you to support the committee's decision. Moreover, today, more than 3,000 petitions from Ukrainian citizens who support the adoption of the bill have been received by the committee on this bill. And I hope that the people's deputies will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u107	Thank you. Sign up for two, two for the other. Andrew Teteruk, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u108	Please pass the word to Anton Gerashchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u109	Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u110	The People's Front faction supports the Chumak MP's draft in the first reading. But what I'm saying is that we're going to add our papers because Mr. Chumak has offered a very large number of suggestions that we can't agree to and we're going to propose to the second reading an amendment to reinforce the responsibility he's proposing to lower.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u111	Please, National Deputy Ogniewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u112	I give the word to Oleg Vasilovich Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u113	Please, Oleg Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u114	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear friends, the bill, the idea of the bill is correct in time, and we need to support it in the first reading. Yes, there are situations that need to be improved and discussed together. I particularly refer to those who have come to Parliament from the bar profession, and this law should be adopted, refined and adopted in the second reading. I urge all of you to support the first reading and vote in favour of this bill. The Radical Party supports this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u115	Please, National Deputy Gordjeev Andry Anatoliyovich, Party of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u116	Andrew Gordjeev, Hersonian. In general, by supporting the bill, I would like to remind all of us that the Ukrainian Security Service has detained a woman recently, a sniper who confessed to killing 10 of our military personnel. And so I have a question to the author about humanizing her responsibility. Can we agree with that? And the second observation is that it's still the responsibility of the organizers. How can Yanukovich today suffer less punishment than Zharchenko, who was the executioner? That's the question. So with such remarks, if I fully support Anton Heraszczenko in such a case that we can correct these flaws before we read the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to make a statement? Please don't, yes. I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall, and they've discussed enough, and there's a committee conclusion, there's been a report by the rapporteur. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, colleagues. I understand that there is a common position on first-reading voting. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? For your vote, Bill 1218 is introduced, as the basis for the first reading. Please vote. 1218 on the base. On the basis of the first reading. [[17:47:00]] For 197 Dear colleagues, then I propose that this bill be sent for re-reading. To read again. But I'd like everyone to focus. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats for the vote. A proposal is made to re-read the bill (registration number 1218). To read again. Please be supportive. Please support me, for the first time again. In general, all the suggestions. To read again. [[17:47:51]] For 212 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision, otherwise he will be regarded as rejected by the Rules. Colleagues, we can't move on another day unless we vote for it. Again. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please invite people's deputies to the National Assembly Hall. Return the author to work. Another possibility is to get the author back to work, your respectable colleagues. Come on in, people's deputies, we're voting. To amend the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Please vote. [[17:49:03]] For 217 Thank you, Your Honor, the bill is not accepted. He is regarded as being rejected. Please announce. Please, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, I would like to report first of all on the creation of the 8th Inter-Frakional Union "Ukraine in NATO" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the leader of the inter-fractional "Ukraine in NATO" inter-fractional association, has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Hello. [[Applause]] In addition, I would like to announce that, on the basis of the decision of the faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljaška, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, from 5 February 2015, the national deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, is excluded from the faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, for actions that discredit the name of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the violation of the oath of the Ukrainian National Deputy. The decision of the faction is reported in plenary, and an extract from the protocol is added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m1.u119	Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, the agenda for the evening session is exhausted. I hereby announce that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you for your work.
