ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, break time is up. Please come into the hall to continue our work. An important block of laws required by the IMF, and I'm very much asking you to enter the hall, prepare for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We have a lot of work today, an enormous amount, we have enough to do. He had just held a meeting with factions and groups, and they decided to settle down and work hard enough to resolve urgent issues. So please, Your Honor, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we're not enough to get started. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. And I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, who are in the pool halls, who are in the buffet, please come into the hall and prepare for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the registration of the evening meeting. Please, colleagues, please register. Please turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[16:12:51]] 328 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, while national deputies take their seats, there may be an offer. We have four decrees for the release of judges. In my opinion, it's not at all a question of debate, it's age, as far as I can tell. Is there any objection to these decrees made by the Head?? That's what I'm thinking. Now, let's try, let's try to vote the signal, there's four rulings on the release of judges, and we'll see just the number of votes until the MPs take their seats. Is such an offer accepted? It's not a controversial question, it's not a conflict. Right? Please, colleagues, let's vote, take your seats. So far, it's a signal check, how many national MPs we have to make effective decisions, colleague. Please, let's vote for the release of the judges. Let's vote yes. [[16:14:21]] For 175 Dear fellow national MPs, please take your seats. Please, factions and groups leaders, invite your national deputies to the hall, there is much important work to be done. Please, colleagues. Ready? Let's do it again in test mode. Now, if we get the required number of votes and put four non-conflict parliamentary rulings to the vote on the release of judges. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Please support, this is an emergency. Signal, please vote. Signal vote: let's see how many deputies are in the room. [[16:15:37]] For 212 Well, almost, almost. Dear colleagues, here we have the head of the High Council of Justice, who has brought us in accordance with the law of submission. And accordingly, four Parliament decrees were adopted: 2337a, 2337a-1, 2337a-2, 2337a-3 and 2337a-4. Once again, I emphasize that these are orders for the release of judges. Let's try again to see if we have enough votes to vote on these rulings. Please, colleagues, release the judges. Please, once again, whether we have the required number of votes. Vote, vote, faction leaders invite the national deputies to the hall. "For" is a release, it's a signal vote on the release of judges. [[16:17:10]] For 218. Not yet. Yes, please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Please take your seats. Once again, I want to inform you that the High Council of Justice has given us an application for the release of judges who have reached the age limit. It's not a conflict. There's an offer to consider it now. Please go to the roslan Petrovich Knazevitch podium. Please explain the situation, Ruslan Petrovich, while the deputies take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'm pointing out that we're not currently discussing the selection of judges on an untimely basis, I'm addressing again, we're not choosing judges on an untimely basis. We, in view of the fact that, together with the efforts of the session hall, we have adopted amendments to the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, which has been made possible by the fact that this two-pronged constitutional body has finally begun its work as an effective one for me. And I am pleased to welcome you to the meeting of the newly elected head of the High Council of Justice, Mr. Igor Benedisuk. Let's welcome him. This is the person who is now, in fact. Mr. Miroshnichenko, give us a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you the head of the High Council of Justice of Benidisuk Igor Mihajlovich. Igor Mikhailovich, welcome to the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u7	I'm, frankly, in the small amount of time since which the Superior Council of Justice is responsible for making decisions, they're actually sitting in the daily regime. And even today, literally, there was a meeting. Igor Mikhailovich, it is said, has come from our chariot to this meeting, where the basic question that is being considered in the agenda is the question of the release of judges. Friends, you recall that according to the Constitution, there is a clear constitutional order for a judge to be released. The Supreme Council may decide to release the judge in the event that there is an appropriate application of the High Council of Justice. The Higher Council of Justice, taking into account the grounds provided for in the Constitution, recommends and, accordingly, refers to Parliament for such a type of dismissal of a judge, or, if there is no such reason, does not refer to Parliament. We're looking into it. We have received in the Supreme Council a whole series of submissions, which have been drawn up in four decrees, projects that will be broadcast to you today by the chairman at the session on the release of judges. The vast majority are the judges who end the term, the term of office of the judge or who take the opportunity to resign and have all the legal powers to do so. Therefore, there is no other political motive for voting. Remember, we always had a discussion about it. In the event that the issue of the release of judges for a violation of an oath has been considered, there are no such judges at this time; instead, the High Council of Justice, at the request of Parliament, is further considering and conducting a review of such judges as were proposed by the previous composition of the High Council of Justice, and Igor Mikhailovich and I have agreed that once such a check is completed, they will promptly send the conclusions of such a check to Parliament, and we will be able to deal with the matter in more detail by then. In accordance with the Rules, I would like to point out that in the event that the grounds for the dismissal of a judge are voluntary for the resignation or termination of the term of office of a judge, the participation of the judges in the Supreme Council is not mandatory, their presence is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u8	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Is there a need to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u11	Yes. I have, Mr. Head, a stenographer only. As we consider Decrees 2337a-2 and 2737-2, one more point to the fact that recently the High Council of Justice has been asked by the Committee to recall the application against the judge of the Netishin City Court of the Hmělník Region of Hodorowski in connection with Hodorowski's coming to them on the appeal of the earlier resignation application. Ask for the return of the material in connection with this without consideration. And a similar appeal came to them regarding the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Postural Victoria Gregory, who also withdrew the earlier application for resignation. He's asking us to leave her and her materials unattended. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, there is Decree 2337a. There is a proposal to vote it now if there is no objection to this decision. 2337a — About the release of judges Let's try the vote again. 2337a: Order for the release of judges About the release of judges, colleagues. Let's try the vote. Please. 2337a: The release of judges Signal vote. Vote for it, lady. Oh, that's better! [[16:23:34]] For 245 Thank you. Great! Colleagues, then I'm putting a 2337-a vote on the release of judges. Please vote. 2337th Order on the Liberation of Judges We all vote in favour. "For," "for," that's the function of liberation. [[16:23:59]] For 259. It's been decided. 2337a-1. 2337a-1, except for two judges who withdrew their applications, I understand. Huh? And Tier 2, right? Okay. 2337a-1, please, in the given version. Vote, colleagues, 2337a-1. This is the release of the judges. Vote. The release of judges. [[16:24:47]] For 269 It's been decided. Next. In Decree 2337a-2, with the exception of the two names: Postural Victoria Grigorovna (she withdrew the earlier application), and Hodorowski B.V. the judge of the Netishin City Court of Hmielnicke District, and the Postolo Victoria Grigorovna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region, the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region. With the exception of these two names, 2337a-2 please vote in general. Please support, this is the release of the judges. [[16:25:38]] For 271 Decision taken. 2337a-3 in the version given to you. Please vote 2337a-3, please vote. [[16:26:03]] For 272 Decision taken. And 2337-4. Please vote on Decree 2337a-4. Please vote, this is the release of the judges. [[16:26:25]] For 273 Decision taken. The judges were released. Dear colleagues, there was a draft of the decree that you discussed. Andrew Volodymyrovich held a meeting. We've considered it. I'm making a proposal: a draft regulation amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, where it is noted that we are continuing this session until September 1st and we are writing out a mechanism in which case an extraordinary meeting can be convened. Draft Decree 2374a, which is consistent with all the leaders of the factions of Parliament. We talked about it at my meeting. 2374a. Colleagues, please support this motion for a ruling, please vote. 2374a is a calendar plan. Draft Decision as a whole to amend the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. 2374a. Please be supportive. These are organizational issues, basically organizational issues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[16:27:46]] For 229 This is a change to the calendar plan that we are not closing this session, that's all. And the second question is: a draft decree on the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. We have a decision to make today. Please, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. 2218a. In short, we vote and move on to the agenda. The number of votes is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u13	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Decree-Law, which is registered in 2218a, provides for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the third session of 10 weeks; committees, commissions, factions, groups of 6 weeks; electoral work for 4 weeks; questions for the government for 10 hours. The third session is scheduled to be concluded on January 15, 16th. Next. Of that. Notice that Parliament's work in January 16th is made up according to article 19 of the Rules: the first week is plenary, the second week is committee work, factions, groups and so on. However, I would like to stress this, because many deputies were interested in this issue. Taking into account the proposals that are now coming from the MP factions, it appears to be an appropriate week from January 4 to 8, to be foreseen for work on committees, commissions, factions, groups. And the week from January 11th to January 15th is spent for plenary meetings. With these technical regulations, I ask for the support of the draft proposed by the regulatory committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, thank you. There is a proposal, based on the report and the rights that Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik has made, taking into account these rights, to accept as a whole the draft Decree 2218a is a draft decree on the calendar of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation. Taking into account the rights declared by Pinzenik Paul Vasilovich under the transcript. Please vote, colleagues, this is the next session. Third session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. Please support our calendar plan. Please support with taking into account the rights in general. Vote please, colleagues. [[16:30:20.]] For 260 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Colleagues, let's move on to the important decisions that we need to make. Draft Law (Registration No. 2029a) amending certain laws of Ukraine in the area of municipal services. This is a package of IMF and World Bank laws. Reported to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Babak Alona Valeriyovn. Please, Alona Valerievna, on the rostrum. I'm asking everyone to settle down. We had just met with factions and groups and decided to work hard enough. So I'd like to take this into account. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u15	Dear National Deputies! A government bill amending some of Ukraine’s municipal services laws (registration number 2029a) was designed to enforce Ukraine’s commitment to the World Bank for the purpose of involving investment resources in the development of municipal infrastructure. Especially water-, heat. The project was supported at the first reading on June 18, this year. The Committee’s second reading included 20 amendments, 12 of which were taken fully into account, partially and editorially, and 8 amendments were rejected. Suggestions and proposals were taken into account, which applied to those comments that were made before the first edition. In particular, who will determine the profitability of utility tariffs, how the differences in tariffs will be compensated, which has not been compensated to water-, heat-, enterprises so far. In particular, the second reading dealt with the issue of determining the marginal level of profitability of service providers. That is, we've taken into account the prospect of a gradual transition to stimulating regulation and pricing. And it has been decided that profitability should be determined by the authority that is authorized to set tariffs in accordance with legislation. In fact, they will be set apart for each host. Which will stimulate businesses to implement investment projects and reduce their costs. It was also envisaged that by July 2017, in fact, with all enterprises, the State would have to compensate for the difference in tariffs that exists today. You know, these days it's 5.4 billion dollars that are irreparable for the difference in tariffs between economically-based costs and the tariffs that are being applied today. So, taking into account the remedies that have been proposed, we suggest that you adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2029a, there is a table distributed, the committee held a hearing on the matter and approved it. I have a proposal to vote on this bill, we've already done a lot, we've done a lot, we've done a lot, actually, of this law. We have, we have repairs. I see. Dear colleagues, please 2029a on second reading and in general, please vote in favour of the committee's decision. Stop voting. What do you insist, colleague? At the repairs? Come on, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u17	Amendment number 3. Dear colleagues, please, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u18	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. No, well, I thank you, however, that after all the shouting, even if we were allowed to go through the Rules here, because the Constitution has changed completely against the Rules. So this law that is now being proposed for approval, although it has just been said that it somehow regulates the establishment of profitability and so forth. In fact, nothing is fixed until the second reading. As in the first reading, the value of the subject’s profitability was completely unprofitable, so the subject would be offered in the second reading. The second reading suggested that the level of profitability would be determined by the authority that sets the tariffs, right? And how will it be defined? What method? Nothing's specified. My 3rd amendment says that the methodology for calculating the size of economically sound housing costs should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And let the Cabinet of Ministers take responsibility for the fact that monopolies and various cartels will put excess profitability and abuse the Ukrainian people even more than they are now. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u19	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, today, the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, article 31 says that tariff formations are set by the Cabinet of Ministers for local government authorities, and for licensees who are set up by tariffs, the national regulator is actually setting up a national regulator. Today, honourable members of the people have been asked to include the word "tariff methodology," but today's legislation speaks of this as the order of tariffs. And it exists today, and it's already on that link. So the amendment was rejected as being regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u21	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u22	This is the key edit that is. What is it? The general record, which is in the law, we don't mind what's there according to the profitability. But profitability to what? It could be up to the cost, up to the traffic. What's cost-effectiveness for? So it's very important to us, it's a parameter, it's this, I agree with my colleague here. And the second. What level? What if it's 200 percent? So we had a similar offer that was still very clear. Profitability to cost. And it doesn't go any further, so it's really economical, so it doesn't go too far. Please, what's your position?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u23	I thank you for that question. Once again, I'm paying attention to what we've been up to. We pointed out that profitability is established by an authority authorized to set tariffs. And then we have in the text that this happens in a way that's defined by legislation. For the controller, it's the controller that sets this order. For local self-government bodies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Why the law didn't tell us anything about the profitability, or the base, or the size of it. Because today Ukraine is moving on to the so - called incentive tariff regulation. This means that the base will be defined as the regulatory asset base, and the profitability is defined as the weighted average value of the capital. These are completely new approaches to regulating prices of natural monopolies, we're going gradually. So we didn't start to specify in the law how this is defined, but we did a reference to order. These orders are being prepared today by our national regulator, the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're already starting to do this in electricity, and we're going to do this in the utility. That is why this approach was guided.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats now, dear colleagues. This is about confirming the 3 amendments mentioned. It is completely objective, and I ask it to support this 3 amendment. That's a confirmation. Dear faction leaders, please pay attention. On confirmation of the 3 amendments, please support it, it was counted. Is it rejected? Then it's not support, and it's a rejected amendment? So then I emphasize that the 3 amendments are not supported by the committee, and the committee asks not to vote for them. Please be sure the committee asks not to vote for it. The committee shall not vote in favour of this amendment, nor shall it vote in favour of this amendment. [[16:39:38]] For-44 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, have taken their seats. 2029a in second reading and in general I ask to vote, 2029a in second reading and in general. And if you'll excuse me, Your Honor, please vote. 2029a in second reading and in general. There was a position on the amendment, and we didn't support it, and we moved on. [[16:40:07]] For 261 2956 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. 2956. Reports Andrew Ivanchuk, head of the profile committee. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u25	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee is proposing a bill to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that this bill proposes to improve the financial situation of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for selling natural gas to our country's enterprises. The second reading committee received six proposals from the legislators. Regrettably, most of them did not support the fact that they had changed the substance of the bill proposed by the government. But you should pay attention to the amendment proposed by the Chief Scientific and Legal Administration, a certain editorial clarification, and this proposal is considered by the government: except for objects that are not subject to privatization under the law. So, dear friends, the Committee on Economic Policy is bringing this bill to your attention for a second reading and asking to be supported by the committee, with some legal remedy that I read under the transcript. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u26	Thank you. I think it's a common position. Please, 3rd, don't insist. Four? They insist. 4th Amendment, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u27	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Nevertheless, I asked that the entire presidency, especially the presiding Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, abide by the Rules. And then, when MPs insist on second reading their amendments, they put the matter to discussion and vote. It's the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. Please don't break it, because this morning we broke the Constitution completely. Now essentially the amendment. When this law was presented in the first reading, Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk reported that it would seem that he would allow the property of individuals who did not pay in the budget, who were stealing people’s money, and then did not count the corresponding funds, and thus, in fact, influence the market. It was only about private enterprises that were already privatized, that it was said not to apply. Yeah? I say that this law will make secret privatization. So my amendment is to confirm Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Let this law apply only to those legal persons who have less than 50 percent of the state’s property, then let it work for them. Here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, the 4th Amendment rejected by the committee, is not supported by the committee. Please vote. The committee does not support 4 changes. Does not support 4 changes, the committee does not support them. I didn't. [[16:43:58]] For-45 Thank you. 45 votes. 5th Amendment, Vojcitsicka, National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u29	Olena Babak, 4th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we very much request your attention and support for Amendments 5 and 6. We very much hope that it was just a mistake or not to finish the committee. Real suggestions, why these adjustments should be counted, 5ths and 6ths. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003, which says that the moratorium on the enforcement of property was only because we did not have a clear, transparent mechanism of enforcement. Now we're taking it down, and we're not proposing a mechanism. So we suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers do so, and at 6am, that the Cabinet of Ministers make proposals for legislative changes so that this procedure is clarified. Actually, there was a moratorium because there was no transparency. We're shooting the moratorium now, and we're not giving up the mechanism. We've just studied very carefully the position of the Constitutional Court, and very much. And the IMF, by the way, supports these changes, both 5-y and 6-y. Please be very supportive of these changes, it's very principled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u31	Please, the committee, Andrew Volodymyrovich, right on two lines, and 5th and 6th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u32	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable authors of Amendments 5 and 6, I wanted to say that the Economic Policy Committee 5 considered the amendment in part. As for Part Two of Part Two of Part Two and Part Four of Article 5 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, the Cabinet of Ministers essentially took account of the matter. With regard to the involvement of the authorized authorities that you are proposing in the administration, they are involved in bankruptcy according to the legislation. Therefore, this amendment does not need to be included in the body of the bill. Now with regard to amendment number six, the national MP Vojcitsky. The committee rejected the amendment for the following reasons. You propose to enter a special order for the enforcement of property. We think that the committee members think that it's pointless to design it because it's contrary to the logic of economic policy. The important thing is that order is determined by other legislation, especially bankruptcy legislation. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u33	Thank you. Are you insisting? Five, six, you insist? Please, 5 amendments are partially supported by the committee. The amendment is partially supported by the committee. You heard the committee's position. The author insists on full support. The committee is supported in part. [[16:47:15]] For 106 I didn't get the required number of votes, 106. Next. Amendment number six. Are you insisting? 6 amendments rejected by the committee, too. 6 committee dismissed, the committee does not support it. Please, colleagues, identify yourself. The committee does not support 6 changes. [[16:47:52]] For 111 I couldn't find any support. Alexander Kugel, 2nd Amendment. The author is Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u34	Dear friends, please listen carefully. We demand that, not in part, Julia Timoshenko's rights were taken into account, but entirely. What does it predict? It prohibits the removal of a moratorium on their privatization, which is not offset by the budget's differences in tariffs on heat and central water services. If the state wasn't counted, what kind of forced privatization might it be? This is the principle for our faction of amendment. If it is not fully counted, we will not vote in favour of this bill. If it's counted, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u35	Please. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Golovo, Alexander Volodymyrna, the 2nd Amendment of the People’s Deputy, Timoshenko, is part of the committee. We can't, we agreed only on the part where the bill is kept. Given the complete amendment, the bill is nullified, because the list of exceptions is expanding too much, and it does not have the substance of the bill. Anything you can do, we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u37	Thank you, you heard. In part, quote, so to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u38	Read? The act of moratorium set out in part one of this article does not extend to the enforcement of property, except for the property of enterprises in respect of the relevant legislation, is not subject to privatization, to repay the debt owed to Naftogaz National Shareholder Company and its subsidiaries, which provided natural gas on the basis of licences.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u39	Thank you, Your Honor. 2 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Timoshenko, which is part of the committee. Considered, partly by the committee. Please, Sergey Sobolev. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, we agree with the part you've taken into account, it's absolutely right. Only there is one rule missing: to calculate the debts that the state has before them. These are state companies. Like "Vinitzitecommunergo." Well, if the Vynitzitecommunergo State hasn't returned it and it's being privatized. In that sense, we agree with the first part. But we have to do the math, and we vote, absolutely logic is stored in the project. We've all supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u41	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u42	Sergei, I can't make a vote unless there's been a proper decision by the stenogram committee. I counted, I read, that's all I said, it's written. I can't set the government debt or the non-state debt rate. I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, it actually seems very logical. I suggest you put out with the correction that's been made. Andrew Volodymyrovich, come on, give us a generalization of this amendment with the addition that Sobolev said. If the state is to blame, it does not have to be the cause of the bankruptcy of utilities. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Sobolev! I repeat, we are now considering changes to the moratorium bill, not privatization. Not much, we made a request of yours. I said: technical law, except for enterprises that are not privatized. They put it in the body. The first part of Julia Volodymyrna’s amendment was taken into account. But I can't do it in this bill even if we want it to be legally wrong for us to have the state's debt to utilities to write into a body of enterprises that don't have a moratorium, Sergey. Dear Sir, your head! Please set amendment number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u45	Please, 2 amendments that are not supported by the committee, by Timoshenko. Please be sure, the second amendment. [[16:53:16]] For 112 Dear colleagues, please come back. I think this standard is perfectly normal. If the state is to blame for utilities, this is not the basis for the bankruptcy of these enterprises, the state has been calculated, they have been calculated. Please make a proposal for a second reading, and let's move on. Come on, let's move on. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Ivanchuk! Ivanchuk! Please, correct. With the observation of Sobolev. Add to the technical law the observations of Sobolev, Sergey Soboljeva, which he said. And with this observation in general in the second reading. Is it accepted? He did the right thing. 2956, in the second reading and in general, with the rights announced by Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk from the rostrum, and technical law, taking into account the positions of Sergey Sobolev, is completely objective. Please support in the second reading and in general, but please take your seats before that, please. Please, colleagues, in second reading and in general, according to the proposal I have just made. Stop. And the second technical law. That the realisation of property is in accordance with the order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All of it. Editing Ivanchuk from the rostrum plus technical law based on Sergey Sobolev's position. And what I just said. This is all included in the technical law regulations as a whole in this draft law. In the second reading and in general with the suggestions that I have just announced. I've just announced my proposals. We vote in the second reading and in general. In the second reading and in general 2956 with a proposal that I have just announced, colleagues. The secretariat shows that it is correctly worded. Please vote. Thank you. [[16:57:00]] For 251 The law is passed and all. 2873 Draft Act amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the nationality of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement continues its activities regarding the reform of the law enforcement system in Ukraine, as well as the addition of new criminal law standards. That's why we've considered the Kabmin bill amending article 216 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code to clarify the nationality of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The project proposes to amend article 216, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, by empowering the detectives of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to investigate the crimes provided for in article 366-1 of the Criminal Code in the first part of the fifth. There was no amendment to the bill. At the same time, it is important to pay attention to the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority on the project and to complete the draft with chapter III in such an edition. Mr. Secretary, I'm about to report to you all. "Finally and transient positions." First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. However, it takes effect after the proper functioning of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine has begun and is fully authorized. The other one. Criminal conduct is revealed under article 366-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which, on the date of entry into force of this law, remains in the conduct of the internal investigation bodies and the conduct of these organs until the conclusion of the pretrial investigation, irrespective of the change in their jurisdiction under this law. I read specifically under the shorthand to make sure that this is taken into account when this project is accepted. In the light of the above, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the bill is given to you in 2873. I bet. Please take your seats, colleagues. 2873 Draft Act amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the subordination of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in second reading and in general. Heads to vote? Please, 2873 in the second reading and in general, please vote. [[17:00:21]] For 238. The law is passed. Colleagues, please take your seats. Members, please take your seats. Colleagues, 2045a is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and withdrawing insolvent banks from the market. Please, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, in our second reading, it is proposed to support the bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons and removing insolvent banks from the market (number 2045a), which meets today's current requirements of the fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons based on practical experience. The bill was developed with the participation of experts from the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and expert support from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. The position of the bill is largely enhanced by the second reading. A total of 377 amendments and suggestions were made. Of these, 137 are rejected by the committee, and all others are taken into account in whole, in part, or editorially. The Committee’s conclusion is to accept it in the second reading and in general. It should be noted that the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the bill is a transitional, preliminary step towards receiving Ukraine’s money from the World Bank’s debt to finance sector development policies of half a billion United States dollars. The bill is designed to improve the process of withdrawal from the market of insolvent banks. A substantial increase in the protection of the rights of investors is foreseen. In the area of guaranteeing payment for contributions, the contributions of natural persons entrepreneurs are included. The implementation of the bill will accelerate the start of payments to investors. The payment will now take place on the seventh day of the withdrawal of an insolvent bank from the market that will reduce social tension. A consolidated office model is being launched that will allow the fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons more effectively to manage the assets of insolvent banks in order to satisfy the larger pool of investors and creditors of such banks. And along with the National Bank’s curator, a member of the Deposit Guarantee Fund will now be sent to the problem banks, which will allow the bank to start analysis, find an investor at the point of the problem, and save, not eliminate, as it is now, a much larger number of banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u49	Colleagues, please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Stepan of Cuba, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u50	Dear fellow MPs, Amendment 312 contains a technical amendment, which I ask you to put out in this text: "The restrictions on the establishment of this paragraph do not extend to the bank's obligation to count the uniform requirements encountered, except those expressly provided for by law. In the event that the bank's debtor is a creditor of the same bank at the same time, and the money is used to repay the liabilities, in this regard, to the debtors of the bank under credit contracts and (or) to the debtor's issued debt securities." Thank you. It's a technical tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u51	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u52	If you can, at 312, I want to say that if it's not supported by chance, it's going to stay in the old order. What is she talking about? The fact that if the company had money left in the account and in the bank that was insolvent, and it had a loan in it, so that it could have this money, during the liquidation, to cover that loan. In addition, it is now proposed, including, if not credit, and the company has invested such costs under bonds, corporate bonds own. That's why I support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u54	Good afternoon! National MP Rizanenko. I propose that amendment 249 be confirmed, which requires State banks to participate in the withdrawal of banks, with 75 percent of them in the State. They are obliged to draw up certain banks. This norm is unacceptable, discriminatory, and it is possible for government banks to do so. And the obligation to do so is incorrect. Therefore, I propose that the amendment be made for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u55	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u56	I urge my colleagues not to vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u57	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u58	This is 249.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u59	249. Amendment, national deputy Rizanenko declared and urged colleagues not to vote for it. 249 revisions. [[17:06:26]] For-53 No correction supported. Paul Rizanenko, what are your adjustments?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u60	I propose that amendment 299 be confirmed, which reduces capital requirements for newly created transitional banks. The law provides for a capital requirement of 500 million, and we're saying that the newly created banks, transitional banks, require 120 million. So we're handing over transitional banks to weak banks. I'd like to ask for confirmation. Also, may I make other adjustments? Head? 299, 314, 318, 376, 377.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u61	Please confirm. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u62	I would like to comment to every amendment before the vote. In particular, 299 amendments. For transitional banks and receiving banks, there is now a minimum statutory capital ratio, as for working banks -- 120 million. It's working now, and we've supported the committee as if this position would be 500 million, because then there's no point for investors to take problem banks, to restore them, to be motivated. That's why we supported most of the committee. I'd like 120 y's when it's scheduled for confirmation, and I'd like you to support it. The committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u63	Of course, 299 amendments are supported by the committee. Paul Rizanenko offered not to support it. It's a similar position -- not to support it -- with the Ministry of Finance. I got it. Please, colleagues, Minfin, Rizanenko, don't support her, the committee has supported her. 299 for confirmation. [[17:08:36]] For-42 I couldn't find any support. Next amendment 314, please. Also for confirmation, 314. Same thing as 299. 314. [[17:09:02]] For the 18th. I couldn't find my support either, 18 votes. 376th. 318th, to be exact, 318th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u64	318th Amendment. When non-paymentable banks come out, they're made of garbage. Swop is when the currency against the bracelet goes to the second bank. And the point of this amendment is to take into account the rate for the day of withdrawal of the bank from the market, on the day of introduction of the temporary administration. So I think we can support it, and the committee also counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u65	You're confirmed. 318th, the committee considered Paul Rizanenko for confirmation and asked for no support. The Ministry of Finance, but the position is not to support it. 318, please. [[17:10:07]] For-42 This amendment, 42 votes, was not confirmed. 376th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u66	376th and 377th, they're uniform. The postponement of their implementation on January 1st suggested that the Savings Bank also be a member. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u67	the definition of the hall. And Minfin doesn't support this amendment. 376, please identify yourself. And take your seats, we will now vote on the law. Please. [[17:11:19]] For-38 There was no support for this amendment. 377th, analogous correction. 377 for confirmation. Kabmin and Paul Rizanenko do not support this amendment. [[17:11:44]] For-19 She found support. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. 2045a in second reading and in general, including the rights proclaimed by Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba. Please, 2045a. Take your seats, colleagues. 2045a accept in second reading and in general, taking into account the technical rights that Cuba said are technical and legal rights. Please, we're voting on technical law. The technical legal rights that Stepan of Cuba has announced. It's technical law! Please vote. "For," we support the law. It's an important IMF law. [[17:12:38]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next law is 2492. Please be quiet! Please! Thank you very much for your understanding. Let's keep it down, it'll be better to work. 2492: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Yegor Soboljev, please on the rostrum, second reading. Colleagues, please, half a ton quieter, please. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u68	Colleagues, it's a very simple law, it was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. You and I have created a National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and this law is included in all the laws that regulate the work of law enforcement agencies from the right to release their employees without the consent of the trade union to other rights provided for law enforcement officials. In fact, in preparing for the second reading, there was only one amendment, and it is very easy for us to make a decision in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Jegor Sobolev reported, draft Law 2492 was adopted in second reading and in general. Please take your seats. Please support and vote 2492, in second reading and in general, anti-corruption, please. Vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[17:15:01]] For 254 The law is passed. 2879: Draft Act amending article 46 of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption (for the scope of information declared by persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government). Yegor Sobolev, please 2879. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u70	This is a much more serious law, initiated by the government, along with the minister of justice, who did a very large and constructive work, we worked well on the committee. This law compels all officials to declare not only the property formally written on them but also the property that is formally owned by their individuals but is actually at the disposal of those officials. Plus that property that doesn't officially exist, but it's really huge assets or expensive cars. Remember the history of DAI Yerszew, who simply did not register his huge house. And before it was exposed to journalists, he used it insolently. To eliminate this, this bill has been drafted, and it has been asked to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u71	Yes, please, Yuri Lucenko. Careful, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u72	Dear Sir, dear reporter of Jegor! Our deputy, Knyazevitch, was making an amendment that had not entered the text at all and was not considered by the committee. On behalf of the faction, I insist that the term of use of the property of the third party to be recorded in the declaration be set at more than 120 days a year. 180 days a year. This will put clarity on this very important question. Let me explain. If you use a 180 - day - drive car or live in a third - person apartment for 180 days, it doesn’t matter if you take a break or without a break during the year, you have to declare the property. And so this will clarify the law and remove the possibility of abuse of the force or the courts on this issue. Please vote in favour with this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u73	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u74	We discussed this idea, discussed it with the minister of justice. The point is that the property that people use and have to declare is already described in the law in force, an active edition that we simply decided not to touch. We made it clear that it is necessary to declare property that people actually have the right to dispose of. Not just when you were given a car or a friend’s overnight stay or late return, but when you actually own it. That's what we described in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u75	Thank you. Look, right now, I think we're gonna make it clear to Ruslan Knazevitch and vote. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u76	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that when we voted on this law in the first reading, he announced from the rostrum of Parliament that it was a matter of property that was used for at least six months. And that's what we voted for in the first reading. In the second reading, I'm just asking you to clarify these things because it's not right in the months to determine the term. And please, under the transcript, I will read out the amendment that the exercise of the interests of the declarant and his family, this possibility of exercising rights identical to the content, the rule of law, the use or management of the assets concerned, no less than 180 days of the reporting year for which the declaration is made. This change to paragraph 1 after paragraph 2 shall be completed by paragraph 1. And this was supported accordingly by the minister of justice. And that was the idea that our faction would vote this law in the first reading. We insist that it be reproduced in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u77	Thank you. A fixed assignment. Minister of Justice Paul Petrenko, one minute. And take your seats, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u78	Dear colleagues! The committee of profile considered the bill three times, and there was a meeting yesterday. And the profile committee has proposed an even more accurate and transparent mechanism. We're cleaning up property issues because there might be manipulations here. You came home one or two days ago, and you'll be accused of using your property. A special committee has narrowed the matter down to the property you are entitled to. On the other hand, if a person has formed a vehicle as a basis, he has a general commission from that person, an official, and he has not indicated it in the declaration, or he can sell the property, then he must declare it. We've cleaned up all the usage issues, Ruslan. I just looked at the last text. Only the property you have the right to dispose of must be declared. Similarly, if you have a general, for example. If this is a usage, the usage is adjusted. If you use real estate, you make an appropriate agreement. If you have property to which you are entitled, and it is arranged for third parties, then you should declare it in a special order. We've cleared up all these disagreements. The committee made a very good offer. It won't take 180 days to prove it or 200 days to prove it. If the property you have formed for a third party but actually you are the owner, you have the right to order through a general commission, for example, or a management contract, then you declare. This does not apply to the right to use property and the right to own property. Not applicable. So I think it's going to be a more transparent norm for which to vote and it's going to work. Thank you. That's why I support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! I want to confirm that this is probably the best standard. Because it's about the property you're entitled to. Not only did I use it, but it was the right to do so. For example, a car with a commission is sold there and so forth. This is probably a broader norm and is objectively simple. That there won't be any problems. Colleagues, I think, given this standard, that has just been announced by Justice Minister Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u80	The availability of a document on the right to implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u81	State register.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I think it's a much better norm than just using. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. And come on, let's go into the hall. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u83	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear reporter, I have a question. How Can I Prove the Right of Command? For example, a corrupter lives in a foreign home, Mr. Justice Minister, and the question goes to you. He lives in a strange house, he has no confidence, no general, no simple use of the house, no use of the car, he uses it. How will you prove his right to do so? Questions. You can't prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u84	The Minister of Justice, please, a minute and then Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u85	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, two positions were written in this standard that the committee was working on. If a person (a government official) receives income and benefits from property or has the right to manage. So if you're using someone's house or you're getting rent income out of it, you have to declare it. And if you have the right to sell this property through a general order and so forth, you have the same right to declare. Then you're using your income to actually benefit from this property. If you're using someone else's house on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u86	I want to explain, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u87	Please, Yegor Sobolev. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u88	Lie down, Ruslan, I want to explain. The need to declare the property you are actually using already exists in today’s legislation. It is described, if I am not mistaken, article 1. We do not change this article at all. We're just going to add, as the minister put it, the property that a person can manage. Let me give you an example. If, for God's sake, one of the parliamentarians is a secret beneficiary of a fund that belongs to a house or a yacht or a car, in this case he is legally responsible. This law translates the obligation to prove violations of legislation on declarations to the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. Next. In court, it will violate the case and by means of a court of law to determine whether or not there is abuse. There is no provision for arbitrary decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, please, just one more minute and let's get to the vote. Oleg Lazko, then Ruslan Knyazevich and then Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u90	Oleg Lazko. When Jegor Sobolev says that there is no arbitrary decision making, it all looks good in theory. And in practice, it's like a cop comes in, you spend the night with a lover or a lover, you don't declare an apartment, you don't make a declaration, you're accused and you're brought to trial. I think we need to support the amendment of Knyazevitch, and this will be clearly provided for by law. It uses 180 days -- it declares, it doesn't use -- it doesn't say. Otherwise, to his own discretion, he determines whether or not there is a violation. It's a field of contraption. This is a field for the possibility of repression and forging crimes that a person does not commit. Let us keep in mind the legal system that we have in our judicial system. You're going to get confused in a flat spot. You're going to meet a friend, you're going to be accused of being your property, and you're going to go to court to prove that it's not your property.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u91	And I think colleagues, or maybe we'll leave two standards, they're not controversial, are they? Yuri Lucenko, please. They're not controversial, we can leave two standards. They're not controversial.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u92	Dear Mr. Head, the Honourable Reporter and the Cabinet of Ministers! Let's go get the Rules. Now let's make the amendment that Ruslan Knazevitch made, which allows us to calculate corruptioners much wider than the standard that we are now offered. People who use 180 days of property during the year should show that property in their declaration. Other rules on beneficiaries, everything else, we don't deny. But do not narrow down the standards of hunting for corrupters. Please put the amendment to Knjazewich's vote, and all factions of the coalition please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u93	Thank you. And I have an offer before all the factions. Can you just keep it down a little bit? See what happens: you talk, there's a lot of noise in the room, and then they start yelling at each other. Let's just keep it down a little bit. Please, Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, this is the expression: the best is the enemy of the good. In fact, the committee was very fruitful, and it met three times on this subject. Worked out the text of the law, legally correct and verified, which is actually being proposed in the committee's drafting. And I propose that we vote on this law in committee editing and put a dot. In a year, we will see the results of this standard, and then we will make changes. Let us infectably balance the text of the law with the rules that will allow certain officials to tell them that they did not live 180 days, but 170 days, so they don't fall under the declaration. This law applies to those persons who have real property and who hide it in third parties who are justified, and who have the right to dispose of it, then they should declare it. And if they don't declare it, they'll be responsible. And then there will be no manipulations by the law enforcement authorities or by the judicial authorities if we accept the editorial board's proposal. By the way, he voted unanimously for this editorial. Please support the text of the law in the second reading and in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u95	Knazevitch. Do you insist, Ruslan, on your amendment? One minute Knyazevitch and that's it. And prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Just now, the minister of justice actually replicated the standard that's in the table, but unfortunately, the reporter talked about something else from the rostrum. I'll repeat for the transcript: in the table given, accepted on the committee the following thing is that if you use it for the purpose of profit or property, you have to declare it. This is mainly about commercial real estate, obviously faster than anything else, as well as commercial transport and so on, and in that case, you will certainly declare it. In other cases, if you are not doing so for the benefit of or for the purpose of making it available, you are not obliged to declare it in a declaration. Did I get it right? If that is the case, of course, we agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u97	Thank you. Guys, take your seats. With the technical and legal rights that reflect the essence of what Ruslan Petrovich Knazević said, please prepare for the vote. 2879 with technical legal rights that reflect the essence of the proposal just made by Ruslan Knazević. Colleagues, 2879 in second reading and in general, taking into account the latest technical and legal order of Ruslan Knazević. The last one. We vote, we vote 2879, we vote. Please be supportive. Everyone understands, I think. [[17:30:18]] For 253 Decision taken. 2806, John Vinnik, draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety of Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area Where Military Status Is Introduced or Antiterrorist Operation Is Introduced. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Now we're again on second reading, we're going to be discussing with you a bill to provide personal protection to civil servants in the anti-terror zone. This bill was promulgated, worked together with the National Security and Defence Council. And, indeed, he today requires a decision on it. I want to point out that in the second reading in the faction of Parliament, namely, the Self-Help faction, there were comments to this bill. Instead, no amendments were made when preparing for rereading. So today we propose to review this bill in a second reading and in general. I also know that today, he is already in agreement with the minister of internal affairs and meets the expectations he expects. Therefore, we ask the room to determine the voting and to adopt this bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you. There are no amendments, none, we have considered them in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u99	Colleagues, 2806. 2806. Colleagues, please, are the insistence, the national MP Lechchenko, who are rejected by the committee. 1 Amendment rejected by the Committee, People’s Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u100	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The problem with this bill is why it was rejected at the time, the last time we looked at it for the first time in the second reading, and the fact that it allows for the use and supply of weapons to officials, in fact, and not to all other citizens. That's not what we're talking about. That we have, in the Supreme Council, six months of the Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act, which is frozen and not accepted, but even within the logic of this bill. If you are talking about war in the East, think of volunteers, journalists, doctors, and medical staff who perform their duties regularly or temporarily. So it is my amendment to this law that not only officials should be allowed to have weapons in those territories but also those who have just been mentioned. I urge you, the entire session room, if you want some justice here in this regard, to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u101	Please, 1 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u102	We discussed this issue in a meaningful way during our second reading, and the committee did not support it. I don't consider an argument to be necessary right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u103	Levchenk's amendment is not supported by the committee. The Committee's first amendment is not supported. [[17:34:44]] For-76 No votes, 76. 3 revisions. Don't you insist? Lechenko, 6 repairs. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u104	If you have already decided to hand over weapons to officials, at least introduce some regulatory mechanisms, mechanisms for controlling these weapons, behind these officials. I consider it appropriate to add a position regarding medical examination and training in weapons management for the persons mentioned in article 1 of the Act. The bill actually proposes a simplified procedure for granting a certain category of persons the right to give them weapons. In doing so, it is vital that the right to obtain a permit be given to adequate and mentally healthy citizens of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we have a lot of people working in public bodies today who are not mentally healthy. So please vote for the amendment, which, in effect, will force them to take appropriate courses and receive appropriate medical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u105	Please, the 6th, not supported by the committee, the amendment, the People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u106	The committee does not have the meaningful information available to Mr. Levchenko, so it did not support Amendment 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u107	Please, 6 amendments are not supported by the committee. [[17:36:29]] For-54 I didn't get confirmation. 2806 in second reading and in general in the Committee's version. 2806. Take your seats, colleagues. Deputies, take your seats, please! 2806 in the second reading and in general. 2806. Please vote. In the Committee's version, please support me. 2806. Vote, fellows! [[17:37:09]] For a hundred and They didn't vote. Colleagues, let's go 2806. Honorable Fellows, 2806 We didn't make it. We're back: 2806. Are you ready now? Wait, stop the vote. Take your seats, please, colleagues! I can see it! Take your seats, please. To return. Are you concentrating, colleagues? Please take your seats, fellow national MPs. The proposal to return to consideration 2806. Vote please, 2806. Return. Ready? Please vote. 2806 returns, colleagues, please. Voting, supporting. Return, this is return, colleagues. [[17:38:23]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block - 100, People's Front - 73. Another one? Colleagues, repeat others? Rereading the second reading, preparing for rereading. Preparing for a second reading. On the third reading, it's the second one again. For the third reading? Please, colleagues, let's support this draft law for the third reading. 2806 on third reading. 2806, please, for the third reading. Third reading, please, let's support, for the third reading. [[17:39:30.]] For 223 Please, Dobrenkov, Cloud, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. I understand, of course, the crucial importance of the 2806 bill and other bills, on which the provision of yet another IMF loan, which will go to food, inefficient money management, depends. But I would like to point out that the opposition bloc is categorically insisting on the non-admission of these bills, as IMF policies do not lead to economic prosperity but further deterioration of the economic well-being of our citizens. We would like to point out, however, that most citizens are now standing and insisting on the adoption of Bill 2960 on the extension of the VAT test regime, since not only does the IMF provide money to Ukraine, but also taxpayers, many of whom have simply become taxpayers. Their work is paralyzed. And we insist that this bill be put into extraordinary order rather than considered intentionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u109	Colleagues, there's still an offer to send him out for a third reading. Vote? John Vinnick offered to send him to prepare for the third reading. Ready to vote? Let's have a third reading, please. Third reading, please. Yes, send for third reading, please, colleagues. [[17:41:19]] For 201 Clearly, the law is not adopted. Come on, colleagues. We have a question for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please include government draft laws: 2334a, 2177a, 2178a, 2229a, 2352a, 2335a and 2319a. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u110	Dear Sir, your head! Our faction asks for the removal of two laws that have no longer entered into this order in the previous session. This is related to the Customs Codex — 2177a, 2178a. Take them off the hook, and then we vote batch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u111	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u112	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The faction of the "Radical Party" asks for bills 2714 to be included in the agenda of the day's session, namely bankruptcy of natural persons and 2307, the state monopoly, the full state monopoly on lottery activity. And we're voting for all the other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u113	Dear fellows. Please, 2177, 2178a. I suggest you do it this way. And he's standing. Colleagues, 2177a and 2778a, we're about to remove him. Please consult with the factions, and we'll get back to that. Including this question, what did Oleg Valeriyovich say. Please, I'm putting to the vote, please, the agenda of the day, which is presented and presented to you with the exception of 2177a and 2178a. Then I'm asking you to identify yourself. Then consult the factions about 2177a, 2178a, plus the two laws passed by Oleg Lazko. And then we'll come back. Is such an offer accepted? I got it. There is another position of fellow MPs. Colleagues, please. And so please take your seats. Integrating into the agenda, except for 2177a, 2178a. That's what you're given. Excluding these two positions. Next. If there are any additional positions, gather up now, faction leaders, agree. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, except for two laws: 2177a and 2178a. Please vote. Please be supportive. And consult. And we'll hold consultations now. I'm not going to turn my voice on, I'm going to point that out. Please support. [[17:45:39]] For-161 Of course, colleagues. The structure is not working. The structure is not working. Please consult the factions about the order of the day, the reconciliation of positions, and then we will return to that question. First reading, colleagues. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the order of movement of goods to or from the area of anti-terrorist operation - 2109a, 2109a-1. There's an offer. How did they not consider it? 2553 is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on improving order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please report from two factions. Instead of calling it a break. Please, Oleg Lazko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u114	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, during the vote on the amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament, our colleague Roman Nasirov voted! We have great respect for our colleague Roman Nasirov, who is now in charge of the State Fiscal Service. But there is one situation. On May 25, the deadline for filing applications for parliamentary authority was set for Mr. Nasirov! To this day, contrary to the requirements of the Constitution and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, a corresponding statement has not been made to the Head of the Supreme Council, not discussed in the Regulatory Committee. We consider this to be a gross violation of the Constitution's requirements of the doubt-incompatibilities of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Because tomorrow is actually the last plenary day of today's session, and if we don't vote today for Mr. Nasirov, and there's another MP, Mr. Gózdzow, who also has a parliamentary mandate. This means that these two distinguished ladies of parliament will have a mandate by September. I take this opportunity to address Prime Minister Arsenija Yatsenuk. I ask you now and the Head of the Supreme Council to immediately find Mr. Nasirov, remind him of the rules of the Constitution, force him immediately to submit an application to the Supreme Council for credentials, and the Ukrainian Parliament today to vote for the suspension of the powers of Lords Nasirov and Gzdow. Follow the requirements of the Constitution, colleagues. For more than two months, there have been no parliamentary powers. One seat on two chairs, on three chairs they want to sit. It's a violation of the law, it's a violation of the Constitution. Get the violators out of Parliament! I demand that we take immediate action to end the violations of the Constitution!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u115	I had to say that you came to me an hour ago, and I gave the order to the apparatus, and the apparatus is looking for Nasirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u116	Where's the application?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u117	Here's the statement when I show it to you. It is not simply to be objective about everything, to talk about everything, not just about the application. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u118	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I, as the head of the faction, confirm that both Mr. Nasirov and Mr. Gzdow have long stated that they have put together parliamentary powers, someone long ago, someone before. We do not deny that after the ruling of the regulatory committee, which can be held in just a few minutes today, the parliamentary mandate has been removed. We have no problem with that. Please do not create any conflict around this. We're in favour, this statement is written and filed with the Supreme Council. No, look, but it's on. The Legislature Committee may consider, based on my oral application for the readiness of the two deputies to present their mandate. Take a vote and don't look for a black cat in our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u119	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, offer. Proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, there is a request to move on to the next, this is the last, bill of 2173a, to present it, to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u121	There is an offer by Arsenius Petrovich to change the momentum of the consideration of the issue and now move on to question 217. One minute. 2173a and 2173a-1. Please, Your Honor, the Prime Minister's proposal to address this issue. I'd like to make up my mind. 2173. Huh? It's all right. Let's take a look at it. 2173a, 2173a-1 is about changing the order of the question. Please identify yourself. I propose that Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk continue his consideration of draft Law 2173a, 2173a-1. Be my guest, dear fellows. [[17:51:56]] For-189 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. Colleagues, please let's do it this way. Listen! Listen! Sit down, leave one person who can take a stand, one person. Who? National MP Bakumenko, please. Everybody take your seats, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u122	Dear friends! Dear friends! I would like to address you on behalf of Ukraine's agrarians so that we do not allow the adoption of Bill 2173a in the part where the abolition of the special VAT regime for agriculture. We are in violation of the coalition agreement, which signed 303 people's deputies and is an integral part of the Government's programme, and this has benefited, as the Government has done without agreement, without discussion, from a normal bill on electronic accounts, a rule on the abolition of the special regime. I repeat, there are 303 people, not buttons. We are ready for dialogue, we are ready for professional discussion. And in the law that's waiting for business today, and we have three bills, three, I repeat: 2173a-1 and 2960. It's a tax committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u124	On a tax basis yesterday, this government bill was not supported, Bill 2960 was supported. And I ask if we approach this issue so that we can act on the rules and introduce 2960, 2173a and 2173-1k as we receive it. But most importantly, we insist that we do not vote in favour of the bill until the special regime rules are removed. This will lead to a critical situation in the APC when it is stated that the APC is eating today and is not doing so. After the collapse of the national currency, the Prime Minister stated three times: 20 per cent of the currency was a crisis for the economy. Three times! Expenditures increased by 65 per cent, GDP decreased by 5.4 per cent in the APC, for the first time in 10 years. All of the CRDs, pigs, birds are down. The APC is beginning to be in a systemic crisis. And instead of reducing taxes, instead of reducing financial burdens today, the Government is killing the only industry that is still driving Ukraine's economy. I'm asking you, all members of the majors who will come to the county. People will look you in the eye, peasant. Don't do this. I'm asking you from this rostrum. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the offer of the Prime Minister of the country, let's hear it. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u126	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Protectors of the agrarian sector, please listen. My firm support is that in Ukraine we have to help farmers. And I'm pretty sure you didn't come out here for eight oligarchic agrarian companies that pull 80 percent of all budget subsidies out of the budget. And in order to take away all your concerns and all the rumours that the oligaric agrarian lobby here has distributed aid so as not to vote in favour of this law, the government is proposing the following. 90 percent, or 98 percent of all agrarian companies in Ukraine, are left on the old system. And you know what companies? These are companies that have up to 3,000 hectares and that make up to 50 million dollars a year. [[B in m in s a l in]] And if you're gonna stand up for the new oligarchs, then you're gonna have to deal with other people, not with politics, respectable colleagues. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine calls on those who are real agrarians, not businessmen in parliament, to support farmers. 98 percent of all companies registered in Ukraine with up to 3,000 hectares [3,000 ha] of land and up to 50 million dollars [50 million ha] of income are taxed on the old system. And the oligarchs will clean up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u127	Please, the offer has come up. Please, National Deputy Bakumenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u128	I understand that for 30 million dollars you can block the rostrum of parliament, that's true, the sum is large in principle, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u129	Please, from the rostrum, Buckumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u130	Dear Prime Minister, don't fool the hall. You manipulate numbers. We are ready for professional discussion. We held committee hearings, not Mrs. Jarezko, not you. You say you're in a separate bill, we'll discuss with the public the consequences that will come. And you take such a secret and now you're manipulating. I'll give you the numbers. You're talking about big ones. Large companies, ten of which are listed on international financial markets, financial statements confirmed by the world's five leading companies, said that in 2014, all ten companies lost net losses, capitalization declined from 10 per cent to 80 per cent. What are you talking about? You're a manipulator!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u131	I strongly support you, you're absolutely right. All these poor ten companies, who have suffered losses, have yachts of 85 meters, have expensive cars themselves, have billions of dollars abroad, and the report shows that they are bankrupt. Who do you protect and who do you cheat, people? Well, what do you think is stupid?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal did not receive most of the votes. Let's go. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, no shame! Please take your seats. The proposal did not raise the number of votes, it needs to be discussed. We don't look at them. We're not going to be considering this law right now. We will now consider the bill of twenty. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer to make: now to start considering the Law in the first reading of 2109a, 2109a-1. Andrew Volodymyrovich will be the lead. And we'll go out and consult and figure out what to do about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we have a deal? Let's just calm down! 2109. Now we're exchanging thoughts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Great! Very good! Colleagues, let's look at 2109, 2109a, 2109a-1. Let's do it now. Please, National Deputy Bakumenko, Semerak, Zhurzy. And let's agree on the positions now. Please, colleagues, 2109a, 2109a-1. There's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] 2553 will then be considered. 2553: Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on improving the procedure for bringing to justice the military administrative offences of the Reporter, John Vinnik. And there's a proposal: by a reduced procedure. During the discussion, we will hold consultations. Please support the proposal – a reduced procedure so as not to stop the session. Please! Let's support it, and now let's go have a consultation on this, colleagues. Let's support it. Short-term procedure, colleagues. [[18:01:23]] For-149 Once again, one vote is not enough. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. Please be supportive. 2553. Calm down, please, let's support it. 2553. Vote. Short - term consideration in the first reading so as not to waste time. And we'll keep working. [[18:01:48]] For-166 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u133	Thank you for your support, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the flaming revolutionaries who blocked the rostrum, I ask that you allow the reporter to report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. And I ask my colleagues to unlock the rostrum. Mr. Dubnevich! Dear colleagues, please. No, no, please, from the rostrum, we'll fix it. I'm asking you to unlock the rostrum, colleagues, now the issue of the agenda is coming up. Now there's a meeting to decide what question we're going to ask. Now, please allow the reporter to report. Please, Ivan Juryovich, I very much ask you to come to the workplace and report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u134	Law 2553 regulates completely different relationships, not those for which the rostrum has now been blocked. Perhaps it is no less than or even more important. It refers to discipline in the armed forces of Ukraine, discipline in our military formations. To no one today is the secret that the issue of discipline exists in us, and it is quite important, and today it reduces the security of our state and the de facto viability of our troops. The Supreme Council has taken very far legislative initiatives, has introduced a series of rights into the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, which allows today to deal effectively with crimes and crimes committed by military personnel, such as drunkenness, for example, the decision of the arbitrary placement of the military, some other offences that today affect the issue of military discipline. Instead of the fact that in the ATO area, the judicial branch of power, as well as the military prosecutor's office, even though they work very well, but unfortunately they have a fairly limited number of employees, they don't fully manage the number of applications that are being opened. Therefore, it was proposed, by this legislative initiative, that the commanders of the units should be given the right to deal with administrative matters on their own, administrative offences and the imposition of charges on military personnel who violate the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. There is a clear limit to the series of articles that are subject to consideration by the commanders of this bill. Articles, even 10 of them, apply exclusively to crimes involving war crimes. Please support this bill, because this is the defense of our state, the strength of our troops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u135	Thank you. The coreporter, Kožemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u136	Dear Chairman, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, at its meeting, held by the People's Deputies of Vinnik, the Pashin Act on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, on improving the order of accountability for military administrative offences. The project proposes that military commanders be given the right of military commanders in military and state of emergency, as well as during a special period to deal with cases of military administrative offences, as provided for in articles 172 with badges 10 and 172 with badge 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, as well as to establish that arrests on hauptwah are established and applied only to military officers for the commission of military and administrative offences. Science and expertise thinks the law needs to be further developed. After reviewing the bill's position, members of the Committee on Legislative Security noted that the amendments proposed in the bill disagreed (note!) with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which no one can be arrested or held in custody in any other way than by a reasoned decision of the court. And also article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of martial law and article 31 on the legal regime of state of emergency, according to which justice in Ukraine is carried out exclusively by courts under conditions of emergency or martial law. Therefore, the committee recommends that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss? If there is no need to discuss it, I propose not to delay but to proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'd like to emphasize. According to the bill, the committee concludes that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned. But first, I'm going to put the proposal on the ground. If it doesn't work, I'll make a proposal to the committee. So I'd like the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues in the towers, please take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to ask the deputies to come into the Hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences to improve the order of accountability for military administrative offences (number 2553). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. On the ground, please. [[18:08:24]] For-170. The decision is not made. I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. I ask that we do not lose the bill, consolidate and vote in favour of the committee's proposal. So I am voting on draft Law No. 2553 for the return of its subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. Please vote, please support. Please. [[18:09:08]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's determine if we have enough deputies in this room to make decisions. Because we have an extremely important decision. Tomorrow's anniversary of the tragedy, which was a tragedy not only for Ukraine, but for the whole world, when Russian roadside terrorists in the airspace of Ukraine killed a huge number of people. And there is a need to vote in favour. But we can vote if we see that there are enough deputies in the room. So I'm asking you to prepare for the signal vote right now. Let's see if we have any potential. So that we can vote on this important decision until tomorrow’s tragedy. Appeal to the International Tribunal for the Establishment and Conduct of an International Tribunal. Dear colleagues! Signal vote. I ask you to take part in the signal vote with the "yes" button and please vote. Colleagues, signal vote. Please take part in the vote. Vote. [[18:10:30.]] For 232 Thank you, Your Honor. I suggest you go first. Listen to me carefully so that we can handle the procedure properly. First, we need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary. And so I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day plenary and the decision-making, a draft decision on the United Nations Supreme Council's referral to the United Nations, the national parliaments of the world's nations for the establishment of an international tribunal for the prosecution of persons responsible for the crime of a crashed airline flight carrying out flight MH17 on July 17, 2014. Please support inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[18:11:35]] For 241 Thank you. I also ask to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please support, please vote for the summary procedure and at the request of the authors. Vote. [[18:12:00]] For 221 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, leader of the Radical Party Oleg Lášk, Lášek Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the draft decree and to the United Nations for the establishment of an international tribunal. Criminals who have struck down a peaceful passenger plane that has killed hundreds of people must not escape punishment should be brought to justice, not before God, but before an international tribunal. Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u139	Thank you. The word is given to the coreporter, the head of the committee in the foreign affairs of Hopko Hanni Mikolayovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u140	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Yesterday, the committee considered the text of the ruling. And the only request, please support, I won't read, change paragraphs 4 and put it in 5. And in that way we can vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard a proposal from the chairman of the committee that was formulated. And I am now asking to vote in favour of the draft Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations National Parliaments of the States of the World for the Establishment of an International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Crime, which is linked to a crashed plane with a proposal made by the head of the Hopko Hanna Mikolayovna committee from the Supreme Council’s stand under the transcript. Please accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposal. Please vote. [[6:13:53]] For 248 Decision taken. This is an important decision that was important to us today. Please show by factions. Dear colleagues, I see we have the potential to continue our work. Now, with your permission, I'm just going to figure out what the order of the day should be. Now, according to the order of the day, it has to be 2123a. Yuri Vitaliovich! Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on prevention and resistance to political corruption. Yuri Vitaliovich! Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, are we ready for consideration 2123a? Author Lechchenko. I invite you to the author's word. But before that, I would like to support the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support, please vote. [[18:15:37]] For 186 Decision taken. I ask you to proceed to the examination. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Lechchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u142	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration, the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Political Corruption is proposed. This bill is part of the European Union's package for visa-free travel, it's a so-called road map. He is supported by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. It's written by experts on the Reanimation Reform Package. It is supported by an expert committee of the OSCE. He's running government funding for the party from the budget. This is the same norm that operates in all European countries, which will allow parties to obtain alternative funding from the cost of oligarchs. It is proposed that money will be allocated annually to parties that have overcome the three - percent barrier, that is, the parliamentary barrier plus a barrier for parties that have not overcome the barriers but that have a chance to pass. It's also offered to reimburse money for the electoral company, but it's not absolute categories, so for the parties to get access to funds, they have to show total transparency. The funding is foreseen since 2017, but within the next year, the parties have to report quarterly on all the private contributions they will receive. There is also a restriction on the financing of parties by natural and legal persons. Appropriately, individuals will be able to make contributions of not more than 100,000 dollars, but legal persons will be able to make some 400,000 dollars. This is the right formula that is calculated from the minimum wage. Please support this bill, which was similarly prepared by a working group formed by the Anti-Corruption Committee of the Supreme Council, which included civil society, which included representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Court of Auditors. This bill has been introduced to replace the relevant bill of government as a gesture of goodwill, for which we also thank the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. And thank you for your further help in drafting this bill, the Committee on Legal Policy of Ruslan Knazević, we talked today about preparing it together for our second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u143	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, Egor Sobolev, to report. An important controversial but extremely important law to combat and combat political corruption. And I ask Jehora to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u144	Colleagues, to overcome corruption in government, in the political party system, it's going to be very difficult, and I think everyone here understands that very well. This is one of those mechanisms that allows for honest work to be done by parties that allow for honest party building. We've done a huge job of creating this law on the committee. I wanted to thank Deputy Sergey Leschchenk because he had just organized a model preparation of legislation, and he had all the experts involved in government bodies. A very constructive position was taken by the government, which had rescinded its own law and supported it. We unanimously decided to recommend the law in the first reading and to make it a good law in the final vote. The committee is requested to support it. I would also like to point out: Thank you to Mr. Andrey Kožemiakin, who has given up the privilege of working on this law to our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? There is a need to discuss. I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. But first, if you'll excuse me, please sign in: two for, two against. We're signing up, honorary colleagues. We're signing up. I'll give the Minister of Justice, maybe after the discussion? Maybe when it's done. Thank you very much. And I'd like to invite Igor Mikolaiovich Pober, Peter Dustenk's Block. Please, Pober Igor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u146	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u147	Our political power supports all European laws without exception, especially those aimed at transparency in financing the parties. Obviously, the country today is in the midst of total political corruption, and the mistrust of existing political parties is about 80 percent. And it is through the new mechanisms of financing political parties:- transparency, reporting, openness, competitiveness that we will ensure that political elites can rotate at all levels. This law is a weapon of simple, ordinary citizens in the fight against the oligarchic clans that have plagued the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian District Councils, the District Councils, are preparing to create an oligarchy front in the fight for local self - rule in our country. This law is essential primarily to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to address today's Minister of Justice as we all demonstrate real, European standards in support of the new political forces and political competition. I realize that because of the support of the incredible, fierce support of the Party of the Plain People across the country, there has been a sharp increase in the rating of this political force, hope for Ukrainian citizens. In fact, her registration is being blocked. I appeal to Mr. Petrenko: according to the law in force, the goodwill of the common people, the need to create a normal civilised competition for the Ukrainian political community to speed up the registration process and give hope for the citizens, rescue them and give them a new progressive European political power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u148	Massorina Olena Sergiyevna, People's Front. He's handing over Victoria Sumar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum, there have been many words about what is far more than war, and Ukraine is threatened by one disaster: corruption. The worst part is the corruption that happens here in this room. In this room, when MP factions and groups often carry out their interests far, not by their constituents, but by their financiers, because today the financing of political parties, well, that's, you know, such a big secret behind seven locks, that everyone's wondering about, but nobody's talking about. This law provides that all political parties that have received more than three percent of the support of the Ukrainian electorate are entitled to funding from the State Budget. Instead, when they receive taxpayers ’ money, political parties are obliged to report all their expenses, their own goods, their property, and how they use it. It's a perfectly normal European practice. Today it's the law. Yes, indeed, there is little money in the State Budget, that's true. But today, the International Monetary Fund insists that this bill be approved, because corruption costs much more than the cost of financing parties from the State Budget, corruption costs Ukrainian payers much more. This is a very important step that we must take today to overcome the elite corruption that is destroying Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u150	Thank you. Storm Igor, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u151	Igor Šurma, Opposition Block. Clearly, the future lies in European laws and European values. However, I must tell you that what is going to happen today in the vote, all of you, the coalition, have no right to raise your voice. I'm telling you why. You have no right to talk about political corruption in this room, because you have set an example of political bribery since the first day of this Parliament. I'll explain. Remember how long we didn't work because there was no coalition. Why did the coalition not work? Because you couldn't share committees. It's not that you didn't share committees. You're in violation of the Committee Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u152	I ask you to speak on the subject of this bill, or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u153	I'm on the subject. There was a violation of the Ukrainian Law on Professional Committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u154	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone! The reporter is not on the subject. I ask the rapporteurs to speak on the subject of this bill, otherwise under the Rules I will be forced to ask to delete the word. So, from Self-Help Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u155	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u156	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will certainly support this bill. We think this bill is a new age, I'm not afraid of that word, in the political culture of Ukraine. Because, first of all, it takes away the principle of corrupt financing of parties, it creates pluralism for healthy competition between party forces, it allows those parties that are not today money, oligarchic, even, on equal terms to bring their people, create social elevators and give new, other people, non-corruption people who are interested in defending Ukraine's interests, coming to parliaments, coming to local councils and taking responsibility for Ukraine's future. That's why Self-Help will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u158	Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u159	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our long-term faction demands that Parliament consider a bill on wage and pension index. In order to increase wages and pensions for those who have lost their salaries and pensions today, at least three cents. We're told that there's no money for this, and billions of dollars for financing political parties that have offered a 3% barrier is what it is. Of course, we support the author in his desire to establish transparency and overcome political corruption in the parties. Unfortunately, however, public funding will not solve the problem of political corruption in the parties. If you have extra money in the State Budget, give it to the pensioners, give it to the budgeters, give it to the black people, give it to the women who give birth to the children, give it to those who need it. I don't think so. That political parties and MPs present here in this room are the most in need of this money. Give money to Ukrainians if you have too much money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, there is an intense discussion. With your permission, I'll give it to my co-authors. Mustafa, please, one minute for the replica. Woodenness is one minute for replication. And Trelyakow is one minute on the line. And that's where we end up, society. Please. And to complete, of course, the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u161	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention now to those who will vote against this law. These are the people who for many years have received money directly from the oligarchs ’ purses. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are the people who are now willing to give donations from the State budget to people who are supposed to be in their pockets, actually getting money from the oligarchs, from businessmen. And we can't close our eyes on that anymore. If we are willing to fund our political activities transparently, let us do so from the budget in proportion to the pocket of the oligarchs. No political force here is transparent in its funding. This will end this hegemony of the oligarchs. And we demand, as young politicians, let's finish. It is the only chance for new political forces to appear in Parliament, to appear here. Otherwise, they will continue to gather politicians who will come out here, tell their populist speeches at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u162	Thank you. Tree, one minute. Very brief, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u163	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, political party of Will. As representatives of the young political party, we were among the initiators, along with progressive fellow MPs, a new call to start fighting political corruption. This is, indeed, a real step in the fight against political corruption. When political parties cease to be dependent on their sponsors and do not do their will in Parliament, they do the will of their electors, the will of people and ensure that there is maximum purity in political parties. So we ask you very much to support this bill. This is an important anti-oligarchy bill. It also creates real competition for political, healthy competition in society. This is what our society requires, this is what our electorate requires, that we have a choice and that we do not depend on those who have large wallets and direct their representatives to parliament where we do not need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u164	Last act, Trelyakow, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u165	I fully support that parties should publish and show who is funding them. But I have a question for the authors. Why such discrimination? For a lawyer, one sum, for a gymnasium, the other? If a fissico has paid all the taxes and can do so in a declaration, why can it be banned? That's what I understand. Honestly, I can't. That's my question to the authors. Either make the same rule that a fissionist and a lawyer pay the same price, or I don't understand why such discrimination is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u166	Dear colleagues, there is an enormous number of raised hands. The longer we talk now, the less likely we are to adopt this law. Dear colleagues, please let your emotions down a little bit. And don't yell, please, it doesn't make it better, it doesn't make it more effective. I want to tell you a few important things before I give the Minister of Justice a word. We can talk a hundred times about deliharization, about fighting corruption, we can speak a hundred loud and vivid words to announce from this rostrum. But until we release the political parties from the oligarchs until we release the political process from the external influence of the oligarchs, believe me, we will never achieve an effective, effective fight against corruption. It starts here, with political parties. And then she goes to the D.A.'s office, the customs office, the courts, and all the other offices. This is where she concentrates, society! We need to free political parties from the oligarchs. And I urge you to support this bill, which is one of the key and important requirements of the IMF at the same time. And I think those words will confirm the justice minister Paul Petrenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u167	Dear friends, the honourable chairman! Dear National Deputies! This law is important on two issues. First question. It is on the list of issues that Ukraine should accept by the end of September as unconditional conditions for obtaining the visa-free regime of the Ukrainians. And not just European colleagues have included this law in this list of bills. Ukraine should finally become European not only in slogans but also in fact. In all countries of the European Union, political parties depend solely on their citizens, not on appropriate oligarchs, billionaires, or concerts. Imagine that Merkel Party is dependent on BMW or Mercedes. Imagine that the Allanda Party was dependent on Aerobus because of shadow funding. That's impossible. So I think this law is going to give very much positive to ordinary Ukrainians. We had this practice that parties that depend on oligarchs came to power, for example, the Party of Regions, and we used the budget to raise hundreds of billions of dollars of money to finance ourselves. So please, let's not do populism. This law will become effective in funding from 2018. By that time, the parties had to open up their reports completely so that Ukrainian society could see who was funding them. The other one. We certainly will not overcome corruption in the public sector if we do not overcome corruption in the public sector if we do not overcome corruption in Parliament and in the political forces. It's test-true. If political parties are dependent on clans and oligarchs, they will never delegate ministers or government officials working for Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you. Our first task is not to break the visa-free regime. We must accept these laws. Our second task is to make a really European model of the party. Now in Ukraine, we register about 200 parties. But tell me that at least 100 of these two hundred are independent? No, of course not. So please support these laws in the first reading. Of course, there are parties that are independent and many in Parliament. But I would like to support these laws in the first reading and in the rest of the world so that we can actually build a European party model that will work for ordinary Ukrainians, not the oligarchs and the clans. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal as a basis. Society, based. We can work out if there's anything wrong with that bill. It's a principled position. I therefore propose and ask to vote in favour of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on prevention and resistance to political corruption (number 2123a) as a basis. We decide, we vote, please. Based on the base. [[18:35:38]] For 245 Decision taken. Society, this is a big, powerful step forward that we have now taken by this vote. This is one of the most important laws for today, and I welcome everyone and thank you for your support. The next bill of order is complementary, association, to that. It won't be complete if we don't take a quick look at the next one. Please remain seated. I will certainly give the floor to Mr. Ruslan now. The draft Law amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for financing political parties) (No. 2138a) is now in line with the agenda. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, we support the simplified procedure. Please. [[18:36:40]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Lechchenko Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u169	My colleagues, thank you. This bill is technical, it is an amendment to the Budget Code – only one line reporting that the state budget also finances political parties. And since Mr. Ruslan Knazević has been mentioned, and he has not been given the right to a replica, I ask again by mentioning his name, to give him the right to a replica. And thank you for your support. I hope to adopt this same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u170	The focal point is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgeniyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u171	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'll be very brief. The Budget Committee almost unanimously supported this bill with only one remark – whether it is on time right now. But since we all support and remember that it will only be 2017, we need to get together to adopt a good block of economic bills to cover this cost in the budget. So from the Committee on Budgets, I ask you to support this bill, taking into account the adoption of the previous bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u172	Thank you. Colleagues, I am approached by many who wish to speak. No, it's not. We're going to write: 2 is for, 2 is against. We have to go through this procedure. Please write down 2 for, 2 for against. Please. Knazevitch Ruslan Petrovich, Petra Prashenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u173	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Well, of course, we will vote in favour of this bill because we are obliged to vote for it because we have just decided to support the previous bill. But I do have a proposal that was made by the author of the previous bill to entrust the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to prepare the previous, 2138a, for the second reading. Why would this offer make sense, and as far as I'm concerned, in the session room would it get? Because, my friends, 90 percent of those legislative acts that are subject to change as a result of the adoption of this law are election laws, political parties that are part of the knowledge of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. And what I'm going to tell you is that there are invalid absolutely things when there are changes to non-existent laws at this time. Because if you want this mechanism to really work and it's active, let's at least get people to look at it again. And then we can talk about what we're really going to do to the IMF, not declare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u174	Thank you. Mr. Andriy Sergiyovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u175	I think that's enough talking. The more we discuss, the fewer people in the room. Let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u176	Wise. Two more shows. This is Matvienkov, the Opposition Block, and Levchenko, and all of this, we're finishing the discussion. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u177	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City, Opposition Block. Respectable colleagues must certainly be independent parties. Of course, we must go to European methods of building an independent party force. But to do that, you have to add one more moment, probably to everything we're talking about right now. Remove all grants received by parties from international assistance, remove all external influences that come to parties, so that we can clearly understand that these are parties that are actually financed from domestic sources. This is the first moment. And second moment. Let's be honest with each other. You will ask any pensioner how he feels today that a person who has not been indexed since 1 January 2013 has not received sufficient funds today to go to a grocery store to buy or buy drugs, and we will send funds to the political forces and couples. This is one moment. And second moment. I'll tell you with full frankness. Whatever we accept with you now, if we don't now vote on Law 2960 and resolve the VAT issue, we're not going to be able to pay anything from the budget, I don't know what we're going to pay. Today, neither small nor medium-sized businesses, the virtually real economy is on the verge of survival. You're going to talk to anyone today who makes the goods that stand in the chain of goods. How will he survive in these conditions today?Oh, my God! And how does industry work today?Oh, my God! And let's face it, finally, these people! Let us stop playing and move on to serious issues. Therefore, I appeal: VAT laws, let's, in the end, unlock the situation and start to support our own producer in fact, not in words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u178	Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u179	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. People's deputies from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union have backed past law and we will uphold this law, but in the first reading. The fact is that we really have to do everything we can to finally rip off the parties of Ukrainian, so-called parties, because in fact, we don't have much of a party (most of it is a club of interest, in a country's wasteland) from their oligarchic masters. The situation is that neither this year nor the next year nor any more, and I feel the same way, because of one corresponding money in the budget. And we can't predict the situation in the country at all. Accordingly, we will propose to the second reading that this law enter into force, not on January 1, 2017, but on January 1, 2018. First. And secondly, so that expenses on political parties are not guaranteed, but that they depend on the economic situation in the state. If there are adequate possibilities in the state budget, these costs are proportionally coming here, if there is no such possibility, these costs are reduced. And they're not guaranteed, as is now prescribed in these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's decision: to take the basis and, in general, to take into account the committee's proposal. But since I heard a warning in the hall, I suggest we put it on the ground first, and then in general, so that we don't fail this bill. Is that accepted? Please. Yes, on the ground. I'm asking you to take up jobs. People's deputies are requested to come into the hall to confirm their anti-corruption orientation. And I'm voting on a draft law amending article 87 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (number 2138a). Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please. [[18:43:49]] For 237 Decision taken. Now I have a question: Can we put it all together? Is there a denial in the hall? There's a denial in the hall. Tell me, who has the objection? Levichenko, Knyazevich, Matvienka. I'm sorry. Yes! There's a lot of warnings I can't put on a second reading. Excuse me! But I welcome the adoption of this law, which is extremely important, which is the previous one, and we have taken a huge step, and the decision on it has been taken as a basis. And we go to the next question in order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015, number 2158a. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich. And there is a request to support its consideration by a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote. Please. [[18:45:12]] For 176 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u181	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For your consideration of Bill 2158a. The essence of the bill: the cost of environmental taxes and the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes, the Ministry of Finance of the Chernobyl Atomic Station and other enterprises of the alienation zone, actually, 31 December, and as for many local authorities, by many programs, in fact, it was not executed, the debt remained. This decision was constantly under government control. A bunch of errands: January, March, April, colleges, meetings, everyone supports. Then the team went to all the factions of the Supreme Council, and a bill was drafted that was supported by the Ministry of Finance, supported by the General Scientific and Experimental Authority, supported by the budgetary committee, because, in fact, these funds were still in the special fund and these debts were on the state-owned enterprise. That's why I'm asking you. The project is intended to increase the budget allocations from the State Budget special fund to a total of 135.7 million dollars at the expense of the remaining funds, which were the source of the environmental tax coming from the producers to produce radioactive wastes above the special terms of the licence. This debt is confirmed by the State Financial Inspectorate after the audit in June of this year, and also by the State Treasury Office is confirmed on a special account of the Ministry of the Remains of the Past, which proposes to pay off the outstanding debt. From this issue a number of Prime Minister's orders have been issued, as I have already said. The adoption of the bill will reduce social tensions at Chernobyl Station and its uninterrupted work. Now there are lawsuits and there are accounts blocking. Taking this into account, I ask all colleagues to approve it in the first reading and in general as a law in accordance with the Committee's decision on budget issues to make some clarifications to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u182	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Pavelko Andry Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u183	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich and distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs, at its meeting on 1 July, considered a bill amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015, number 2158a. The rapporteur is presented with the prescribed bill. The committee's consideration of the need to remove certain technical and legal inaccuracies in the bill, as noted in the Committee's conclusion. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made and the corresponding conclusion of the government. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill, provided that its provisions on the source of additional expenditure are clarified, which is considered by the committee. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 2158a to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals listed in its letter of foundation. Appropriately, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications in the drafting of such legislation. It should be noted that today’s plenary session provides for consideration of other bills on changes to the 2015 state budget, which also alter expenditure. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify the summary of the state budget expenditure in Appendix 2 to the bill, taking into account the bills adopted by the Supreme Council for consideration of the bill. Please support the committee's decision to take into account the sound. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u184	Thank you, dear fellows. I was approached by deputies who called for a discussion. And that's why I'm asking you to sign up for two, two against. Please 2 for, 2 for against. Lensky Alexiyyovich, "Radical Party." He's handing over Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u185	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I urge you to support the proposal of the budget committee and the authors and to vote on this bill as a whole. Because right now there is an appropriate donor conference in London, and it is up to the adoption of this law to determine whether or not Ukraine will receive 300 million euros for Chernobyl. So, honourable colleagues, let's support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u186	The Prince is passing Tomenko on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u187	Dear colleagues! I want to point out that this precedent that's created, that we need to do everything we can not to repeat it. Last year’s dissatisfaction arose when irresponsibleness, the unprofessionalism of several government authorities, led to the fact that the wages of people in the alienation zone for November and December were not paid. After that, only the President gave several assignments and held a meeting on April 26 in Chernobyl. Then our committee held two meetings -- one in Chernobyl, one in Kiev. Then there was another number of meetings. And all the government officials promised that this task would be extremely easy to do. More than six months have passed, and people without a salary in a critical situation in the alienation zone, where, on the one hand, the Torfians are burning, where donors control the use of funds, and we have two ministers nearby who cannot meet. And that's what we did in the Supreme Council six months later with Energoat, the Treasury, the Ministry of Finance and Minecology. Friends! Isn't that how you run the country? So I support the budget committee, which we usually have to support with these amendments in the first and in general. But not only do we require government officials to report to the American Congress, not just to go on television, but we are looking for two ministers to meet for six months. Shame! So we apologize to the people who are protecting Chernobyl and the agency in the Chernobyl area who are sitting without pay for six months. And let's correct this mistake so that the government will never allow it. We vote in the first and in the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u188	Thank you. Squirreluk Vladimir Vasilovich is handing over Unguryan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u189	Dear, distinguished colleagues, this is the State Agency for the Aliens Zone, which is the central authority of the executive branch, which applies horizontally to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. The state agency of the alienation zone operates and manages a vast territory in which there is also a legal entity called the Chernobyl nuclear station. Unfortunately, over the past many months, there has been a situation that we have been forced to solve in this, well, not entirely natural way, because, in fact, the costs of the State Environment Fund must be directed towards solving the very environmental problems that we have a lot in any area, in any city. Of course, this bill was on the budget committee and we discussed it with environmentalists, and we support it. I don't think there's any need to put it on second reading, we can vote it today both on the basis and immediately on the whole. But once again, I'm reminding you that we need to direct this desire and the future leadership of the ministry, we need to channel the funds of the environmental fund that come in the form of environmental taxes to solve our country's environmental, environmental problems. That's why the People's Front will support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u190	Please, Rudik's last speech. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u191	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila, Kamyanka, Cherkas region Dear colleagues, just recently we took off as Minister of Ecology of Shevchenk. Someone voted in favour of taking off this figure because he was flying abroad. I personally voted in favour of taking him out of office because six months after he became a minister, there was no manager in the alienation zone, and there was no superintendent in the agency, and Chernobyl was not getting a salary. That's why I co-authored this bill, and as a member of the budget committee, I ask you: support the Chernobylites, they've earned it for the benefit of all of us, protecting the sarcophagus and our peaceful sky, they've kept our people at peace. Thank you. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u192	Thank you. Deputy Wolf, one minute. Fishbuck, I'm sorry, Fishbuck, I'm sorry, please. Fisherman, one minute. And we go into the hall, we prepare for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u193	Dear colleagues, thank you for preparing this bill for the entire copyright team that prepared this bill, the budget committee. But it should also be recalled that today, when thousands of workers of the alien zone are employed daily in the alienation zone, such business leaders as the management of the Black Bill Special Unit, Mr. Kushchenko, are celebrating his birthday on the territory of the alienation zone. Today, it is time for Kabmin to ask why the Minister of Ecology is not nominated for consideration by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, let's vote for this bill, it's very important. But let's answer all the other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u194	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. All those who spoke in flames supported the bill. And so I ask you to prepare for the vote so that we can vote. Please come into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget for 2015 (to standardise the issue of pay for work and measures carried out by the State Agency for the Administration of the Aliens Zone), number 2158a, at the proposal of the Committee on the Basis and Overall. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[18:57:00]] For 280 280 for. Decision taken. Dear society, it's getting more and more, we're about to have a constitutional majority. And we move on to the next draft law. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Contracts for Distribution of Produce, No. 2131a. And, at the request of the author, I request his consideration of a reduced procedure. Please support me, please vote. [[18:57:45]] For 186 186 for. Decision taken. I am requesting a report from the Ukrainian national deputy Nasalik Igor Stepanović. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u195	Dear friends, I am pleased to see that we are considering a bill, a bill that not only deals with expenses from our budget, but also a bill that fills this budget. You have before you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Product Distribution Act. It is widely known that oil and gas production today is not just an economic component for our nation, it is a sign of Ukraine’s national security. It is clear that this year and last year, when the ATO war takes place, when the economic crisis, when laws that have a political component are adopted, such as the oil and gas rent. The oil and gas production in our country has changed significantly. I'd like to take a few numbers into your attention. In just six months, dear friends, Mrs. Svetlano, in just six months of the decline in oil production in our country, 11.3 per cent of the country's population, decrease in condensate of gas production, 10.1 per cent of gas condensate, 5 per cent of gas production. This is the result of a general action. What's proposed. First of all, we have 328 ancestry in Ukraine. Of these, only 22 are large companies. All the rest of the 310 are small deposits. Mali. For Self-Help, I'd like to say and give an example. There's a Battle of Granny's lineage on Prikarpath. It is the average in Western Ukraine. So it's been developed since 1889. He's got 650 wells. It's operated by ten state-owned enterprises. 650 aren't active at all. So this law gives us a general principle: (a) that you can, within the area that's being developed, allocate a separate area to engage investors. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u196	Please finish, but 10 seconds. 20 seconds, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u197	Okay, 20 seconds. That's what the bill says. To engage in the valid licenses of the state, which are located in Skrnaft and Crushing, additional investors. The other one. Make a deregulation. I mean, not agree twice in the Cabinet of Ministers on this deal. Third. It enables city budgets to calculate oil and gas production in Ukraine. So I ask you all to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u198	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u199	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 2131a, introduced by the People’s Deputies, is being submitted to your consideration. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill. According to the author, it will enable additional investments and significantly increase oil and gas production in Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u200	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the bill? There's a need. Only one is desirable. Please, Andrew Illenko, 1 minute, and let's go to the vote. And take your seats, please, people's deputies. Illenko Andrew, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u201	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to draw the attention of colleagues that the bill introduces changes that essentially allow, in agreement with the State, to renegotiate in the agreement to investors with sufficient financial resources, but do not have their own considerable experience of doing the work envisaged in the contract for the redistribution of products. We believe that this position is not meant for foreign investors, as the Explanatory Note states, but will essentially further contribute to monopolization by Ukrainian oligarchs, who will be able to create new companies and with a significant amount of statutory capital, and to buy a share in the distribution agreement. Therefore, we will not vote accordingly in favour of this decision, and we urge everyone to approach this bill carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u202	Thank you. The committee proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. And that's why I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Product Allocation Agreements (number 2131a). Please vote. Please vote. [[19:03:12]] For 213
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u203	Yes, 213. Colleagues, take your seats, please. 2131a and this is the first reading, I see. Come back, huh? Okay, okay. Please take your seats. Now we're going to be looking at the agrarian issues. Take your seats. Ready? Ready? 2131a, to return to consideration. Take your seats, please. Ready? In return, we will vote, and then with the agricultural sector, we will deal with the agricultural sector. Please, 2131a for your return, please support the offer to return to this issue. At the invitation of the deputies. Please vote return, vote back, colleagues. Return, we vote in favour of a return to consideration. [[19:04:28]] For 216 There weren't enough voices. Let's look at the factions. The national MP, Palamarczuk, was unable to vote. Please, the offer of the national deputy of Palamarczuk to return to 2131a. As for the return of 2131a, this is the first reading. Please, 2131a, return to consideration, be sure, fellow citizens. I won't put him back. The last offer of Palamarczuk and all. Identify yourself. [[19:05:37]] For 209 Friends, no votes, the law is rejected. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, I have held a meeting on question 2173a and 2173a-1, as if they have found the right approach to settle all the issues. There's an offer, dear colleagues, now to consider this issue of order of the day. Please support the proposal made by the Prime Minister and consider 2173a, and 2173a-1 are related draft laws. Please concentrate. Ready? Ready? Colleagues, please 2173a and 2173a-1. The offer is now to consider it. The proposal is now to vote on it. To see, to be precise, I'm sorry. Please vote to now consider 2173a and 2173a-1. Please, during the discussion, let us make a decision. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[19:07:04]] For 245 We're back to 245. More specifically, decisions were made regarding his consideration. Please have a general proposal for the results of the meeting, including the presence of the Cabinet of Ministers and the national deputy Evlakhov. Give the word now to Juliana Nina Petrovni, if you don't mind, and she'll take the stand. But before that, I would like to consider this bill in a simplified way. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[19:07:45]] For 196
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u204	196 for. Decision taken. The report is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u205	Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovn Jujanin, a general offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u206	Dear colleagues, you all know the difficulty that has now arisen with the application of the VAT electronic administration system. And when I look at the bill (registration number 2173a, from 30.06. 2015), we have just reached an agreement that all the chapters relating to agrarians regarding the VAT exemption from the bill are being removed. That is, articles 6, 12, 13 are being removed from the bill 2173a. If in other articles that I've probably not found a norm in a very short time, which also applied to the differences in the special VAT for farmers during technical and economic rights, they will be. Technical legal rights, they'll be cleaned up. Now it's about the electronic VAT administration system itself. What has been done on the committee in the last month has been exclusively about addressing all the shortcomings that have existed in the system and that have been stated by business to us on the committee. Of course, not all shortcomings are being corrected, but most of them are included in this bill. Besides, now we've agreed what to do. Except for those changes that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u207	Please complete your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u208	In addition to the changes that have been made in the very body of the bill, we have made further changes on the committee and agreed with the representatives of the DPS and the Ministry of Finance, which will be incorporated and incorporated into the general law if we accept it. In addition, we are now voting in addition to Article 200.1.4 of the Tax Code on the completing of the calculation of the costs of payers for this special account in the electronic administration system, we are supplementing it with sub-item "in" which will allow for the filling of the accounts of payers opened in the relevant treasury bodies for the purposes of clearing the difference in the tariffs on heat, heating and provision of hot water, centralized water supply services and water supply, which were produced, transported and supplied to the population and/or other enterprises of centralized drinking water supply and water supply, which were provided to the population of centralized water supply and water supply services, which were "incurred in connection with the failure of the actual cost of water supply and water supply". This is to solve all the problems of the heat utility. Next. We have just agreed to amend paragraph 34 of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Tax Code that fines for non-time registration of tax receipts are not registered with taxpayers until 1 October 2015. This is a question of delaying funds, i.e. there is no way to register within 15 days — neither 10 nor 30 or 40 percent of the fine does not occur. That is, if possible, this registration should take place. That's because we can't rewind the test mode as if we're fully capable of rewinding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u209	Dear colleagues, this is an agreed position for everyone. I'm betting on a 2173a vote, a total of 2173a, with the exception of the agricultural sector, with technical and legal rights and proposals announced by Nina Petrovna Jujanin. On the basis of, and in general, 2,173a, with the proposals announced by Nina Petrovna Jujanina. At her suggestion on the basis and in general, except for the agricultural sector. Please, colleagues, 2173a as a basis and in general with the suggestions that have been made. Vote. Vote. [[19:14:10]] For 224 Dear colleagues. We didn't make it? I see we haven't made it. For the return, dear colleagues. Don't take the vote, please. For the return of 2173a, please vote. For the return of 2173a. There's a proposal from the people's deputies, please. To return. Evlakhov, for your return. The offer was for a return. Let's vote, colleagues, for coming back to 2173a. Now we're going to continue to define this issue. [[19:14:46]] For 221 Colleagues, concentrate, please. Concentrate, please. Please, let's do it again. I see. On the way back to 2173a, on the way back. Let's vote, colleagues. We need to settle business problems today. We're about to split up, they won't know how to administer VAT. Please, 2173a for your return. Please be supportive. Vote. To return. Don't argue. Vote. [[19:15:28]] For 231 And now, as amended by Nina Petrovn Jujanin, my proposal for a total of 2173a is, please, a vote. With Yuzanin's technical and legal rights, with the exception of the agrarian sector and fines. Vote. [[19:15:47.]] For 233 Decision taken. The law was adopted on the basis and in general. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have a number of important questions, colleagues. See, 2406, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families). Andrew Antonishtak, a colleague of ours, worked on this law. And we've been away from him for as long as we can. And the second is Law 2781, the draft Act amending article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Pensions of Persons with Disabilities of War and some other categories of persons, as well as the Professional Committee. Dear colleagues. And we're moving on in the daytime. Colleagues, 2532, on humanitarian aid in second reading 2532, please, Tretyakov. Do not break up, please, even after the ATO, you need to make decisions. Please, 2532, Tretyakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u210	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Your attention is requested to consider, on second reading, a bill amending the Law on Humanitarian Assistance for the Rapid Adoption of Decisions. The bill envisages transferring to the authorities the functions of recognition of humanitarian assistance of goods weighing up to 3 tons and light vehicles for persons with disabilities, as well as the authority to control, upon receipt, storage, distribution and with the targeted use of humanitarian assistance. It's a real decentralization. To establish the responsibility, as a matter of priority, and to carry out free controls on humanitarian assistance, namely phytosanitary, environmental and radiological. Delete the limit limit, the amount of humanitarian assistance. The difficult situation that is now in the East of Ukraine is taken into account. Two very important issues were taken into account in the second reading by the committee. First, to allow for the identification of, as humanitarian assistance, vehicles that are sent to the power structures to ensure the conduct of the ATO. You know how cars drive today, just across the ATO corridor, and that'll be legal. Second, to enable the customs administration of humanitarian assistance to be carried out at more than 3 tons anywhere, not only at the recipient's location, as currently envisaged. That is, many charitable organizations are registered in Kiev, and the cargo is going to Lugansk region, first it has to bring it to Kiev and then take it to Lugansk. The bill had 29 rights to consider, of which 12 were taken into account. 12 are rejected and 17 are accounted for. Please support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u211	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Do we have to go get them? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm very quickly amended, there aren't many. I beg you, I'll call you names. 1st Korczak. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 2nd, Korczak. Don't insist. 3rd, Korczak. Don't insist. Four o'clock, Mantis. Don't insist. Five o'clock, Mantis. Don't insist. 11th, Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u212	One minute, concentrate. Don't insist. 14th, Dove. Don't insist. 15th, Chopstick. Don't insist. 16th, Korczak. Don't insist. 17th, Korczak. Don't insist. 18th, Ostrikova. Don't insist. 25th, Melniczuk. Don't insist. 26th, Lensky. Don't insist. 28th, Dove. Don't insist. And 29th, Stipka. Don't insist. I ask the MPs to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Mr. Abdullin, don't press the presidency, please. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the draft Law amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid (No. 2532) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. We're going to be determined, please. [[19:20:40]] For 221 Dear colleagues, be more careful! Do not vote, but be more careful. I'm betting on the return of the draft Law amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid (2532). Return, please vote. [[19:21:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Now I'm re-voting the draft Law amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid – 2532 in the second reading and in general. We're voting, we're deciding. Please. [[19:21:42]] For 242 Decision taken. Moving to the next bill of procedure, this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system – 0954. The rapporteur is Head of the Transport Committee Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u213	Good afternoon, presiding officer! Good day, national MPs! For your consideration, Bill 0954 states that roads are being moved, and public roads of local importance are being passed on to local authorities. Having considered this bill on the committee, which was introduced into the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament in the seventh call due to the fact that it had moved on from the previous call because 12 days had been missed in order to be able to fully amend it. Therefore, the Transport Committee has decided to now vote – for re-reading, there is no clear provision in this bill regarding the identification of road components and road service objects. There is a need for a specific distinction of authority between the authorities that manages road traffic in general. Most importantly, this bill is to be considered in conjunction with the Road Fund Bill. If we want to transfer the state-wide roads of local importance, which is about 18,000 kilometers on the shoulders of the local authorities, we have to provide this transfer with funding. So, please, from the committee, please, as chairman of the committee. The chairman will now put to the vote and second reading and in general not to vote, but to the next ballot for the second reading. And send this bill back to the Transport Committee. Thank you for your attention and for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u214	Thank you. So, respectable association, very quickly. Two o'clock, Unguran. Don't insist. Does anyone insist on repairs in the hall? No one insists. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the reform of the road traffic management system No. 0954. Committee proposal, second reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. For the second reading again. Please. [[19:25:04]] For 228 Decision taken. Next. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u215	Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the Transport Committee, we thank every national MP. If there are any amendments to this bill, please submit to the Transport Committee within the time limit set by legislation. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u216	Thank you. The next bill of the day is the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3, "The Final and Transitional Positions" No. 2940. The rapporteur is Head of the Budget Committee, Mr. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Member of the Committee, Mr Anatoly Sergiyovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u217	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! On June 16, the Supreme Council adopted Bill 2940 as a basis. In accordance with the terms of the bill, proposals were made. There were only three of them. Two proposals dealing with technical legal and editorial rights for the proper implementation of the relevant legislative initiative were supported by the committee. There was one suggestion to reject this bill. This proposal was not supported by the committee. On the basis of the Committee's consideration of the budget, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 2940 to adopt, on a second reading and as a whole, as a law, taking into account supported proposals in the proposed final text, as presented by the Committee in a comparative table to the bill, and to stress that this is an opportunity and to request the government to make effective use of this possibility. Please support the committee’s decision to vote in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u218	Thank you. Just one rejected amendment from MP Pinzenik, and I give him my word. Please turn on Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u219	Dear colleagues, if the obligation to repay a debt is taken by the government, this debt is called "direct debt". The bill that is proposed to accept this debt is called "guaranteed." But a guaranteed debt cannot be repaid by the State, but it must be returned by the borrower. In this regard, I have drafted a bill to reject the bill because, in fact, the bill opens up the possibility of non-budgetary financing of expenditure that is budgeted by nature, and it has no bearing on road construction. It's a question of debt. If you want to build roads, predict it directly in the State Budget. I ask you to support my amendment and not vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u220	The committee considered this amendment. I want to speak to you, my dear colleagues, with the conviction that such guarantees have always been given to Autodor, and I've been given this for years, including the period when Viktor Mikhailovich worked. The Autodor has now been credited so that as a result they only return all the money that is allocated in the budget to pay off their liabilities. We're offering the government another option. We're proposing that the government has a right, and today there's cheap money and especially cheaper money than even the IMF has, which we can use to build roads. And so please, we're not giving any credit yet, we're only giving an opportunity, especially for cross-border cooperation, such possible cheap money today can be involved. Let's give this a chance, or the economy will never rise, because we have a problem, not in Ukraine, but in Ukraine, we have a problem on the war roads, and until there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u221	Please give me the name Pinzenik. Please repeat, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u222	Thank you, Anatoly Matvienko, for giving me the opportunity to respond to the reply. Dear colleagues, it was Matthew himself who confirmed that these were different things. When the Kravtodore got the guarantees, the obligation to return stayed with the Krauttodor. What the law now proposes is that the obligation remains with the State. So what is the guaranteed debt? It's a direct government debt, and you don't have to lead us into fornication. I'm asking you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u223	Thank you. Just so I understand, this pinpong is going to last a long time? This could be endless. Please comment, head of the committee. Then I give Saul one minute, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u224	I emphasize once again that I am not the head of the committee, Pavelko we have the head of the committee, but I am a member of the committee, but this is also the author of the bill. The motorcade is a state institution, so let's not play pingong. It's because this government institution has obtained such guarantees that we have no institutions or roads today. So let's give this right to the government and let it determine which programs and whom guarantees can be given. And in this way we don't give anything today, we just give the right to the government, but as far as we control it, and we choose it, that includes our right. I'm asking you to support us if we want to do something about the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u225	Please, one minute of solo and we'll vote. Dear colleagues, please come in and take your jobs. Please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u226	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solovay. I want to express my support for this bill, because I think each of us, especially the majors, feel a huge problem of the road in their district. State funding for this moment is clearly not enough. It's the only law that allows you to involve, apart from government and investment funds in solving the problem of roads. And very serious costs. Dear colleagues, I appeal to all of you to clearly support this bill and step by step to resolve this very big and disgraceful road problem that exists today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u227	Thank you, dear fellows. I think we can go to the vote. Do I feel right in the room? I'm asking you to come in. I'm asking you to take your jobs. Now we, the Society, are going to make a signal vote. Because there is a risk that there may not be enough votes. Although it doesn't really matter, let's do it. Please, Your Honor, take part in a green vote. Please vote, signal vote. Please. [[19:32:39]] For-189 What are we going to do, a reputable reporter? Make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u228	If there's a chance, let's move on, because it's not, I mean, people are already in the hall to move to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u229	How about another one? Please vote in favour of moving the matter forward. I'm asking you to focus. I ask you to vote in favour of moving the matter forward. Please support the proposal, please vote. 2940, move. Please vote. [[19:33:31]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have no choice but to put the bill to the vote. If he doesn't make it. Okay. Attention! Well, then, company, good. But I'm asking you one thing. Colleagues, the only thing that can go through is the question that unites everyone. We have this question that Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich was talking about. This is question 2406 – the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families). This is Antonistak's bill, passed by a committee that allows for greater protection for our heroes who passed from the ATO. It went through all the procedures. This is a question that unites the entire room. I'm asking you guys, let's take a look at this bill right now. And I very much ask, according to this bill, a signal vote on the bill on social protection of the military. I request a signal vote to confirm my readiness to accept it now in the hall. Please, Your Honor, take part in the signal vote. Vote, please. It's an important bill. [[19:35:02]] For 208 Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'm sorry. The MPs are walking around the hall, please, dear colleagues, we're short a few votes. I ask you to approach your workplace for one minute. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you now that we have those in the towers, we lack a few votes for an important bill. I very much ask you to vote again now. Mr. Stephen, I ask you to vote. We have 226 friends. We are 226. We're just not organized enough. Dear colleagues, please re-vote 2406. Dear colleagues, please take part in and support this bill as a signal vote. Please vote. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, we are taking part in the vote. Vote. Signal vote. [[19:36:10]] For 209 Society, Society, Honorable Fellows! I'd like to inform you that unfortunately, there are no votes in the room right now. And I'm handing over to the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Borisovich, the conduct of our difficult session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u230	Dear colleagues! Let's not create any problems with voting right now, important laws. There's just no physical voices in the room, as far as I can tell. Andrew, tomorrow we're going to vote one of the first 2406. We'll vote tomorrow. Dear colleagues, then I propose as follows. It's very important that we didn't vote on the election order. We didn't vote in 2406. There are still a number of important laws that we could adopt tomorrow. There's a proposal and tomorrow morning's 10 o'clock in the morning for everyone to come. For us to work well tomorrow, we have made all the decisions that matter. And so they did what they needed to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u231	Let's cancel the government's hour. The Prime Minister will come with information and we'll start working. One moment, one moment, fellows! I haven't closed yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Svetlana Mikhailna Vojciekhovska, National Front. One minute, colleagues, I haven't closed the meeting yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u232	Dear colleagues! It was just said that there are laws that unite the halls. I would like to draw your attention to the bill 2335a, which was passed yesterday by the budget committee, where saved money from the Supreme Council's apparatus is transferred to the budget programme to support and a friend of the textbooks for our educational institutions. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to include in the agenda for tomorrow and to vote on this law as a whole. If we do not, on September 1st we will not be able to give this compensation to our parents and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m1.u233	Thank you, colleagues. We'll turn it on tomorrow. I'm giving a mandate to the Supreme Council's apparatus to deal with this. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we'll continue to work at 10 a.m. A hundred percent turnout, please, colleagues. Thank you.
