ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow dignitaries! Today, we have a day-to-day cluster of issues related to national security and defence. This is a set of issues that require a consolidated and joint decision of the entire Parliament. The Coalition Council is now taking place, where all the heads of factions are present. And there is a great request from all the heads of the coalition factions that we give more time to discuss these important issues. And so on behalf of the Council of the Coalition and the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to announce that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 12 o'clock on this cluster of issues. It is a great request to stay in the workplace and at 12 o’clock so that we can start our work in a coherent and systematic manner. So the start of our work will be at 12 o'clock. Thank you. I'll see you later. To productive work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u2	As the Council of the Coalition continues its meeting, there will be no meeting in the morning. The evening session will begin at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u3	Good day again, dear fellows. First of all, I'd like to apologize for not starting our session at 10:00 a.m., apologizing to my fellow deputies, and to the millions of Ukrainians who are watching our work. And once again, the first issues in the agenda today are the issue of national security and defence, a matter of extreme importance, on which the development of events depends to a large extent not only in Ukraine but also outside Ukraine. So it turns out that we are the Supreme Council of Wartime, the time of occupation. And those questions that we consider today need a responsible, consolidated position of all branches of government. It also depends on the extent to which a large-scale invasion of the land is possible, depending on how much we can increase the security of our nation. From 9 a.m., the faction heads have been consulted. There is now a meeting of the coalition leaders with the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I very much ask all the deputies, all those who are watching our work, with great understanding and a great level of responsibility to accept this situation. We have to go out to a consolidated and joint vote on important decisions. Unfortunately, this common position is now being developed. So I'm asking the people to stay in their jobs. We'll start our work at 5 p.m. And I very much ask that at 5 p.m. we all be in the session room and ready to make important and responsible decisions. I'm sorry again. And at 5 p.m., we'll continue our work. It's 5:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin in a few minutes. Whoever's in the towers, please come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u5	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! I ask the secretariat to invite all the national deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. We can start our session. There have been consultations of the Coalition Council all day, so we've carried over several meetings, because today we have a number of important issues to consider in terms of the peace process, the implementation of the Minsk Accords, the appeal to international organizations that relate to the security of our country. So I would like to suggest to you today a special order for us to address these issues so that we can consider them and make appropriate decisions before the end of our meeting. So I ask the national deputies to take their seats in the hall so that we can start our registration. Please come in, take your seats, fellow nationals. Please turn on the glade system for registration. [[17:10:14]] 332 National Deputies in the Hall. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleague Helen Masorina with her birthday today. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Welcome, Helen. We wish you success. Dear fellow national MPs, there is an offer today to consider at this session, which I declare open, to consider a number of drafts that are extremely important, which today require a special procedure of consideration. In particular, it is proposed to include in the agenda of today's session the issues raised by the President of Ukraine under registration number 2374, draft 2378, draft law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. Next, the draft Decision on the Identification of Individual Areas, Cities, Villages, and Villages of Donetské and Luhanské Districts, which introduces a special order of local self - government (registration No. 234). Next, 2379, the draft Decision approving the appeal on behalf of Ukraine to the Security Council of the United Nations and the Council of the European Union regarding the deployment of an international peace and security operation in Ukraine. As well as the draft Law approving the decisions of the President of Ukraine concerning the admission of military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2015 for participation in multinational education. In particular, I would like to point out that there is now one regulation on the definition of individual territories temporarily occupied. It's also after, as soon as it's prepared, the leaders of the coalition factions will be brought to your attention and we can look at it. There is a special arrangement for dealing with these issues. That is: these bills are defined as urgent, and draft decrees to refer to the international organizations concerning the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to include in the order of the session, to consider and decide on them at this plenary session. There's this proposal and the proposal to consider it in a simplified way is a decision. But from factions and performances and announcements, that is, we, as always in this matter, will find understanding and will be able to discuss each issue as much as necessary. If there is no objection, I will now put to the vote on the special order of consideration and procedure for addressing the issues that I have just announced and we will move on to the issues of the agenda. Is there no objection? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote of the honourable national deputies. I put to the vote a special proposal for a review that I have just announced, and a separate commission (please form it) for draft legislation, draft laws. Amendments to Ukraine’s draft laws and regulations (registration number 2378, 2374, 2379, 2346 and 2260). Please support the inclusion in the agenda and the definition of the particular order of consideration of the issues, as proposed by me. Please vote on the proposal I just made, and please support it, your fellow national MPs, please. [[17:14:26]] For 241 Decision taken. And the order in which the issues are dealt with, and the inclusion in the agenda is approved. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, according to the Supreme Council's decision. During the discussion, we will give talks from factions. Draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Luhansk Region, introduced by the President of Ukraine (registration No. 2378). The rapporteur, according to the short-term procedure voted, Stepan Kubi, co-rapporteur, Secretary of the Committee for State Buildings of Honcharenko. Please, Stepan Ivanovich, report to the rostrum. May I have your attention, fellow Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (Registration No. 2378), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. Ukraine's Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Districts of Donetsk and Lugansk is aimed at ensuring the democratic conduct of local elections, resulting in the restoration of normal activity in the areas noted. In order to achieve that goal, it is necessary to specify the specific provisions of the law, which is the purpose of the bill passed by the President of Ukraine under number 2378. In line with the bill of articles 2-9 of the Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region, the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government will only work as long as the authorities of local self-government have gained authority. Only after the specified period will the authorities of local self - government have the right to implement a special order of their activities. It is also suggested that local elections should be held in an orderly manner, taking into account the accepted international standards. This is planned by participating in the electoral process of international watchdogs. This position will play a significant role in preventing illegal interference with voting, including illegal armed formations, since the newly elected local authorities must be not only legitimate but also independent. In addition, the standards ensure that the guarantees of free and secret ballots are respected, that persons who have been forced to leave their homes through hostilities are internally relocated. Finally, it should be noted that it is equally important to implement the provision on the freedom of pre-election agitation and equal access to the media. The position in accordance with the introduced draft Law should be implemented through the restoration of Ukrainian television broadcasting and the circulation of Ukrainian printed media throughout the area. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u7	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Alexei Hotcharenko. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u8	Dear Sir, national deputies, present! Drafts of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Luhansk Region (Registration No. 2378), submitted by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, and defined as urgent, were considered by the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at the meeting this morning. As stated in the explanatory note to the bill, the need for its adoption is due to the need to specify the validity of specific provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region, and the need for the implementation of generally accepted international standards to be a prerequisite for transparent and democratic elections. This is achieved by supplementing article 10 with the final positions, two additional points that contain the proposed innovations. I note that the project clearly defined the date of entry into force and clearly stated that the implementation of its provisions would be carried out by exclusively newly elected local self-government authorities. In addition, it is envisaged to identify a number of key conditions for the holding of out-of-court elections, one of which is the removal of all illegal weapons from Ukraine, their military equipment, fighters, and mercenaries. It is also proposed to establish standards of democracy, openness, transparency of the electoral process, its unconditional conformity with the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law. In adopting this law, the Supreme Council sets a very high record of the appropriateness of such possible elections to all democratic procedures and legislation in Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, the committee adopted a recommendation to the Supreme Council for a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 10 of the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region, submitted by President Peter Poroshenko of Ukraine, to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. It is also proposed, in the event of the adoption of this law, that a committee be appointed, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undertake its technical and legal work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Please sign up from factions and groups for the performance. Please. From factions, groups, please. People's Front. Victoria Petrovna Sumar. Andrew Teteruk, please. Please set three minutes from the rostrum. Order is three minutes from the rostrum. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u10	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, Honorable Ukrainian People! Today we need to support the adoption of the Law on Special Order of Local Self-Government. I'd like to express my position of the People's Front faction on this matter. Who wants to live in a state of war all the time? No one, especially the sick. It is painful to acknowledge, but the observance of the Minsk format for today is the only condition for peace and achievement, for the return of peace to Ukrainian lands. The only way we can use diplomacy. Do we like this law, or do we like this format? Of course not. But knowing that we are living in war and losing the lives of Ukrainians every day imposes upon us the obligation to take decisive action to bring peace back to the Ukrainian land. We must do our utmost to hold fair elections under the control of the Ukrainian authorities, to return the inhabitants to the Ukrainian land, to conduct observers in the Ukrainian territory, to force all fighters, all of them, to leave our Ukrainian land. Take out all the techniques of Russian mercenaries and anything that creates military conflict. And begin the process of restoring life on our Ukrainian lands. Please note separately that the copper of Russia is strongly opposed to the adoption of this law, also explicitly against the militants who are now carrying out weapons to destroy all Ukrainians in Ukrainian territory. And let's also look at the result of the vote, who still supports the continuation of military action in our Ukrainian territory. The People's Front faction also supports the vote in general, on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, National MP Voropayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u12	You're saying you need peace. Yes, we all need peace. All the people of Ukraine need peace. A unconditional world. What does this bill do? First, it is proposed that all be capitulated, one party, and only after that will separate drafts be considered, which will create special conditions. What are the special conditions? Show them in the bill. They are not there, there is only the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare such special conditions. Such a vote cannot be voted on in any way. And this law, it will take away the world for a long time. The faction of the Opposition Unit has prepared draft laws in the spirit and in the text of each letter of the Minsk Agreement on all the issues covered there, including the special status of those Territories, including amnesty, including the resumption of pensions and benefits, including humanitarian assistance and so on. For each point. We propose not to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u13	Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Now we're going to consider three important decisions of Parliament that will apply to a third of Ukrainian Donbas. The first law and two other decrees. These laws are not for Putin. These laws are not for Europe or America. These are laws for Ukraine, for its future. These laws do not lead to a battle for the ruins of our land, and these laws lead to Ukraine’s future architecture. For the future restoration of Ukraine's sovereignty, there is one way to restore the effect of Ukrainian laws on that third of Ukrainian Donbas, which is temporarily controlled by militants and the Russian regular army. That's why today we're adopting a law that defines the possibility of electing local authorities in this area at a time and only when the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian state bring the Ukrainian flag, the Ukrainian parties and the Ukrainian law to this territory. No concession is given to the Kremlin or to separatists, and even more so to terrorists. Yes, you can abuse the ultra-patriotic phrase and talk about the fact that it's not the time to adopt any laws on peacemaking, you have to prepare for war. I don't care!? Who in this room is against building an army?? This Parliament has decided more than anyone to build the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But this Parliament should also think about what will happen after the victory of the Ukrainian soldier. Then there will be a million refugees on the Ukrainian Donbassa who will be there by the new Ukrainians. Then there will be Ukrainian parties, Ukrainian militias, Ukrainian CBCs, Ukrainian flags that will once be chosen, I believe that soon the local deputies of Ukraine will be from Donetsk and Lugansk. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" calls for support for all three bills: the Law on Special Status of Self-Government, the Ordinance on the Identification of Areas, which defines what is laid down in our interests, in the interests of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the third bill that defines this territory as temporarily occupied. The inseparable link between the three documents will provide a peaceful and basic Ukrainian perspective on the Ukrainian Donbashi. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u15	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." Oleg Berezuk, please, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Mr. Head, you know, this gentleman, I'm sorry, is talking about the fact that this law is common in cymbals. I'm sorry for the nonsense. [[Applause]] Today, perhaps for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we are working as a parliamentary coalition with executive power in a rather harsh, not simple, but direct, understandable and honest relationship. This law we in the Self-Help faction called it the law of peace, as if the law against war, if we didn't accept it, would be war. That's not really the case. In fact, Ukraine today, which is at war with Russia, is leading it on several fronts -- diplomatic. And this is the law that is the sign of diplomatic war and negotiation. Nothing else, but there is another real war. And we associate with that law, your honorary colleagues, and we ask the High Commander and Prime Minister of Ukraine to defend the country. The defeats in Ilowaysk and Debaltsovo indicate that the time has come for the change of the country’s headquarters. We're asking for it, we're asking you to do it. Second, under the Coalition Agreement, we had to establish a focal point for weapons, where we could control the efficiency and speed of purchasing and manufacturing our own weapons. Where is he? [[Applause]] Where is the First Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister for Arms, where is he? What do we hide in the absence of these things? Corruption, not wanting to do it. The next thing is, civilian control of the state's military organization. Five faction leaders signed under the creation of this committee. Why has he not been created to this day? That's what this law is about. Then the state will be stronger. And the last. No terrorists can tell us how to build our state and the Constitution. Paragraph 11 of these deals says that under these arrangements, I'm hyperbolizing, the Constitution of Ukraine will be changed. The Constitution of Ukraine will not be changed under these conditions. The Constitution of Ukraine, from the point of view of the Self-Help Party, will be as the people of Ukraine would like. And lastly, ladies and gentlemen. This law cannot be voted on without a third law: recognition of territories occupied by occupied territories. [[Applause]] And this is the basic condition of today's vote that we've been discussing with the President of Ukraine all day long. I consider this to be a serious political and consolidated position that we would support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I just want to let you know that there's already a decision, about the third decision that you're talking about. And I will, once this is done, bring it into the agenda, and I will also consider it by special procedure. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, unlike many deputies who don't care what we're looking at and who are talking about when we're discussing the actual issue of the existence of a state, I'm asking you, millions of Ukrainian citizens, to understand what's going on in this room. Several times in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament were black dates for which many generations of Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian politicians would be ashamed. This is January 16, 2014 – the dragon laws of Yanukovic. This is September 16, 2014, when we voted in secret under the Donbas Special Status Act, actually going to implement Putin's plan. This is April 26, 2010, when we voted in favour of ratifying the continuation of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine, in fact the Trojan horse that carried out its disgraceful mission, captivating Crimea a year ago. This is 1991, when we voted no, for establishing a nuclear-free status in Ukraine. Today, today – March 17, 2015 – will enter the Ukrainian history as a black date for the Ukrainian calendar. We are invited today to actually implement what has been signed in Minsk. What was signed in Minsk? We are told that if we vote today, we will avoid war. Unfortunately, if we could have at least one chance through this law to avoid war, I would have voted with both hands. This law only strengthens, provokes war, because our weakness -- we agree, by implementing Donbas' special status, by agreeing to hold elections. We tell the story after the Ukrainian authorities are restored. Let's free these territories first, and then we'll adopt laws that will allow for fair elections there. [[Applause]] Next, read the mine protocols: by the end of 2015, the implementation of constitutional reform with special status for Donbas. We already had a special status, which ended in the annexation of Crimea. The National Police, the National Prosecutor's Office, special rights for these areas, that is, those who are killing Ukrainian citizens today -- they will be in power tomorrow, they will be sitting here in the Supreme Council tomorrow. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of these laws. We are trying to vote for these laws in order to avoid war, in fact, we are calling for, in Winston Churchill's words, we are calling for disgrace, which will ultimately bring both shame and war. And the words of Churchill, Winston Churchill, the British Prime Minister, have already been mentioned, if our politicians are not enough, they may hear it: "Never give up, never, never, never, never, never, in the big or the small or the small or the small. Never give up. Never give in to the power. Never give in to the apparently overwhelming power of your opponent." We have no other way than to fight. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u19	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I think today's talk is, in principle, not about the law or the decree. And today, the decision that will be made is likely to be made not on a party basis, not on a fractional basis. For you to decide on these two documents – the decree and the bill must be made by every citizen, every person, based on certain, absolutely obvious things today. The decision that we're proposing is actually going to be the exact coordinates of the current population points to approve, I emphasize, the de facto new border between Russia and Ukraine, because that line that goes through is not just a line of collision, if there's a whole other area that's different from the entire Ukraine of law and rules. This means that there will be elections for people whose hands are in Ukrainian blood. And someone has doubts that these elections will be based on forgeries in occupied territories, and it is those who have killed Ukrainians, and who has destroyed our state? Who have doubts as to which judges, whose prosecutors they will agree with the Ukrainian authorities for appointment? And today, when we talk about the conduct of this line, we must also remember that so far the official state border between Ukraine and Russia has not been demarcated because Russia has never allowed Ukraine to establish our national border by demarcation. And that means we don't have any other coordinates of the legitimate border than the collision line. Now the question is, what do we do now? We decide whether to separate part of Ukraine or not? Are we willing to pay such a price for peace, or are we not ready? And it's not a party question, it's not a faction. This is everyone's question: are we really ready to make this decision? Today, part of the country is ready to make such a decision. And establish peace at any cost, including the return of the territory. But some people are not prepared under any circumstances. So each of you makes a decision. Our team has decided to vote freely because no one can now impose such a decision in an imperative order. I personally will not be able to vote for it morally, mentally, or from the point of view of my inner faith. But at the same time, the next question is whether or not it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u21	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u22	I won't be done in ten. Give me 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u23	Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u24	And will peace give us the return of the territory of Donbas to Russia today? I can tell you for sure that's not clear, because there's already a game going on. At a time when Ukraine has been forced to vote in favour of these laws, at the same time, there's a statement made by the Ministry of Justice of Russia, where they say it doesn't suit them, and they will move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u25	Please let me finish for ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u26	That means they've already reached this border, and then they'll go like this. how they want it, and they've told us publicly about it. My dears! Today we make a historic decision for the decade when this wall falls between the occupied territory today and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u27	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u28	It will be much easier to return the temporarily occupied territory to Ukraine, the territory approved by the Ukrainian National Parliament, which will no longer be Ukrainian in substance. And that's why we have to think very hard. This will not bring peace, but will result in the loss of territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u29	Please, Victor Bondar. Please. Victor Bondar, Rebirth. Please, I'd like the national MPs to pay your attention to this important issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, a decision that is important to the country today is a decision that is of great importance from the perspective of how events will continue in Ukraine. Sadly, the bill that was tabled today came to Parliament only yesterday. He was only able to read it at night and today, and such discussions are very important. And that's why there are so many information situations and internal conflicts between factions in Parliament today, including within the coalition. Our group is set up to support the President's position in order to ensure peace in Ukraine, to stop the war, and to answer people's questions about how to move forward. We will support this bill in order to stop further military action, but at the same time we insist that we continue to have a clearly prescribed package of legislative and parliamentary legislation, a government that will literally respond to what will be the development of events, how social payments will be made, how will interaction with this territory be ensured, how will transparent and democratic elections be ensured, which will not lead to separatist power in these areas, but allow all political parties to be represented and hold elections in such a way that people's will actually be chosen, not by machine guns. We insist that the bills that have been tabled be introduced in advance under the Rules. And then there will be no such discussions that are taking place today in this room, and there will be no such conflicts. We understand that today there are representatives who are willing, for the sake of ratings, to insist on further military action, to fight at all costs for the territories and at all costs to continue this war. Our position is to enter into peace agreements. We don't know how the negotiations were held in Minsk, we're not participants, we're the President, who was clearly in the middle of the process that the bill introduced today, he's responsible for how the developments will continue and how this territory will remain Ukrainian forever. But there must be additional consultations, additional legislative acts. And we're willing to put our shoulders on the line to resolve the issue peacefully and give these areas Ukrainian status, with Ukrainian territorial jurisdiction, with Ukrainian legislation and with Ukrainian base. Thank you, the group will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, ask the MPs to take their seats. I invite you to take the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andreya Parubia. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, Ukrainians. Many debates around the bill today and very little in the law itself. I want to inform you that this law does not make concessions, but we block many of those provisions of last year's law that have raised doubts about many Ukrainians and about us as deputies. With the President's amendment, we're actually blocking many of those positions that are causing discussion. This amendment speaks of one thing that we can go to any negotiation only after elections are held in Donetsk and Lugansk areas, in those plots where the occupying forces are present today, under the full control of the Ukrainian authorities. I would like to point out that we demand that the elections be held, not under the supervision of the Kokhtian tankers or the Kadir snipers, but under the supervision of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities and the Ukrainian militia. And it's no wonder that all the official sources of the Russian Federation have literally been saying that we shouldn't adopt this law. From the very morning on, the leaders of terrorist groups have been saying that these laws are breaking the Minsk Accords. The position of the Opposition Block, which has declared that these laws are not compromises. And it turns out that these laws force one side to surrender. What side do you represent here in Parliament? The other side is the roadowners. [[Applause]] You're worried that we're going to have to capitulate them, and we're going to say, "Occupy or forced to surrender or be destroyed by the Ukrainian army." And we don't have another conversation with the invader. So I would like to point out, Your Honor, that these laws provide for full control of Ukraine in the territory that is occupied today. And today, we will vote on another decree that will determine the occupied territories. Our task today is to set this necessary condition. Can we stop Putin from making a large - scale attack? No, we can't. If he decides, they'll move on. But this position can keep the world partnership around Ukraine. And so I urge you not to listen to the Russian Duma, not to listen to the fighters, the terrorists, the invaders, not to listen to the Opposition Block, not to be afraid, not to give up, to vote for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u33	Heroim Slava! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, national MPs! Your attention, please. All members of the People's Parliament are kindly requested to take their seats in order to begin the voting procedure on this matter. But before that, I want to say one thing. Friends! I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, national MPs! Your attention! You know, I'm having a lot of international meetings, and when I hear sometimes that they avoid calling things their names on Russian aggression, I always point out that Ukraine today has given in to unscrupulous Russian aggression. And these things have to be called their names. You don't have to hide anything. And now I want to use the opportunity to name things by my own names. Dear friends! This Law on the Characteristics of Local Self - Rule for a Certain Period After Free, Democratic, Ukrainian Local Elections in Separate Territories. There is no separate status, no other body that is not provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. And second position. We define territories not for the state border, because the state border we have is the only one and we will fight for it, and we will win along with the entire civilized world. We define the areas that we need to reintegrate into normal life and pull out of the clutches of the aggressor, the invader and the terrorist, the peaceful population of Ukraine, the citizens of an independent state. So I urge everyone today to support this decision, to take responsibility, because this is our responsibility. We were chosen to make decisions for which we were responsible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u34	And I ask, fellow Members, to proceed to the voting procedure, taking into account the position of the committee, as expressed by Alexi Honcharenko, on the basis and in general (registration number 2378). Please vote and please support. Please vote, Your Honor, (2378) as a basis and as a whole with the Committee's proposals. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:48:43]] For 265 [[Applause]] Friends, the glory of Ukraine! We are doing our utmost to declare peace in Ukraine and to bring back the occupied Crimea, which is very important. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, I would like to make another decision, as we agreed, by the five factions of the Coalition, Decree 2396, which has the title: the definition of individual areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetské and Lugansk regions temporarily occupied by territories. I propose to this decree the same order of treatment as the previous laws, and to place it in the agenda at number 3. Please support this proposal. And I ask you to vote, Your Honor. Please be supportive. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda and consideration and decision-making. Of course, dear friends, we'll give it all away and announce it. [[17:49:45.]] For 293 Thank you. During the discussion, we will speak. 293. Decision taken. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, the draft Decree (registration number 2374) is being submitted to your consideration, the draft Decision on the Identification of Certain Areas, Cities, Villages, and Villages of Donetské and Lugansk Areas, in which special order is established (pay attention!) A special order of local self - government. I think all the proposals here have already been announced from this rostrum. And I'd like to turn now to the proposal that comes out of the hall to vote on the bill as a basis and as a whole. I put to the vote (registration No. 2374) a draft decree on the identification of specific areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, in which a special order of local self - government is established. There is a proposal to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general. And I'm asking you to back me up. We just said that question. Please vote. Please vote for an independent Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:50:53]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. You will be presented with the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 2396 on the recognition of individual areas, cities and villages, and the villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions temporarily occupied. Now I want to read under the transcript the text of this decree, which is prepared by five factions of the coalition. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to recognize as temporarily occupied areas separate areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region, a special order of local self-government is established until all illegal military formations, their military techniques, as well as fighters and mercenaries from Ukraine and the restoration of Ukraine's full control over the state border of Ukraine." That's the first point. And paragraph two. "This decree takes effect from the day of its publication." It says, "Head of the Supreme Council." Is there a need, colleagues, to discuss this determination? None. She is the author of five, and she is the author of five suggestions. Dear fellow national MPs. Colleagues, listen, the offer is made in five factions in authorship. You signed it, Oleg Valeriyovich. You signed it. Please, just a minute, Oleg Easy out of the way. Proposal for a decision, proposal. Proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, we propose to remove from the text a reference to the Special Order of Hostage Act in these territories. And most importantly, the withdrawal from this territory of illegal military formations, as well as the Russian Armed Forces, which are now on our Donbassy. Let's not hide the truth, there's Russian troops, that's what the Ukrainian authorities have repeatedly claimed to be, that's how it should be written. On the withdrawal from the occupied territory of Donbas of illegal military formations, Russian military formations, weapons folding, and border crossings. That's the only way to get rid of the occupation, and if you're afraid to call it Russian troops, then don't tell people that you're liberating this territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, I thought there would be a constructive proposal, I would like to point out that 2396 were prepared by the national MPs, which was introduced by the coalitions. I read the text of the decree to you. A proposal is made for this provision, which is worked out, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole, for it is acceptable to all. Please vote and vote. Please vote. Why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u37	[[From the Hall]] With my offer of Russian troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u38	Stop voting. Stop voting. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u39	Mr. Head, Your Honor, I ask you to support the proposal. Oleg Valeriyovich! I ask for support from Oleg Valeriovich Láska for the investment of the Russian occupying forces, as he put it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-17-m0.u40	Thank you. I request the proposal just announced by Oleg Berezuk to clarify Oleg Láška with this proposal as a basis and as a whole, please vote on 2396. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support for the basis and overall offer of Oleg Berezuk 2396. [[17:54:38]] For 280 Decision taken. Fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, you are being reviewed by draft Decree 2379, draft Decree approving a petition on behalf of Ukraine to the United Nations Security Council and the Council of the European Union regarding the deployment of an international peace and security operation in Ukraine. Reporter of Foreign Minister Paul Klimkin. Please, Minister. There is a proposal to vote. Is there no objection? Honorary colleagues, at the suggestion of the National Deputies, have put to the vote a draft decree (registration number 2379), a draft decree approving an appeal on behalf of Ukraine to the Security Council of the United Nations and the Council of the European Union regarding the deployment of an international peace and security operation in Ukraine. There is a proposal on the ground and in general, please vote, please support. On the basis and in general (registration number 2379). This is a constitutional majority. Everyone wants peace. [[17:55:40]] For 341 Thank you all for your support. Honorary colleagues (registration number 2346) of the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2015 for participation in multinational education. There is a proposal for coalition factions to immediately vote on the draft decision. Is there no objection? Your consideration is based on the committee’s decision (registration number 2346). I would like to vote on the basis and in general, which is given and considered by the committee. On the basis and in general, 2346. Please vote, please support. [[17:56:29]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, according to our previous decisions, you will be brought to your attention by the registration number of the Project Decree No. 2260. Draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the violation of human rights and freedoms in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (imposed by the People’s Deputy, Fries). There is a proposal for a profile committee, as well as for the author, to vote on the basis and in general the draft Decree. Is there no objection? Please, I'm taking you up on this. [[B in m in s a l in]] And also, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol (registration number 2260), add the name and the essence of the city of Sevastopol. 2260 is based on, and in general, the proposal mentioned. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[17:57:40]] For 302 Dear fellow members of the national parliament, 302 – the decision is made. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, given that we have conducted very thorough consultations today within the Parliamentary Coalition on the agenda and the agenda has been defined by those issues that have just been considered, I am, using my right, proposing to conclude today's meeting and tomorrow from 10 a.m. to consider agenda issues. I declare the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We're meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honourable Fellow People's Deputies.
