ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for the beginning of our work, for registration. Dear colleagues, we come into the hall from the towers, we take up jobs. I'd like to inform you that there was a meeting late yesterday on Bill 1088 on the application of accountancy registers in the area of trade, public nutrition and services related to cashiers. The plates are ready now. These plates will be given to you during the beginning of our work, hours and a half. And once the plates are handed out, this bill will be put to the vote. We were able to find a compromise that wouldn't put a lot of pressure on entrepreneurs and that would be acceptable to the IMF. This position was adopted in conjunction with coalition factions and government. And once the plates are handed out, this bill will be put to the vote. And I'm sure it'll be supported by a hall. And now we're going to start our work under the Rules. Let's put it in order of the day. Please prepare for registration now. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Okay. I ask the honourable deputies to register. Please register, please register. [[10:04:07]] There are 295 deputies registered in the hall. We can start our work. And I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. On Wednesday, according to our Rules, we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. And I'm asking the National Deputies to get ready and sign up for the speech. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the performance. Please record. Head Mikhailo Josephovich. Please, from the rostrum, solemnly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u2	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to emphasise that today's speech, attention to a few of the key issues that are now, are of great concern to Ukrainian society. The biggest problem for us Ukrainians is the incompetence of our government that does, I don't know what it does, and then of course it cancels. For example, they first introduce a bill, tax 15 percent of pensions, and now they want to cancel it. Then the mandatory use of cashiers is introduced, and now there is this problem, and they are trying to undo it again. It seems that the government does not understand at all what he wants, what he needs to do, and what the fate of the Ukrainians. We can see that this government is unprofessional and incompetent. I would like to point out that there are a number of important bills in the session room. First. It's a big problem that there are lobbyists who are trying to cancel the standard that we finally got to compare beer to alcohol. But unfortunately, there are lobbyists in the lobby who are trying to cancel this, and I understand that these are the great billions that will be sitting in the pockets of those lobbyists, and that would be the cost of going to the economy, just for the recovery of Ukrainian society, because statistics today are terrible, the Ukrainian nation is sung and degraded, because, you know, we're taking a disgraceful first place in the world in teenage alcoholism and the amount of ethyl alcohol consumed per capita today is catastrophic about 16 liters. This suggests that, according to the UN, if a nation drinks more than 8 liters, it is already going through an irreversible process of extinction, extinction, and degradation of the nation. Our job is to do everything we can to protect young people and Ukrainian society, so that they don't get any sleep, or that we have to create jobs to develop sport, culture, and to be a spiritual and healthy nation, and not, I understand, make billions of these beer lobbyists themselves. So our job is not to miss this law 2971, government, by the way, and it's understandable why the government lobbies it, so that's why it wants to have large dividends private. We also, I would like to point out that there are other important bills in the agenda today. Our political power, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, will support the repeal of bills for the introduction of cashiers. We're demanding that we put Bill 1558-1 in the session room tomorrow -- this is about the restructuring of monetary loans, because you know that Maidan's financial stand, and we have to listen to people, and eventually we have to take a step towards people. This bill will eventually allow people to be supported, because we have to lobby not the banks, but we have to eventually come back to people with faces. And today there is a very important bill on milk. It is I who urge the people’s deputies to look at it and support the villagers. Because this purchase price for milk, it's practically genocide in the village. And we finally have to protect the peasants, support these bills. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u3	Dear fellow MPs, dear friends and members of the Opposition Block, when the speaker speaks, there's nothing to be heard from the huge noise in the hall. I very much ask that we, working in the hall, be able to respect the speaker and each other. Quiet in the hall, please. Miroshnichenko is invited to attend. He's handing over the word to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u4	Good day, fellow citizens of Ukraine! Today, July 1 and quite a significant event has taken place since today. Actually, they have two sign events. First of all, it's the introduction of cashiers for the second group of payers of the single tax based on a valid editorial. And I hope that today the MPs, the Ukrainian national deputies will have the will to vote in favour of Bill 1088. It would have been better, of course, the 1718 bill, which is urged by our faction "The Opposition Block" to abolish the requirement for the implementation of cashiers for payers of the second and third groups. But the coalition reached a compromise solution. We, as the faction of the Opposition Block, will support this compromise decision because it's a better-mentioned compromise than nothing, because the coalition has no courage to vote for Bill 1718. The solution is that cashiers will be introduced to payers of the second group of single taxes, for taxpayers of the third group of individuals who are entrepreneurs with a income of less than one million dollars. Another equally significant event is the effectiveness of the VAT electronic administration system. Unfortunately, there are no positive developments in this room. Bill 2173, 2173a, was not failed at a committee meeting. I want to point out that very many taxpayers will face a very serious problem with the inclusion of the specified formula for completing VAT. Since the marked VAT electronic administration system actually eliminates 20 percent of the circulation, the free circulation of cash in the accounts of the State, these are the accounts of virtual VAT electronic administration systems. The Opposition Block faction insists on continuing the test regime of the VAT electronic administration system for at least six months, because both the technology and the formula itself are imperfect. In fact, the system is imperfect and, in fact, neither tax payers nor controlling authorities are ready to implement this system. Unfortunately, very many and national deputies understand this, both coalition representatives and representatives of the factions of the Opposition Block and non-factional deputies, but under the compulsion of the current government, the State Fiscal Service, have been insisting on the implementation of this system right now. I just want to hope that this system will not cause any damage to taxpayers, since there are many legitimate reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u5	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u6	I hope that we will still make a compromise decision and continue the VAT administration test regime in order not to harm taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u7	John Kirilenko conveys the word of Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u8	Dear Friends of the People’s Deputies! We all remember that power belongs to the people in Ukraine, don't we? I think not everyone is very annoyed that people go to parliament and that we should serve people instead of reacting in such a way that we do not listen to them! Tell me, please, did you hear a woman come out with an icon yesterday, she was no longer talking to you, to authority, she was addressing God and she said, "Lord! Help save the entrepreneurs who are feeding their families today. ” Please tell me, when you were standing on Maidan, did you feel the same way when Yanukovich was pointing black helmets at you? Say, there's only one politician in Heaven, there's one big businessman, or an oligarch? There's the middle business that went out to get you all to power! Why does every authority come and think it is necessary to start to strangle small and medium - size businesses?Oh, my God! Why don't you start with monopolies, why don't you start with corruption, you know that our laws, they don't. The License Act has entered from today: 400 licensing conditions have failed, 400 activities and businesses have suffered as of today! They went out to protect their own families because they feed them, feed the hired ones. Say, did you create at least one job together after you came to power? All you have to do is destroy! And that's why the "Fatherland" faction consistently confirms that it consistently advocates the protection of small and medium-sized businesses is what democracy begins with. Not from oligarchs, not from ministers and prime ministers, but from a simple man who should work and not know your names and their names. Give people the opportunity to work! And you start by putting together a puzzle, what you have to do to make them die. Yesterday it was, "Ah-ah," on the coalition, "let's give a million" -- traffic that doesn't have a cash machine. And you know that in this million trades: 200 thousand Ahmet monopolies for electricity, rent, taxes on wages, taxes on taxes, taxes, wages for employed persons and the cost of goods. Tell me, did you count? You want to continue today an experiment that the world doesn't have except in Azerbaijan, the administration of VAT accounts. You've put 20 percent of the advance on the PDI, what do you have to do to completely kill the economy of Ukraine?Oh, my God! The Fatherland faction invites you: get back, family, get back, because that's not the question that you're going to vote, the question of how you're going to look into the eyes of those people who chose you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u9	Skuratovski gives the floor to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška Oleg Lášk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs, we were deeply impressed by the news we learned on the Day of the Constitution about the award of the Order of Jaroslav the Wise Head of the Central Election Commission, Michael Ohendowski. This is the one that, along with other members of the Central Electoral Commission, ordered by the Yanukovic gang, forged parliamentary elections, forged presidential elections, forged district elections, particularly in the Kyiv region, in the Mikolai region, and in other areas. And today, instead of forging forerunners of the elections known as "dreaks," who today continue to sit on the Central Electoral Commission, to be held accountable, they are rewarded by the Orders of Jaroslav the Wise. We consider it a disgrace, we view it as a violation of the public name, of the reward, we consider it a humiliation of the entire conscious Ukrainian society. Therefore, the Radical Party faction demands that the distinguished President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, cancel his Order for the award of the Order of Jaroslav Wise Michael Prochendowski. In addition, we have registered in Parliament Bill No. 2182, which obliges the President of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council for the appointment of new members of the Central Electoral Commission. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that since June 2014, the term of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission has coincided. To date, the new members of the Central Electoral Commission have not been elected but have continued to act on the old. On what basis do they work? The eighth year has gone by, the ninth, how they have unlawfully exercised the mandate of the members of the CLTC and these illegal members of the CLTC, whose term of office has ended, will today falsify the 205 district elections in Chernigov. The Constitution obliges the President to submit to the new members of the CLTC when the powers of the elderly have ended. That is why I am requesting the President of Ukraine, Dustenk, to comply with the constitutional requirement and to submit to the Supreme Council for the election of the new members of the Central Electoral Commission. I also point out to society that today, in the Constitutional Court, they continue to work, to administer justice to six members of the Constitutional Court who, at Yanukovich's request in 2010, raped the Constitution of Ukraine. He continues to work as Human Rights Commissioner, Lutkowski, who was assigned to Janukovich in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u11	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u12	In an illegal way, Lutkowski was dragged here to the oath. I'm talking to the coalition: let's let all of those whom Yanukovic has appointed, who helped him build a dictatorship, finally get rid of these positions that they're holding illegally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u14	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Parliament is currently considering a number of fundamental laws and fundamental decisions that will create a new system of relations in the country, in fact, a new system of government. First of all, I am talking about the changes to the Constitution that are being considered on the basis of decentralization and those laws. which are also considered on this subject. What's so important right now? To ensure that decentralization does not result in further centralization, centralization and centre, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Office of the President of Ukraine. It is very important that these laws and the pressure exerted in the territory of community reunification do not eventually lead to the closure of schools, hospitals and kindergartens. In rural areas, this is most relevant when several rural councils are violently trying to unite. Everyone understands that this is done to reduce costs, close schools, close kindergartens, close hospitals, thus saving, reduce budget costs, which is absolutely unacceptable. On the contrary, schools must be opened. The village lives when there's a school, there's a doctor, there's a teacher, there's a kindergarten, there's a FAB, there's no such thing. Both the Council of Europe and PACE have spoken to Ukraine very often over the past 10 years and especially now, say the Ukrainian authorities that the best European experience is the holding of local referendums. When the community itself decides how to make decisions. Unfortunately, there is no law on local referendums in Ukraine, but only last year, for example, more than 300 laws were passed in Switzerland. So it's still very relevant, because decisions are being made in the Constitution, the adoption of the Ukrainian Local Referendum Act, so that people can make their own decisions. So we have been drafted and submitted to Parliament by the Ukrainian Local Referendum Act, which provides for exactly 80 pages, which clearly sets out two rules: a consultative referendum and a peremptory one. Only in peremptory referendums, and their decision is mandatory, can decisions be made to close hospitals, close gardens and close schools. Without asking people, this cannot be done in any way as is done today. Second. Advisory referendum. Here I speak from 80 per cent of the inhabitants of the city of Dnepropetrovska, as well as from the inhabitants of Dneprogerginska and Kirovograda, of whom. cities whose names are forced to be changed. Let us adopt this law, put it on the agenda and in the local elections, together with the local elections in the autumn.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u15	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u16	Let the people of the city decide what their cities should be called. This momentum is now timeless, leading to enormous budget costs and the enormous cost of people in the pockets of everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u17	Oleg Osuhovsky gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u18	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yesterday was an important, historic date. Unfortunately, this was not mentioned at the Parliamentary meeting. We didn't have the opportunity yesterday, I mean, the freebies, that's from the rostrum. That's why I'm going to say it today. Yesterday was June 30. It was on June 30, 1941, that the Act of Restoration of the Ukrainian State was proclaimed in Lviv. And this has become one of the stages of really fighting for an independent Ukrainian state. After that, German occupations put in concentration camps virtually all the leaders of the Ukrainian National Liberation Movement who proclaimed the Act. But the struggle for an independent Ukraine continued. Today we're washing an independent state. And our job is to make it independent not only by form, but also by substance. To be Ukrainian and socially fair. But, reverential society, is that so today? Even after the Dignity Revolution, are the requirements of this Dignity Revolution fulfilled today? Are those reforms that were necessary for our nation and that remain necessary today, not at the level of pyar and but in reality, but at the level of buttocks? Obviously not. And this is very well illustrated by even such obvious and important decisions that should be very easy to pass through the Ukrainian Parliament. For example, as the Law on Local Elections. We know that we voted last plenary week in the first reading for the appropriate Local Elections Act. Tomorrow we will have to vote in the second reading and in general. Sadly, though, there is a huge problem with respectable friends. The shadow processes in Parliament are taking place. And today a great deal of force is being exerted to break this law so that it will not be adopted. To conduct local elections under the old law. This is unacceptable! We've already held parliamentary elections in the run-up to the old electoral system. And by the way, they haven't changed it yet. And as a result, we have huge problems in today's parliament. Similarly, if we run the old law local elections, we will get chronic diseases at the level of local councils. This is absolutely unacceptable! And we have to really understand that this is not just a question of democracy, it's not just a question of reform. It's a matter of national security. Because it's in the October 15th election that the anti-Ukrainian Kremlin forces will be trying to rematch a number of areas. And if there's going to be an old system election, if we don't make more serious liability for counterfeiting, if we don't prohibit paid political advertising before the elections, we can get a real rematch of anti-Ukrainian forces. We shouldn't let that happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u19	Lapin Igor gives the word to Mikola Knezhicki, "The People's Front." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u20	Dear friends, I don't know if you notice how slowly after Maidan, corruption eats up each of us. Each and every one of you, me. I don't know if you notice what's happening in our country right now. Literally yesterday, the German Embassy awarded the Schewchenk Award to German artists who were involved in the opera production at the Donets opera house of the Wagner Opera. The theater is now destroyed. His principal died after a difficult experience. The artistic director of this theater, the former, was at this service, he's in Kiev right now. But we don't think this theater is destroyed, we didn't offer these talented actors who did the best plays, move to Kiev, Lviv, or Odessa. This is a claim to each and every one of you and to me. We've forgotten about these people. Instead, we all dress up and go to Lviv to show how rich we are at the festival hosted by the Russian Alpha, which is founded by a man who is second to riches in the Russian Federation. Yesterday in this room, we stand up, honoring Shuhevich, and on the same day, we issue a license for the Inter channel, which is based on structures that are close to the Russian structures, with unknown owners, contrary to the laws, and the sales courts go on about the lionesses and the companies, and they don't look at these issues as it should be by law. We're pretending that we couldn't catch the Clovis who's hiding, but we're forgetting that in this room is Ljowczyn and Bakulin, who stole Boyko's surpluses, who broke up our country and continue to run this country, and each one of us, and I think our President. Peter Alexiyovich, please release there in Lipeck, candy in a blue-yellow cover with the inscription "Glory to Ukraine!".. Maybe even then they're closing down these factories, and we'll stop lying to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Boyko gives the word Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u22	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. In principle, after the previous speech, I changed the subject of my speech and I want to go back to the subject of corruption. You know, I have a strong belief that it will be very difficult for us to fight corruption for one reason, when the first officials of the state are involved in corruption, people are very skeptical about it. I'm suggesting to everyone that the personal charges against some people on charges of corruption from the past, from our past, do you know why? Because today, corruption consumes power. I call on the MPs to change their rhetoric, because your summit, your iceberg today, is your voice, the Head of the Supreme Council. And when we talk about corruption, starting with the Head of the Supreme Council, we need to fight this corruption. What do you say, if they're trying to take down the minister of ecology today, I'm not protecting him, he's a stranger to me, he's being incriminated on private planes. And please tell me, what is the difference between an environmental minister's flight on a private plane and the head of the Supreme Council's flight on a charter? We're saying that we don't have the money, that we don't have the budget. When they first flew to Brussels, well, I think there might have been something going on with a group of deputies. Now the Venice Commission is back on charter, from Odessa back on charter. If it is some private money, it is corruption, for it will have to be done later. The issue of this corruption has its beginning because this Supreme Council does not live by the Parliamentary Bible, which is the Law on the Rules. Today, the Law of the Rules is constantly being violated. Please tell me, what state will respect Ukrainian officials if this law is voted 20 times? Please tell us how our foreign partners can implement the Law on the Order of Access and Conditions of Circumstances of the Armed Forces of Other States in Ukraine. Here in the session room, the chairman placed a procedure, a reduced procedure. She didn't vote. The bill began to be considered. He's being accepted with a grave violation of the Ukrainian Rules Act. From this rostrum, I appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council. They're signing to the President. I imagine the heads of foreign nations who will contribute to the deployment here of the Armed Forces of their States in accordance with the law that has been passed with violation. The procedure for today’s adoption of draft laws does not withstand any criticism. We're talking about political repression. Today there is parliamentary political repression. Because there was no law of opposition adopted in this room once. And for today, the way the word is given to the discussion of opposition is pure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u23	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u24	This is a pure destruction of parliamentary pluralism. We will not abide by Ukraine's Rules Act, there will be no order in that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u25	Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, Mikhailo Papiev, Opposition Block. And as I continue to think of the previous speaker, and in order to slightly reduce that degree in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to be able to talk consciously, completely peacefully about the effectiveness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us examine, then, the laws that we consider daily. That's actually 70 percent, and we figured, these are the laws that change the laws that were passed on December 28th at night. See, yesterday we had before us the Law of Ukraine, which amends article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code regarding the removal from the law of such a shameful phenomenon as the taxation of pensions. Dear colleagues, yesterday in the debate, we had a law concerning participants in the fighting of World War II, although there is no such status in the law, but nevertheless, we cannot now go on half-way, passing one law that was being considered regarding the election of local self-government authorities, then the participants in the fighting. We actually need to take, acquire that consciousness, that humanity, and exclude in general 164 articles from the Tax Code, which in the only country in the world taxes pensions 15 percent of the tax. Next question. Dear colleagues, today we have July 1st. Power must be responsible. Let us recall the promise made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine that by July 1st the government will conduct an index of salaries and pensions. Today, July 1, where is the indexation, at least at the level of inflation? We're going to have a government day on Friday, so we're going to have a proposal from the Opposition Block, and I'm going to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine himself. Not the Deputy Prime Minister, not the Ministers, but the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who, looking into the eyes of the Ukrainian people, would explain why he failed to keep his promise and the rule of law regarding the indexing of citizens' monetary incomes. And I'm going to remind you that last year's inflation is 27, and this year it's over 40 percent. So to index pensions and wages have no less than 84 percent. Today, according to the prime minister of Ukraine, there is a redefinition of the income portion of the budget. So there are no, let's say, safety nets or barriers to pension indexation. I very much ask the representatives of all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to unite to restore justice to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u27	Thank you. The walker passes the word to the deputy Shipko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u28	Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Party, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district. Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! I want to raise a question that concerns everyone — health and life. It has been a month and a half since the Parliament’s decree on the release of the Ukrainian Minister of Health. And how many more times do people's deputies have to come out to this rostrum, and how many more new facts of the minister's inactivity do we have to bring to everyone's understanding that the ministry doesn't work, and the minister doesn't have at all. The entire health - care system is down, there is no program to compensate for the cost of drugs, there is a complete failure of the heavy - health insurance system that requires daily treatment, and there is simply no way for people to buy medicines in pharmacies. Today, it is not clear who is in charge of the ministry and who is really responsible for such a situation. Mr. Minister, you've reported great achievements in six months of work, but it's probably some kind of cosmic achievement, and we don't know them, the Ukrainians don't feel them, people are standing under the walls of the Cabinet again today, and they're demanding that they be able to heal and live. You better get into the pharmacy and try to find one elderly person, and if you find one, ask her if she can buy a package of drugs. No, they're being cut on a pill! You can ask these people what kind of medicine we need. And the ministry says that the first package of health reform bills has been prepared, and the minister adds that it is necessary for the MPs to vote on it. Well, it's funny that this package isn't registered at all in the Supreme Council and that these are mythical laws that we haven't seen at all. Let's move on. The Ministry says that negotiations have been held with international organisations on the possibility of purchasing through state programmes in 2015. And what has this provided for the health of ordinary Ukrainians? The purchase of life - sustaining drugs did not even begin, and international organizations in general will not be able to carry them out this year, and everyone knows it. Doesn't the Ministry know if it's misleading people in particular? Honorable national MPs, dear voters, can go on long - term inaction with the minister of health. But what I'm saying is, no more presentations, no more declarations, no more talk, how long are we going to be watching the destruction of our state's health system? Such a minister is a disaster for our people, it's just some kind of abuse of people and so on. I'm calling on the Supreme Council's leadership. The Rebirth Party immediately requires that the Minister's release Order 2864 be included in the agenda and reviewed. The Rebirth Party for a real recovery of medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u29	Thank you. The time for the talk is over. I would like to comment on this part of our work and to point out to all the deputies that, according to the Rules, the MP who signed up can convey the word, but obviously if he is present in the Hall. You say there's a deputy Boyko present in the hall? There is no representative of Boyka in the Hall, as if he were passing the word to another MP, and then this deputy is coming out, and he tells us how the Supreme Council is supposed to follow the Rules. That is the essence of double standards, and wickedness. I would like to emphasize to the Opposition Block that will no longer be the case when you come to the leading bureau, asking for a word from a member who is not there to teach us how to act under the Rules. Work according to the law and by the law alone, and do not do comedy in the hall. We've already seen how you worked and you're working today. And I would like to point out that only a member of Parliament who is still present can pass the word to another member for his speech. Now, dear fellows, we are moving on to the issues of order of the day. We have a number of ratifications in our agenda, including the ratification of NATO treaties, this is one of the most important directions, perhaps the most important, of foreign policy at a time when Ukraine is fighting Russian aggression, approaching NATO standards and joining NATO remains our main goal, and not only as a protection system, but also as a security system, as well as a system of a civilized world, a world without corruption, a world without banditry. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall so that we can start looking at these issues. The first issue of the agenda is the consideration of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context (number 0032). And there's a request to consider this project with a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:41:12]] For 148 Two more people haven't made it. The potential is high, and so I'm going to re-vote the issue of consideration of the reduced procedure. Let's focus, please. And I would like to re-vote the issue through a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[10:41:47]] For 168 Thank you for your constructive position. And the report invites Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Kurikin Sergey Ivanovich. Please report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u30	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Ratification of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context, has been developed to implement the national programme on adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Environmental Policy for the period to 2020, and the National Environmental Action Plan for Ukraine for the period 2011-2015, and the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. A strategic environmental assessment determines the assessment of the likely environmental consequences, particularly those related to public health. Strategic environmental assessment is an important tool for implementing environmental policy in our country. A strategic environmental assessment is being carried out with regard to plans and programmes designed for agriculture, forestry, fishing, energy, industry, and other areas of activity that, according to national legislation, require environmental impact assessments. A very important feature of the strategic environmental assessment is that it takes place before the decision is made on the implementation of projects or programs. In doing so, I want to point out that the practical mechanism for applying the strategic environmental assessment should be reflected in the law, which is designed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The Ministry of Ecology, Natural Resources is now transferred to other central executive authorities. Finally, I would like to point out that the strategic and environmental assessment protocol was drafted and opened for signature right here in Kiev back in 2003, but today Ukraine remains the only country that has not yet ratified this protocol. I very much hope that this situation will be rectified in this room today, so please support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u31	The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanna Hopko, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u32	Good morning, dear fellows! The committee supported the decision yesterday to vote in favour of this bill, so in order to save time, I propose that you all support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is it true? Yeah? Well, if there's two for it, two against it. Please log in. Hotcharyenko Alexei, Petra Dustenka's Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u34	I give you my word, Mr. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, with all the simplicity of this document, I want to draw your attention to what is a completely different strategy of how the government is now working and we are working. What does that mean? Today, I want to tell you that we cancelled today. The government canceled all the tests -- the fires, and so on. So far, I'm not lobbying any government or state institutions here. Today, if a chemical enterprise throws a disaster into the year day and night, it is necessary to go in and check and open the door and get a court permit. And in order to judge such production, it is necessary to pay the court, and there is no money in this institution for the court. So this document that we're adopting today, and our committee is supporting it in every way, provides for a more complex formula that we have removed. So in front of a whole range, about 80 kinds of jobs are being done together with the public, strategically and ecologically, whether there is a threat to the environment. Only then will they allow the work to begin. When we get to the adoption of the law, there's obviously a question of how we can act, what is the authority of the central executive authorities. But once again, I'm interested, and I'm asking everyone to understand what we're doing. Because if after the adoption, the ratification of this law, we're not going to adopt a law that clearly describes the procedure for strategic environmental assessment, this ratification doesn't give us anything. So I hope the session room understands the significance of this document. And we will move away from the anarchy that prevails in Ukraine today. Today we have a fire in a day. And they say, well, you don't have to check it, let it burn, we'll shut it down. Today we have monsters of industry, especially in eastern Ukraine, go, see what now, businesses are doing in terms of ecology. No one controls it! That's why we're in. As a committee, we support this document and expect the government to give us an appropriate law on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u36	Hungarian Paul. From where or from the rostrum, Mr. Paul? Out of the way. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Undoubtedly, this ratification must be supported. And that is what we need in our European integration processes and in our international commitments. But the question is that it's about ratifying the Protocol to the sad Espoo Convention. Why is she sad? Because it was at this convention that Ukraine repeatedly issued either warnings or the work of a convention director was carried out when warnings were given to Ukraine. This relates to one of the most strategic issues: this is the question of deep-sea navigation through the throat of the Bistra, which connects the Danube River and the Black Sea. And it was through the Espoo Conventions that they tried to deprive Ukraine of the possibility of fully exploiting its deep - water navigation. The problem was the desire of some of our neighbors to block shipping in our Danube area and shipping in the Danube, all the way to the center of Europe. The problem was that the neighbors, in their own interests, did so on the basis of the interests of Ukraine, using the Espoo Convention itself. And unfortunately, over the last 7-8 years, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Environmental Protection (which has been called in different names), has often taken a very weak position. I therefore call today to support the ratification of this Protocol. But I also urge the presence of the distinguished Sergio Ivanovich and colleagues from the Ministry to work to defend Ukraine’s interests in Transdunavaya.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Then I ask all the deputies to enter the hall, those in the towers, to come to the workplaces, to get as close as possible to their cards so that we can vote productively and effectively. Dear colleagues, we come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context (number 0032). The committee's proposal to accept it as a whole. Please support and vote in general. Please vote. [[10:51:04]] For 279 The Protocol Ratification Act has been adopted. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Support between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on Support for Supply (number 0034). And there's also a proposal for this bill to be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:51:52]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Secretary of Defense Long Igor Aleksiowiovich is invited to the report. The microphone is on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u39	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, in accordance with the requirements of part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Support between the Cabinet of Ministers and the NATO Organization for Support and Supply, which took place on 27 April this year in Brussels, is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To carry out this internal procedure, the Ministry of Defence has developed a draft Ukrainian Treaty Ratification Act. The need for ratification of the agreement is due to the fact that, according to its provisions, Articles 9 and 10 of taxation, customs payments and staff privileges of the aforementioned NATO organization are carried out under different rules than those laid down in Ukraine's legislation. This is by exempting from taxation and customs duties and granting NATO staff privileges to support supply. The draft law does not require additional expenditure from the state budget. Please support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u40	Thank you, Igor Alexiyovich. Please report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u41	The President-in-Office of the Ministers of Ukraine discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Support between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization for Support and Supply. The purpose of this bill is to create the legal basis for the implementation by the Ukrainian side of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the stated agreement. This will contribute to the development of cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Support and Supply Organization, and will identify its basic principles for supporting Ukraine in specific directions, including supply, technical services, goods and services, transport, configuration management and technical assistance, implementation of NATO trust fund projects as a executing agent, which is NATO support and supply agency. The purpose of the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the NATO Support and Supply Organization is to create the legal basis for the implementation of internal procedures by the Ukrainian side. I would also like to thank the head of the Ukrainian delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze. Also our other national deputies, members of the delegation, such as Alexia Screepnik, Andrew Levus, Victor Chumak, for their active participation in the development of these documents at the time of the signing by the government, as well as John Klimpus himself, for having the opportunity to ratify this document today. The committee has supported and I ask you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, please, is there a need to discuss? You don't? Please prepare for the vote. It's a show. Dear colleagues, 0034, please vote on the Order. More specifically, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization for Support and Supply to the UNPT. Dear colleagues, we vote in general. Please vote. [[10:56:43]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next Order. Draft Law (Registration No. 0035). Draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on Communications and Information submitted by the General Manager of the NATO Agency for Communications and Information on Cooperation on Consultations, Management, Communications, Intelligence, Observation and Recognition under the NATO Partnership for Peace programme (Registration No. 0035). Reported to Igor Dolgov, Deputy Secretary of Defense. There is a suggestion that the rapporteur should consider the draft Law in a simplified manner. Be my guest, dear fellows. [[10:57:43]] For 175 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u43	Long Igor Alexiyovich from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u44	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on Communications and Information presented by the NATO General Manager for Communications and Information on Cooperation on Management, Liaison, Intelligence, Observation and Recognition in the framework of the NATO Partnership for Peace programme, which was launched on 24 April this year in Brussels and is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with section E of section E of the second article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. In order to carry out this internal procedure, the Ministry of Defence has developed a draft Ukrainian Law on its ratification. The adoption of the draft act will create legal grounds for the implementation by the Ukrainian side of the internal procedures necessary for the selection of the memorandum of validity, which in turn will create a legal basis for cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Cooperation Organization set out above under the NATO Partnership for Peace programme. All of this is done with the aim of implementing the NATO Trust Fund to improve the communications and automation system of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Implementation of the project does not require spending on the budget. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u45	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanna Hopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u46	Good day again, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization on Communications and Information submitted by the General Manager of the NATO Agency for Communications and Information on Cooperation in Consultations, Management, Communications, Intelligence, Observation and Recognition in the framework of the NATO Mine Partnership Programme. The purpose of this bill is to create the legal basis for the implementation by the Ukrainian side of the internal state procedures necessary for a memorandum of understanding. This will enable cooperation between the Ukrainian government and the NATO Organization and communication and information to be developed, as well as determine the basic principles of cooperation in matters of consultation, management, communication, intelligence. I also wanted to thank the people's deputies, the members of the delegation of Ukraine to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the head of the delegation Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze, Alexia Scripnik, Andry Levus, and also Victor Chumak, many of our colleagues who are making such effective use of representation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and are promoting Ukraine's interests, although this is not easy. And today's ratification of these important documents is another step for us, an opportunity to get protection at this difficult time. So thank you, I encourage all other colleagues, in other OSCE delegations, Paris, others to actively use their presence to advance the interests of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Just one. Let me give one word to the vote. Please, Oleg Medunica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we are now taking two decisions concerning Ukraine's cooperation with NATO. See how the factions that came out of the Party of the Regions vote, their disadvantages, almost all of them, or abstain from voting. This is a show vote. Who in this Parliament thinks Ukrainian national interests? I'm not going to advocate here for these laws, but we all understand that cooperation with such an organization is the most important factor in our survival as a nation. And those politicians who do not support this decision act against the interests of the Ukrainian nation and work for the Russian aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u49	Thank you. So, are your esteemed colleagues ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote, please come into the hall of all the deputies who have accidentally entered the towers and stayed there. Please take up your jobs. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the NATO Organization for Communications and Information, presented by the General Manager of the NATO Agency for Communications and Information, on cooperation in consultations, management, communication, intelligence, monitoring under the NATO Partnership for Peace programme (No. 0035). Please accept this bill as a whole. Please vote. Please vote, support. [[11:03:37]] For 267 The draft Ratification Act was adopted. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (number 0033). And there's also a proposal for us to consider this bill in a simplified way. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:04:34]] For-183 Decision taken. And the report invites the deputy head of the Security Service, Mr. Frolov Oleg Volodymyrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access. The specified international agreement signed in Bucharest on October 22, 2013, aimed at creating a legal framework for mutual protection of information with limited access, which will be exchanged between the two states in the course of cooperation. The need for this agreement to be valid, especially in view of the priorities set out in the National Security Strategy of Ukraine approved by Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 26 May 2015 (287). Strengthening the defence of industrial and military technical cooperation, particularly with NATO and EU member states, and promoting rapid and effective communication of information with these countries, based on mutual trust in the reform and development of intelligence, counter-investigative and law enforcement bodies. This international treaty creates legal principles for the exchange of information with limited access to Romania on a bilateral basis. In view of the conclusions of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, these international agreements, in accordance with articles 2 and 32 of the Ukrainian State Secret Act, and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, take effect, are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In connection with this Ukrainian Security Service, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access has been prepared and has been ordered by the Cabinet of Ministers to submit it. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. In view of the above, please support the draft bill, which will allow for the completion of the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the specified international treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u51	Thank you. The report invites the Secretary of the European Integration Committee, Captain Olena Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Hello! The European Integration Committee, at its meeting, reviewed the relevant project on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania, on mutual protection of information with limited access introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and praised the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be accepted as a whole. I want to point out that in making such a decision, the committee first came out of what it was to make such a decision. The adoption of such a decision is necessary for the completion of the ratification, and the bill is fully in line with existing legislation. The agreement provides an equal, virtually partnership in the communication process, the main protection of this information. I would like to point out that at this point, when the issue of security, including information security, is most relevant to Ukraine. Ratification is very relevant and necessary. So, colleagues, given the positive conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the positive conclusion of our committee, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, let's consult. Is there a need to discuss the bill? Wise. None. So I'm voting on this bill. I ask all fellow deputies to enter the hall of employment. A vote is about to take place. And I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access No. 0033. Please support this bill as a whole. Please vote, we support as a whole. Please. [[11:09:04]] For 282 The draft law on ratification has been adopted. And let's move on to the next law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another issue of ratification. It's 0034, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. So I immediately put it on the table. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Support and Supply Organization. Excuse me, this is 0036. I'm sorry. Yes. Because they put me in the papers. 36, yes. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the Order of the Crossing of the Ukrainian-Belarus State Border by the Peoples of the Rokitnów Region of the Plains Region of Ukraine and the Stalin region of the Republic of Belarus (0036). And there's also an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please support, please vote. Vote. It's a short-term procedure. [[11:10:43]] For 180. Decision taken. And I'm inviting the first deputy head of the State Border Service, Cervatjuk Vasil Mikolaiovich. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! On 23 January 2013, the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Order of Crossing of the Ukrainian-Belarus State Border was signed in the city of Gomel. The agreement defines the features of the crossing of the Ukrainian-Belarus state border at the local crossing points by Ukrainian citizens, which are registered in the population areas of the Rokitni district of Rovinj: Obsic, Dubno, Poznan, Glinne, Hopil, Burrezov, Oblivion, Grabun, Drozdin and Old Village are aimed at gathering wildlings, blackberries, cranes and mushrooms in the territory of the Republic of Belarus, adjacent to the state border of Ukraine. Residents of the sites will be able to cross the state border from 15 June to 15 November at the local crossing points. The crossing of the state border will be possible from 6.00 to 22 in a pedestrian order or on bicycles on condition that the same age is returned to Ukraine. According to article 10 of the covenant, it takes effect on the date of receipt of the last written message. With the aim of ratifying the agreement, a bill was drafted by the State Service Administration. The bill was in agreement with all the central authorities concerned. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u55	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The committee discussed the draft law yesterday at its meeting and unanimously decided to support it. I also want to say that it is very important for us today to build up our friendship with the neighbouring state of Belarus and to try to contribute in every way to improving our partnership, particularly on these weekends, that I have met with the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security of the Republic of Belarus and we have spoken about moments of increased cooperation in the economic aspect. July 3rd will be the day of independence of the Republic of Belarus, and I think it's important for Ukraine to build its partnerships in every way to make our nations strong, independent and never to succeed in building its failed Russian peace project. And that's why today's ratification of this bill will also help to improve the transition of the people of the two districts in the Plain region and also on the side of Belarus. So I ask you to support and also understand how important it is in the Eastern Partnership, in particular to build up those contacts that can in the future strengthen our state as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to make a statement on this matter? Is that right? So I'm asking you to sign two for two, two for no. Please. Corchik Vitaly Andryovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, this is certainly the right thing to do when we simplify the transition to people living in a foreign territory. So the People's Front faction will support this decision, and it urges everyone to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u59	Alexei Muschak of Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u60	Request to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u61	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u62	We support this document. We believe that this ratification is beneficial and very important to establish a normal, predictable neighbourly relationship with our neighbors. And instead, I wanted the chairman to point out that we're here, and I mean the teaching and teaching part of the Parliamentary Hall is concerned that the third month we're not going to get into a long-term bill to lift the land tax of educational institutions, health care, culture, reserves. So please, if tomorrow I count twelve times from Thursday we're not going to get to this bill, well, we're not going to be able to show students an example. Well, I think all former teachers or teachers or cultural workers will have to block the rostrum. Because as a result of the first quarter and half of the year, we have some of the heights and reserves and parks that will stop their activities because there's nothing to pay for this inadequate land tax. It's 1850-1. We ask tomorrow to put it in the completely available part so we can vote and forget as a stupid dream this tax offered by Minfin for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u63	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will support this law. And I'm talking to the chairman. Mr. Chairman, ratification laws are very important documents, so it is very important to follow the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Look, please, this bill is not in the order of the day 0036. And look at the chronology. You asked about the shorter procedure, but you didn't really ask about putting it in the agenda. Therefore, I would like to ask that, in order to comply with the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I should like to put this bill into the agenda of the day. And after that, we're going to vote on this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u65	Thank you for your concern and attention to the Rules, but I would like to inform you that the issue of ratification is not included in the agenda. They're not on. Read the Rules carefully, and then make a warning. And now I give the floor to the Radical Party of Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u66	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will, of course, support the ratification of this agreement, but at the same time there are many questions for our border guards. I wonder how many foreign spies were caught crossing the border during the Ukrainian-Russian war? How many diversans are detained on the border? Or we have constant reports that the Security Service is detaining the divers and spies in Kiev, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and nothing is happening on the border of language. On the other hand, recently a volunteer came to the country from Icceria, a relative of the famous Amina Okwawai, who was a military instructor and was deported, although he was threatened by a death penalty in the Russian Federation because he advocated the independence of the Chechen people. And as many national deputies as did not send letters, the person was deported, deported to the Kremlin’s persecution agreement. Instead, it is totally inconceivable that there are no spies, no Russian divers who cross the Ukrainian border all the time. The faction encourages a colleague to support the issue of ratification and at the same time draws the attention of the foreign service to the need to pay attention to the fact that war is going on in the country rather than just going for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u67	10 seconds, please let me finish. Thank you. So we're done here, we can go to the vote, hopefully. Yeah? So I'm asking my respectable colleagues to take up jobs, go into the hall that's located in the towers, get ready to vote. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the Order of the Crossing of the Ukrainian-Belarus State Border (number 0036) as a whole. Please vote, please support, vote, please in general. [[11:22:04]] For 282 The draft Ratification Act was adopted. We have great performance today, and this is important, because each of these ratifications is very important in the international context of work not only to Parliament but also to the Ukrainian State. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are now awaiting a committee decision of 1088, and as soon as the committee's decision comes, it will be handed out in the hall, and we will now proceed to its consideration. We're just technically waiting for the committee to consider this. We now have the laws of National Security and Defence in our daily lives - 2551, and 2531 is the second reading. Who can report on them? I'm addressing the Security and Defence Committee, who can report on those bills? So let's go to the draft Act amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, 2531. And Irina Fries is invited to the report. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u68	Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u69	Yes, second reading. I said second reading. Please, Mrs. Irina, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence discussed on 3 June 2015 the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Law on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (registration number 2531), the second reading submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project is aimed at enhancing the monitoring of information flows, including from areas of anti-terrorist operation, the resistance to technical intelligence, the provision of an adequate level of protection of information that circulates in networks of communications systems of power structures and law enforcement authorities of the State by arranging the use of mobile phones and other means of mobile communication and the transfer of information of military personnel in peacetime in areas of anti-terrorist operation, as well as in states of emergency or during a special period in areas where hostilities are taking place. To this end, it is proposed to amend article 143 of the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The project provides that the order of storage and use of personal cameras, tape recorders, radio receivers, mobile phones, and other mobile devices for the transmission of information, computer and other household electronic equipment for military personnel carrying out military service duties is established by the military commander. In preparation for the second reading, 10 proposals were received from law - abiding entities, of which three are fully counted, one is edited, one is partially rejected. The main legal administration is a project that is being implemented without notice. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u71	Thank you. You stay in the rostrum, please, this is the second reading. Dear colleagues, a number of amendments have been made to the draft law. Some of them were counted by the committee, but some were not included. And according to the Rules, we have in every one of those that was unaccounted for, to go through, or to insist on, the authors of those amendments. So 3 amendments, author of Constantinowski. Does he insist on voting? No, it's not. 5th Amendment, Deputy Laszko. Declined. Does he insist on voting? Lashko and Korchinska are authors, and they insist. Please turn on Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u72	Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. I'm now addressing all of our Supreme Council's troops. In general, the law is correct because it still prohibits mobile connections and radio means of reasoning from commanders. That is why we hope for the wisdom of the commanders. But our amendment to Oleg Valeriovich relates to the fact that we ask for exemption for medics and medical units because our medical units and medical units are completely unsecured by special forces. I was meeting in four sectors with all kinds of battalions, brigades. We ask that our amendment be supported now, so that we may still have contact with our hospitals, our civilian hospitals, where military doctors and our medical personnel are working on the collision line. This amendment applies only to honeycombs and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u73	Done? Yeah? Is There More Time for You? We're done, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u74	I just want to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u75	Mrs. Irina, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u76	I would just like to inform my colleague that the Law (2154), which also regulates the use of mobile phones in a war zone or an anti-terrorist operation, fully takes into account the rights of Oleg Ljaška and Mrs. Korczynski and she agrees with the chief surgeon of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Homenko Igor Petrovic. And it directly allows medical personnel in military units and departments to use mobile phones in the area of antiterrorist operations. So now I ask you to take this matter into account and wait for the bill (2154) where this amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u77	Thank you. But if the amendment insists, we are forced to put to the vote, and so I ask that you prepare your honourable colleagues for the vote. There is an amendment to the 5 national deputies Lasko and Korczynska. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote on who supports this amendment. [[11:29:44]] For 203 We can't believe we didn't make it. That's why I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall again. Step out of the towers to your workplace. And if there are votes, I'm going to put them back, and we're going to vote on that amendment. But there's a request for faction heads to mobilize a special faction composition, and I'm going to put it back to the vote for amendment number five. Is there room ready? So I'm betting. I'm betting on the vote return to Amendment 5 Light and Corchinski. Who is in favour of returning the amendment to the vote, please vote. Please vote. [[11:30:59]] For 235 Thank you. So let's put it to a vote. Who supports Amendment 5 Laška, Korczynska, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:31:30.]] For the 220. There's no necessary number of votes in the room. And so, dear fellows, let me put it back again. If there are no votes this time, society, we'll stop at that. Once again, I ask the question of going back to the review of Amendment 5 of Laška, Korczynska. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[11:32:10]] For 219 Dear colleagues, there are no required number of votes. Let's move on to the next number seven. Number 7, National Deputy Friz. Does it insist on the right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u78	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u79	Don't insist. Number 8, the law of the Levchenka People's Deputy. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u80	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The honourable session room, after the adoption of this bill in the first reading to MPs from Freedom, was a mass of appeals from real soldiers, from boys who are either at war now, or who have recently been demobilized, their relatives, known volunteers, that this law would make it impossible in the vast majority of the military forces in general to have any connection with the closeness of our brave soldiers. The fact is that most parts are not equipped with a special connection. This special relationship, in fact, is not there. and accordingly, if this law is adopted in that way, people will not be able to contact their wife, their children, their mother, perhaps before they even put their head behind our Fatherland. So our amendment is that in parts where there is no special obligation to oblige commanders at least five minutes a day at the request of our soldiers to give them the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u81	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u82	I now urge the session room to vote in favour of this amendment so that you do not simply shut down the only link between our defenders and their families in the back. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u84	You know, when military personnel are in a war zone, regulation, use of mobile phones is given to a military commander, and that's true, because self-use of mobile phones can lead to the loss of the lives of military personnel. Therefore, I would like to consider similar rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u85	Thank you. But the national MP, Levchenko, insists on voting. Therefore, honourable colleagues who support the amendment of the 8th People’s Deputy Levchenk, please vote. Please vote and vote on who will support this amendment. Please vote. [[11:34:58]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. The next 9 decrees of the People’s Deputies Laska and Korchinsky insist. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Corchinsky. Turn on the microphone for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I insist once again that this is about the wounded, about the front and about our services. Now you're paralyzing the wounded with your hands, our hospitals. I'm addressing Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Julia Volodymyrna, now you've given us no correction to the wounded on the front. We're asking you to support us. I'm asking the Hall to support the wounded, the wounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u87	Thank you. So now, after the discussion, Mrs. Irina will comment first. Please, Mrs. Irina. Then I'll give you my word. Let Mrs. Irina comment on the amendment. Mrs. Irina, is there a need to comment? Mrs. Irina, is there a need to comment? Will you comment on this amendment number 9?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, once again I ask your attention on the following. The bill, which relates to this, No. 2154, clearly states Appendix 20, which is included in the statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, gives permission to use mobile phones in the area of combat and counterterrorism operations for military and military medical personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Since the name of the national deputy was used in the presentation, I give the floor to Ulya Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u90	Give the sobola.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u91	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko is handing over Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u92	"Paternity." Once again, when this bill was considered in the first reading, it was ours that were the amendments to the speeches in order to allow for the use of medical devices. Right after the committee made the amendments, which everyone fully agreed on, we supported the committee's position. And so a part of our people voted, and including me, for the Lakota amendment, everyone else supported the committee's amendments. That's why we're voting in an editorial that's been on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u93	Thank you. Was the last name mentioned?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u94	Not mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u95	Was the last name mentioned? Baby, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm addressing all my fellow national MPs, including the reverend faction of Fatherland. The amendments we offer provide an opportunity for doctors to use mobile phones. The use of mobile phones is the timely removal of wounded from the front and from the front. If he is not taken out on time because he has no connection, he may die. For these amendments, respected colleagues from the Fatherland faction did not vote on just 3 people from the faction. So I suggest we go back to this amendment. And I address the distinguished Mrs. Timoshenko. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, let your faction's command vote for the amendments that will save the wounded. Today you refuse to vote by risking the lives of the wounded because you do not like Easy. I don't like Easy, it's a secondary question. Let's help the wounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'll tell you what's going on. We are considering a bill that everyone believes and agrees on. If we take a word for a minute as a ping-pong and mention each other, it only leads to one thing: the collapse of the bill. So I ask that we move away from interparty debates and move on to state affairs as state men. Dear colleagues, there is now a second reading. Rules do not provide for discussion. There are only amendment authors who take the word that may be spoken and then vote or not. This isn't the first reading: we don't have statements from factions, we don't have speeches from deputies, we only have speeches from amendment authors. And so I'm asking the authors of Amendment 9: Are you insisting on voting on this amendment to Amendment 9? You insist. So I am voting on Amendment 9 of Laska and Korczynska, and whoever supports this amendment, please vote, please, please vote. [[11:40:42]] For 216 The amendment was not adopted, 216 were not adopted, and the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Dear colleagues, therefore, we have passed through all the amendments that have been considered by the committee and we can go to the vote for the bill as a whole. So I have a proposal for us to go to the draft and to vote in general. And so I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats, and I'm asking colleagues who are in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, please. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 143 of the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (number 2531) in the second reading and in general. Please support, please vote, honourable deputies, please vote. [[11:42:11]] For 244 The law was adopted in second reading and in general. Welcome, fellow MPs. And we're moving on to the next draft law of our daily order -- this is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the order of the provision of goods for military personnel number 2551. There's a requirement. Please don't scream. Please don't scream. There is a request from the deputies to show by factions, show the board by factions. Showed, yes, thank you. The report invites the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Deputy Vinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the bill proposed for consideration in the second reading submitted by the President of Ukraine, is improving the order of the provision of goods for military personnel who are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, as well as in our other force units. What is its main purpose? Today, any change, whether it's a form, or whether it's a security policy, requires proper agreement in the Cabinet of Ministers. This function is proposed to be attached by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. This bill was prepared by our volunteer volunteer, who works hard at the Ministry of Defense and has already done so. We have very effective results in the purchase of fuel-oil materials, and we welcome Mr. Gusev's work as Deputy Secretary of Defense. And this bill was completely in agreement with the volunteer landing, and the amendments that are being introduced to this bill today are pretty comprehensive and balance its final text. In total, there were ten proposals, five of which were taken fully into account, two taken into account editorially, and three were rejected by the committee. So the bill is extremely simple, and I don't think it's causing much discussion. Of course, according to the Rules, we will carry out this amendment, although we propose to vote and this is the decision of its committee in its second reading and as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u99	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Among the amendments that have been made to the committee, this is a really important bill, are those that are rejected. And that's why I have to go through every single one of them. So, 3rd, National Deputy Levus. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Fourth, Bereza People's Deputy, Blackwall. Are they insisting? Don't insist. 8th National MP Levus. Don't insist. In fact, the authors of these amendments do not insist. And so we can go to the vote for this draft law in the second reading and in general. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. It's an important bill, and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, get to your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the order of the provision of military personnel (No. 2551) in second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[11:46:45.]] For 273 The bill was adopted in a second reading and in general. Welcome to the distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Internal Service Statute for the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of personal wireless devices. And the report invites Mr. Winnick, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually continuing the legislative initiative proposed by the government on how to use mobile means in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Clearly, the use of mobile communication poses a danger because our enemy today makes powerful use of the capabilities of electronic intelligence to locate our units and to place artillery on these units. Clearly, this is a matter for discussion, for it is a matter for decision. In addition, it is important to consider, unfortunately, the limitations that are still in place today regarding the use of communication. It is in the Bill of the People’s Deputy, our committee colleague, that we take into account the actual objections proposed by the Radical Party regarding the possibility of mobile communication by medical personnel. And so when we vote on the law as a whole, we're just going to propose an editorial so that these restrictions really don't apply, and I'm going to read under the transcript, the use of mobile communications by military and military medical personnel, and the threat to the lives of military personnel. This will resolve the issue that colleague Lazko stressed about saving lives if there is really no other. Another way to communicate is to coordinate the actions of medical personnel. In general, we're going to go to a comparative table. In this law, there were 19 proposals, two were completely taken into account, the rest was rejected. What I wanted to point out is this law introduces a new Appendix 20 to the Military Statute of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We change article 59, which clearly establishes the commanding officer’s mandate to set up a mobile system. Indeed, it is necessary to give the commander of the military unit the right to do so on his own, taking into account the danger that there is an urgent need to regulate the use of mobile devices. So after considering all the amendments, I ask you to vote on this law in the second reading and as a law as a whole, because this is extremely important, it will increase the resilience, the resilience of our units, and it will really limit the essential capabilities of enemy intelligence. Please go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u101	Thank you. So in this bill, as in the previous series of amendments that came to the committee, we've been rejected and we have each of them to have a discussion and analysis. So the second amendment, the national MPs Lazko and Korczynska. Are they insisting? They insist. Please turn on Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, our faction will not support this bill, because at this point the government, which you have already voted on, is still more optimal for the front. There's a commander in charge. This bill is an instruction that looks absolutely like a sub-legislative act. And bylaws should only change from the operational situation on the front. So our faction will not support this bill, thinking that the bill that has already been passed and voted is more optimal. But in this case, the vote applies to medical departments and medical personnel on the front. And that's why we insist on this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u103	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u104	Strangely enough, if you insist on the amendment, why don't you support the bill as a whole? Because, in fact, this bill, if it becomes law, will take into account the question of the possibility of mobile phone medical services. And as for the commander's credentials, you know, now the situation looks like some things need to be specifically and specifically indicated in the bills. Because if you put it back on the table. It's for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] The bill was considered by the committee and a decision was taken accordingly. Please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare, there will be a vote now. This is amendment number 2 of Light and Korczynski. I think it's completely logical and correct. And I'm asking the people's deputies to vote on this amendment. Amendment 2 (Light, Korczynska) please vote. Vote, please. [[11:52:15]] For 202 Dear colleagues, there's information that hasn't arrived. And so let me put it back, and then we'll make the final decision. If we don't get the votes back, we'll move on. So I'm asking you to go back to voting for Amendment No. 2 of Laska and Korczynski. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote for the return. [[11:53:00]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next, 3 amendments, National Deputy Constantinowski. Is it insisting? No, it's not. 4th National Deputy Shinkovich. Is it insisting? Yes, please turn on the microphone. People's MP Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, well, it's kind of paradoxical to have a personal battery storage organization, and my license adds "that cell phone terminals." Because, well, how can you keep one from the other? These are thousands of people who have to somehow separate the power supply from the terminal, then turn it back. My opinion, and I'd like to support it, and I would like to say, "and the cell phone terminals." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u107	Thank you. Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u108	The point is, it's an editorial committee. And indeed, in this case, this is a collective decision made by the members of all the factions that are represented on our committee. So given that the committee's decision is rejected, with all due respect for my colleague, we can't support it. But, of course, let the hall be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u109	Thank you. I understand there's an insistence on voting. And that's why I'm putting amendment number four, National Deputy Shinkovic, to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[11:54:44]] For 180. The decision is not made. Is the next amendment 5, Kobtsev’s national deputy, or is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Again, 6-a. Don't insist. 7th, Shinkovic or insists? Don't insist. 8th, Lensky or insists? No, it doesn't. That's good. 10th, Constantinowski insists? No, it doesn't. 11th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. The 12th National Deputies of Lazko and Korczynska, do they insist? They insist. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Corchinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u110	Once again, Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Again, think of the boys on the front! Don't sign the law in the form of a service instruction, don't vote! You're paralyzing at the moment and the front. Because now it's enough of the law that you've voted to immediately take legal acts and, depending on the operational environment, to make the service, nevertheless, bylaws. If you vote, now it's paralyzing the boys out there on the front. Please don't support this bill. And on our amendment that the exclusions have the medics on the front, we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Is there a need to comment? Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u112	Dear Mrs. Corchinska! Regrettably, the Statute of the Military Force and its additions are not a legal act. That's why we're proposing this bill to approve our own addition to the Military Statute, which clearly regulates the use of mobile phones. Including the possibility of using medical services. That is why we cannot talk about legal acts when it comes to such important issues as the Statute of Military Service, as well as the issues regulated by this bill. This amendment was rejected by the committee. This is a collegiate, joint decision of the committee. Tom, please put it to the vote if it is necessary to confirm it accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Thus, the amendment of the 12 national deputies Lazko and Korczynska is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[11:57:25]] For 169 The decision is not taken. 13 Amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u114	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This amendment is similar to the one I proposed to the last bill, which, unfortunately, has not passed. In the last bill, you took the first step towards completely depriving the military of any contact with the rear, with their families, with their children, with their parents, with their wives. Now you want this second law to get this first step of yours and take the last step, actually. Once again, in the vast majority of parts, including the front, there is no specialty as such, or as one that works. He's gone. If you take away every opportunity to use mobile phones for military personnel, then they will have nothing to do with the back, nothing. Our amendment is very simple. For 5 minutes a day, it is possible for one telephone to be issued by the commander at the request of a military officer for 5 minutes a day to contact his loved ones. I urge the session room to support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u116	Perhaps it was a sad question that you were not invited to consider on the committee because it was considered without your presence. Instead, if you read your amendment, you will be offered two options: if the part is fully secured or if the part is not fully secured. That, in your sense, "not fully equipped with a complex special relationship" is not understood, instead, we're not saying that we're completely breaking up with the back. It is in Appendix 20, which is proposed by the author of the 2154 bill that there is a clear order of how mobile phones can be used: where, at what time, where the base camp is located, the military part, etc. That's why we rejected this amendment because it doesn't specify what it means, but instead it's the committee's decision, if there's another vision of the room, let's put it to a vote, and let's take a look at that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues. A vote is taken on amendment No. 13 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote, please vote, please include the vote. [[12:00:10]] For 135 The decision is not taken. 14th Amendment. Dear colleagues, by the way, I continue, according to the Rules, the work of our session until the issue is resolved. 14th Amendment. National MPs Lazko and Korczynska. Are they insisting? Please, 1 minute Korczynska, Oksana Korczynska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u118	Please pass on the word of Parasuk Volodymyr, perhaps the only one of the few self-help fighters left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u119	Didn't I hear who? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u120	That's when there's going to be a van that's fighting for the front and saying that soldiers need it, then you can vote for that law. And when a man comes who thinks he needs soldiers and what doesn't, that law can't be upheld. You understand this is the only connection to the front, I've come from Marinka! What are the radios you're talking about? You're taking the bridge from the soldiers! You better think of ways to raise pensions and wages rather than to take up the ranks of soldiers. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u121	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u122	You know, Mr. Parasuk, we have almost every team represented in the Supreme Council, and this is a balanced committee decision, and it's not my personal opinion, it's a joint committee decision that I report to the committee. If you don't know the Staff Regulations of the Supreme Council, what can I do? Come to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u123	Do you insist on voting, Mrs. Oksana? A vote is taken on amendment 14 of the People’s Deputies Laska and Korchinska. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. Please vote. [[12:02:25]] For-157. The decision is not taken. The 15th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenko. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u124	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The 15th amendment's pretty technical. By the way, I'm surprised why she's not supported. It seems that some political motives were on the committee. The point is, for the principles of legal certainty, it's written "wireless access devices" not to use such a concept. So it's technical, I'm asking you to support it. But I would like to take note of the comments of the rapporteur on my previous amendment. My previous amendment made it clear that, unfortunately, it was not supported that if there was a specialty in part, then the commander could allow it. It may prohibit the use of mobile phones, if there is no specialty, it gives at least five minutes a day, all clear, all clear. You're evil when you say you don't cut back, because you're this bill and in the past, you're giving the commanders authority to ban the use of mobile phones, in general. It's their own decision. So you're de facto cutting the connection to the back. Please don't cheat.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u125	Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u126	Well, if you think the term "incompletely secure" is, in your opinion, exhaustive in terms of communication, well, maybe that's what you think. As far as your amendment is concerned, we actually have a legal remedy in place by the Legal Authority when they're preparing the text of the law for signature, so maybe you should go to them and make some adjustments. I reiterate that this is a committee decision, not my own. So if you have a different opinion, let's vote in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u127	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Therefore, the amendment of the 15 People’s Deputies of Lechchenko is made to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[12:04:35]] For-129 The decision is not made. 16 Constantinowski’s Amendment Don't insist. 17th, Kobtsev. Don't insist. 18th, Constantinowski. Don't insist. And the last 19th, yes, the last is rejected. People’s deputies Lazko and Korczynska do not insist. Dear colleagues, this is how we passed. He insists, doesn't he? Well, I didn't understand your gesture. I need to make a sign system. Please give me 1 minute, National Deputy Lazko or Korczynska? Which one of you is going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u128	The authors of the amendments, the company. Mrs. Oksana? Society, the amendments are made. Igor, don't be hysterical. You don't have to be hysterical. Mrs. Oksana, please. Turn on Oksani Korczynski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u129	Once again, distinguished national MPs, I'm addressing your sanity, I beg you, you're in this room right now because the boys on the front, don't leave them without opportunities, take care of them, protect their interests. I'm telling you again, this bill doesn't need to be supported at this point because it doesn't solve the problem, it's just giving us problems right now. A government bill is enough to secure the front and protect them from allegations by special departments. This bill does nothing to help the front, except that it limits, except that it adds problems to the commanders, the fighters, all the medical services and, in this case, paralyses our hospitals, civilian hospitals. I ask you not to support this bill. Thank you very much. I hope you'll take care of the help of the front and our fighters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the violent bill. Another closing word from the committee, please, but in one minute, try to enter and then proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, and when the closing statement is concluded, I ask everyone to come into the hall and take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please, John Winnick, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u131	From the committee, we're proposing a transcript of an amendment that applies to medical personnel, and we think it's a good comment from the Radical Party that we would like to support. In fact, this editorial is in agreement with the chief surgeon of the Ministry of Defence, Igor Petrovich Homenko, who was discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Defence and other military authorities, and in particular representatives of the Radical Party. The table of contents is next. In Appendix 20, which we propose to introduce this bill, we suggest that paragraphs 15 and 19 be put in the next line. Paragraph 15, in antiterrorist areas, as well as in states of emergency or operation, especially in areas where hostilities are taking place, the use of mobile means is prohibited, except in cases where mobile means are used by medical personnel of military forces and units in the event of a threat to the lives of military personnel. Paragraph 19 is inserted in the next line. The commander arranges for the storage of mobile supplies and power supplies received from military personnel at military sites.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u132	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u133	It provides an exception to the personal composition of the subordinate, such as medical personnel in military units and units, to the possibility of negotiating by means of mobile means while the geolocation function on mobile devices should be disabled. Please vote on the bill in the second reading, including the transcript and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u134	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, we can go to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies. I'm asking the National Deputies to step away from the government's bed and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. I'm asking you to enter the People's Deputies Hall. Dear colleagues, I am once again calling on the national MPs to take up jobs. And after discussion, we can put a bill to the vote as a whole. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Statute for the Internal Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of personal wireless devices, number 2154, second reading and generally. Please vote, as a whole, in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:10:17]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am now. Please, with 30 seconds of motivation. But let's maybe put it to the vote first and then to the motive. Please, 30 seconds, Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind everyone that this vachanal voting for this law is happening because we voted in favour of Law 2531 before that. I want to remind you that the creation of two laws, two draft laws from one subject of regulation, is simply not possible under the Rules. This is what happens in a constant violation of the Rules, which leads to people becoming disoriented in principle for voting. I ask that the leadership of the Supreme Council be very strict in ensuring that no laws of the same subject of regulation are available under different numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u136	Thank you. So, the society is ready, there will be a vote now, please don't leave the hall. The proposal to return to the second reading of Bill 2154 is put to the vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote for the second reading again. Please vote. [[12:11:57]] For-163 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. And now, dear colleagues, one minute of message. There's already a decision to be made by the committee that we've been waiting for 1088 in cashiers. It will now be distributed to all deputies by the apparatus. I very much ask you to study these questions as much as possible during the break. Perhaps we could gather factions and groups to put the matter first and be able to vote with effect when we enter the hall. Please study the documents, the committee's decision, and I'll call it 12:40. At 12:40 we are all waiting in the hall to continue our difficult but important work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, recess is over. Please come into the hall to continue our work. According to Bill 1088, the table is distributed to all deputies. The MPs were able to get to know her during our break. Now we're going to look at this project. There was activity yesterday before the lobby was blocked, and today I see an empty hall. I very much ask colleagues, the heads of factions to invite MPs into the conference room to continue our work, because we're starting with the impeccable question: 1088. Please come into the hall. The faction secretariat, please report to the MPs. Nina Petrovna Yuzanin is ready for the report in the hall. When inviting MPs, a special appeal was made to Nina Petrovna of the South. She's going to be a bill reporter now, so I'm asking you to come to the hall and work. Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall. We prepare for work and invite Juliana Nina Petrovna to join us in our important responsible work. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the next issue of the agenda, an important bill. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Application of Registers of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services (State Guarantees to Operators in the Application of Registers), No. 1088. The bill is discussed in a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please listen to the report in the drawing room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u138	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We're going to be looking at a very complicated bill right now. So I would like your attention and to focus on everything that we're about to discuss. The second reading of the bill from the Ukrainian National Deputies received 75 amendments, 25 of which were taken into account, 23 rejected, and 27 amendments taken into account in substance or in part. I would like to remind you that Act No. 71 on Tax Reform of 1 July 2015, which, as of today, imposes an obligation on individuals entrepreneurs who are paying the only tax of the third group to apply the RRO. The same obligation to apply the RRO is also established for payers of the second group tax since January 1, 2016. Realizing that there are no alternatives to the introduction of RROs, national committee members in the drafting of the bill tried to count as many small and small fines as possible that could be applied to entrepreneurs who would start applying RROs from the given dates. So all of our attention, all of our work, is to undo a series of fine regulations for these entrepreneurs. This was the case when the work was done: For all the subjects of the household, it was freed from the need to keep a daily fiscal check in the books of accounting transactions (this glue to the book) and control tapes for 3 years (this is the coils of the tapes in the boxes to be stored). And we also predicted that in checking cash discipline in such entrepreneurs, there might be an inadequacy of cash available in the cashier's box from the amount recorded in the ZED report. We also discussed the possibility of cancelling the 5-fold financial liability for violating the RRO Act. Everybody knows the fine's too big. We talked about the service centers being obliged to operate RROs without disassemblying them in order not to pick up any new seal for 50 bracelets, as they do. We also talked about the obligation of service centers in the event of insecurity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u139	Please give us a chance to finish. How long will it take, Nina Petrovna? Five minutes, yeah. Please turn on before the report is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u140	Within seven days of its adoption, it will be put into service properly registered to maintenance entities by a reserve registry for accounting transactions. The financial responsibility of the service centres has been introduced for violating the terms of the guaranteed repair of the RRO and the non-use of the reserve RRO. We also said that the RRO would not be used in foreign exchange-sales transactions if such transactions were carried out in the case of authorized banks. So by 90 percent of Bill 1088, these are liberal norms that will apply not only to entrepreneurs of the second and third groups, but to entrepreneurs in general who use cash machines. It's a significant breakthrough right after the fiscal load, because it hasn't happened for many, many years. And now let's move on to the most important thing. After further consultations, a compromise solution was proposed for microbusiness, with annual income of less than 1 million dollars. Suggested by making changes to paragraph 296. 10 The Ukrainian Code of Taxation states that accountants do not apply the single tax payers of the first group and the second group of individuals, entrepreneurs regardless of the type of activity selected, in which the amount of income does not exceed a thousand dollars during the calendar year. If the amount of income exceeds 1 million dollars per calendar year, it is mandatory to apply a register of settlement transactions for such a single tax payer. This application of the accounting transaction register starts with 1 month of the next quarter after the occurrence of such a surplus and continues in all subsequent tax periods during the sole tax payer’s testimony. We have the same first, second, third and fourth groups. We say the second group has a marginal amount of income allowed for a year and a half million dollars. He has been obliged to apply the FR only since January 1, 2016. So from January 1, 2016, such an entrepreneur trades a period of, if never, September 2016 does not reach 1 million, and it continues to trade within 1 million years without an RRO. If, for example, he says, in June, he reached a million, he has since July 1st, because they have quarterly reporting, from July 1st to July 1st, and he has a further activity within himself, he still has a limit of 500,000 with the use of the RRO. And all the subsequent periods, next year it's getting bigger. So he's got more than a million incomes, he's going to work with RRO. For entrepreneurs who are only taxed in the third group. They have 20 million authorized operations in a year. Same system. He works without an RRO until he reaches one million. After one million entrepreneurs have to purchase RROs, install them, and from the following month, the neighborhood that has been overrun will continue to work with RROs. I think that such a system will really satisfy the demands of small entrepreneurs who care only for themselves and their family. In which he works one job at a time, two employees at a time. According to the statistics provided by the State Fiscal Service, the amount of income declared by entrepreneurs in the second group was 720 thousand in 2014. So let's not speculate. We satisfy almost the entire second group by making such a decision, that's the first. In the second group, we have 600,000 entrepreneurs. These are the people who are now coming to the walls of the Supreme Council. So, Your Honor, we're compromising. So let's ask the government to listen to our decision that you and I made yesterday, that's the right way. Because if we're really going to have a tax culture and our customers are going to demand checks from entrepreneurs, that's what we're going to stimulate, maybe even before we go to non-fiscal cashiers first. If 40 percent of non-fiscal cashiers are in Europe, who made them do it is the consumer who asks for the check. This rule will solve another problem. We're saying that too much sales are made in the boutiques of Kiev. Well, there's over a million. And they're going to have to put up cashiers. But this is our job: when we buy things, we ask for a cashier's check. Because we agree to conceal these incomes, and then, by some means, we suggest that we introduce laws that put such entrepreneurs in a standstill. Consciousness must be on both sides, both for entrepreneurs and for consumers. It's only these two sides that can make us move in the right direction -- in the direction of declaring real sales volumes. Please, a million people are completely satisfied with all businesses, and there is no need for promotion. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna, you don't have to. One-and-a-half million doesn't solve anything, and that's actually a compromising decision. He's not deciding. Please, this is me. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u141	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that by late last night and this afternoon, there was a very difficult task of conciliating and deputating factions and government. The bill, which is discussed in the second reading, does not provide for discussion, but foresees its own stand for amendments. So now I'm going to pass on Natalia Jaresko's word for clarification, and then we're going to go over the amendments. Please turn on Natalie Jaresko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u142	Thank you. Deputies! I just want to add that we have proposed by vote the possibility of adding another amendment to the bill, which allows for an order of verification of the application of the RRO by September 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u143	Thank you. So let's move on to the amendments. The 2nd Amendment, which was rejected, is the national deputy of Zhurzyi. Does he insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u144	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u145	Don't insist. Next amendment number 6, People's Deputy Sold. Mrs. Oksana, are you insisting? Don't insist. The 9th, again, Oksana Prodan. Is Oksana Prodan insisting? No, it doesn't. According to the Rules, I have to follow them and carry out this procedure. 10th. People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. 21st. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 22nd. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 24th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 30th. Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 31st. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 35th. Lensky. Don't insist. 40th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 43rd. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 45th. Sold. Don't insist. 46th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 48th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 51st. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 53rd. He's been pecking. Is it insisting? Don't insist. And 54th. He's been pecking. Don't insist. 55th. He's been pecking. He doesn't insist either. And 56th. He's been pecking. Obviously, he doesn't insist. 57th. I'm in a hurry. Don't insist. 63rd. He's been pecking. Don't insist. 64th. He's been pecking. There is no way to insist from Moscow. 71st. Sold. Don't insist. So, respectable colleagues. One second, 72, you're talking, right? 72, it's counted. Mrs. Alexandro, 72 readjustments count. Please amend 72 by Ostrikav. Please, Deputy Ostrikav, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, amendment 72, which was agreed yesterday by the faction leaders and the working group on the coalition's council, is about to somehow limit the use of accounting registers at this difficult time for the State, and it has been proposed that for the second and third groups, regardless of their activities, no accounting transaction registers will be applied if they are not traded more than 1 million dollars. The Minister of Finance has now asked us to separate the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a verification mechanism that will allow for the control of over 1 million dollars, which will give rise to the need for a register of accounting transactions. We all know with you that this sphere, the application of the RRO, is not as pure as we think it is. There is a problem with the state that it has not been able to provide a software and technology complex for the State Fiscal Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u147	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u148	Electronic reporting directly from subjects to DFS We know that there are information equators, we know that everything is not so smooth and not so clean in this area. So given all these factors, we decided to listen to the general idea and limit the use of RROs by turnover of up to 1 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u149	I didn't hear the offer. Are you insisting on confirming this amendment or not? You don't insist. Mrs. Alexander, I'd love to give you my word, but half an hour ago, the National Deputy Vlasenko came to me and strongly insisted that the word could only have the author of the amendment. I am very much asking that we negotiate with and agree on this issue, because the Rules should be one for all, not separate for different factions. What other amendments are there warnings? None. Dear colleagues, we have spoken of all the amendments that have been rejected by the committee. What's that? Is the amendment insisting? The amendment does not insist on the approval of the amendment, I apologize, society. 75th. Wait a second. 75 revisions. I'll find who. 75th Oksana Sold, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Andrey, please. Mr. Andrey, I ask you to put to the vote a bill in an editorial that is approved by the committee without any other oral suggestions. Please put to the vote an editorial approved by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. I'm actually going to do that. And I would like to point out that this text that was delivered by the chairman of the committee right now from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, is the result of long-term work. And there's all the things that are said that are balanced. Now I'm giving you my word, now I'm giving you my word to the head of the committee. Then I'll give the floor to the minister. And then we go to the vote. Please, first. The first minute is Natalia Jaresko, the minute is Jujanina. Mrs. Natala, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u152	I'm just asking you to vote with one amendment, from what the committee agreed with us on a coalition with the coalition factions yesterday. Add one line, i.e. to assign the Kabmin to enter the check order by September 1st, which was discussed earlier in Self-Help. It's just this one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u154	We have to support Mrs. Natalia, because we can't. We have to compromise. We can. They have to develop a logical methodology so they can fix it, and how is this 1 million going to store sales in an entrepreneur? Otherwise, we become uncontrollable forever. That's why I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u155	Please let me finish. Make an offer, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u156	My God, I don't even know what "what are you doing?" We're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u157	Please make a proposal, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u158	Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy proposes a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on State Guarantees to Operators in the Application of Accountants, registration number (1088), taking into account the proposal of a bill that had just been issued by Mrs. Jaresko to accept in the second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine, as part of the Committee on Amendments to Jaresko. I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking very much for jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u160	The amendment refers to the need for the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up an order for the subject to be checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It's not pressure on the presidency. It's work. I therefore put to the vote the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on State Guarantees to Host Operators in the Application of Accountants, Number (1088), as amended by Natalia Jaresko. I ask that the bill be voted on in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. People's deputies, please, we're voting. [[13:13:41]] For 248 The law was passed, and so did the people. It is good that the Supreme Council has found enough political will to do so. I welcome the adoption of this bill and move on to the next draft agenda. The next issue of the agenda is Bill 2620 of the Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. This bill is also part of a second reading. And the report is invited, and the committee head is giving the floor to Committee Secretary John Winnick. And I'm asking you to report to the rostrum. Thank you. Mr. John, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen. Your law. Your law. You reported on the first reading. Dear colleagues, we are considering the bill of our colleague Stephen Barna, who was already adopted in the first reading and was further elaborated on the committee. The purpose of the bill is extremely simple. The thing is, we got rid of the appeal during the mobilization of the students of the higher education institutions. Instead, when we mobilize teachers, scientists, teachers, and teachers today, there is no one to teach in these respective scientific and higher institutions. So by this bill, our colleague, Stephen Barna, is proposing to release military service during the mobilization of scientific and scientific and pedagogical workers who have a degree in science and/or science and work in higher education institutions, scientific institutions and organizations, and above all, at the core of the job and at least 0.75 rates. It's very important. The other one. Soldiers from the number of individuals mentioned above who were called in connection with the mobilization and taking effect of this law are exempt if they have not expressed their desire to continue in the ministry. It's a typical norm that we always set now, because there are a lot of people who want to continue in their patriotic emotions despite being released from military service under the law. In total, 13 proposals, amendments were made, two were taken into account in full, five were taken into account in part, three were taken into account in editorial terms, and three were rejected. Therefore, the committee proposes that this law be adopted in the second reading as the law in general. Please follow the amendments, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. Dear colleagues, please take some emotion off and get back to constructive work. Now we're looking at bill 2620. And we have to walk through those amendments that were rejected. So, attention, the rejected amendment number 3, the national deputy of Kobtsev. Does he insist? Don't insist. Also rejected is Amendment 9, Branzovich. Does Branzovich insist? Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone, National Deputy Branzovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u164	Honorary colleagues, restrictions on the suspension of military service during special period mobilization, include scientists, teachers, postgraduate students who conduct scientific activities and research in applied science, and fundamental science. But Ukrainian legislation does not give a clear idea of what fundamental and applied science is, so I ask that this part of the law be rejected. And I'm also asking you to introduce teachers of general education on suspension, because the recruitment of military personnel during a special period of pedagogical education makes it difficult and, in some cases, makes it impossible to implement a full learning process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u165	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Branzovich, in fact, by agreeing with your offer, we set other criteria for determining who these people are, whom we release. And these criteria are that this is the main place of work and at least 0.75 bets. So we're very clear about the employees of scientific, scientific and pedagogical institutions that are adequately freed from the recruitment appeal. The committee has decided to reject your amendment, but if the room has a different opinion, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u167	Do you insist on voting? Yes. So, dear colleagues, please mobilize. The vote is amended by number 9, National Deputy Branzovich. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:19:27]] For 139 Correction rejected. The 10th amendment was rejected by the committee of the Lensky People’s Deputy. Does Lensky insist? Lensky doesn't insist. Now, society, there are several amendments that are partially taken into account. And the authors of the amendments insist that we follow them too. First amendment, Greenevich, partially counted. Does Mrs. Lilia insist? He insists. Please give Lily Greenevich a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, we fully support what is needed to ensure that the exemption from mobilization applies to the declared categories of science and teaching and science workers, but we insist on including the category of "pedagogical staff in general schools." For statistics, I want to say that this is a very small number of men who are working in high school today. We have a huge imbalance there. It's very important to keep them. Now there's this wave of mobilization, when they come to school, they're giving messages to people who are in their jobs. For help: we only have 16 percent of male pedagogical workers in the general secondary school. Of these, 50 percent are pensioners. So we can actually talk about 8 percent of people in the pedagogical field. Please support my amendment to include pedagogical workers in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u169	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u170	Men who work in public schools are clearly in the main workplace and, of course, with adequate workload.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u171	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u172	Dear Mrs. Greenevich, this may indeed be a very good offer. Instead, if you look at the content and purpose of this bill, which was adopted in the first reading, it's called "The Mobilization Training and Mobilization" for the release from military service during the mobilization of the curriculum of higher education institutions and scientific colleagues. Regrettably, based on the Rules, the committee was not able to accept such an offer, but rather to release the appeal during the mobilization of public school staff. And that's why we've only taken you into account on an editorial basis in the liberating part, if they have their own wish, of military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u173	Thank you. As I understand it, Mrs. Lila proposes to put the amendment to the vote. I ask my respectable colleagues to mobilize, prepare for the vote. Mr. Andrew, in the matter of order of the day, in the second reading, the authors of the amendments speak. There's no discussion and there's no talk from the factions. Dear colleagues, there is a request to support Amendment No. 1 of Lilia Greenevich. I ask everyone to mobilize, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. So, whoever supports Amendment No. 1 of National Deputy Greenevich, please vote. Please vote, support. Please vote. Please. [[13:22:59]] For 231 Correction supported. Next amendment number 5 of the people's deputy Greenevich, only partially counted. Does Mrs. Lila insist? He insists. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, this amendment, it continues the work that we have just done after the first amendment. We've changed the title of the bill, and now we're going to put it in the text of the bill. So we're liberating pedagogical staff from mobilization. What I'm saying is that this amendment has a standard of 0.5 bets, not 0.75, as suggested by the committee. We can agree on 0.75, if that's very important, but it's very important that we introduce this category of pedagogical school staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u175	Mr. Ivan, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u176	Indeed, the Committee’s critical condition was the question of 0.75 bets. If the author agrees that according to this ideology, we'll leave 0.75 and change the contents of the amendment by 0.5. And given that we have already voted on pedagogical staff in public schools, we should probably support this amendment and vote on it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to support amendment number five. I'm asking you to mobilize. An important amendment that continues the logic of the first amendment that we voted for. Please prepare to vote responsibly, not to move away from your jobs. And I would like to vote in favour of amendment number 5 of the People's Deputy, Lilia Grinevich. Please vote, please support. [[13:25:07]] For 237 Correction accepted. And we still have the 12 revisions that are edited, do you insist on change? Don't you insist? No, it's not. Roger that. So we were able to go through all the amendments that were made to the committee. Now I'm going to give the closing statement to John Winnick, and then we're going to go to the vote. Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, a small trailer under the stenogram. They refer to the amendments made by the people’s deputy Greenevich regarding 0.75 rates. Because if you read the text of the bill, the text of the amendment, which we considered completely, is amendment number 5. It's about 0.5 bets. So that we don't have any differences under the stenogram, please note that the amendment is accepted except that it's 0.75 bets, not 0.5, as set out in Amendment 5. Please vote in second reading and as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u179	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, you've heard the committee head's proposal, and we're moving to a vote. I invite the deputies to the hall to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please move from the government's bed to your workplace. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization on the Liberation of Military Service in Mobilization of the Teaching Composition of Higher Education Institutions and Scientific Fellows (No.2620), as amended by the Secretary of the Committee, John Winnick, under the transcript in the closing word. Please support this bill in second reading and in general. Please support me, please vote. [[13:27:28]] For 266 The Law was adopted in the second reading and in general, 2620. Welcome to the authors and the committee. And let's move on to the next question of the agenda. This is Bill 2806. The draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety of Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area Where Military Status or Anti-Terrorism Operation Is Introduced, 2806. Reported by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, John Winnick. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, we adopted this bill in the first reading. It is a matter of providing individual security for individuals who perform service duties within territories in which a military situation is established or an antiterrorist operation is carried out. The point is that many high - ranking officials today visit the ATO zone on duty, and today the issue of giving them the opportunity to carry firearms is pressing. The bill therefore establishes an appropriate order by which categories of persons are identified, and it refers to the employees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the staff of the Office of the President, other senior officials who are entitled to receive arms temporarily, for the period of their stay in the counter-terrorism operation zone. The committee considered a total of 6 proposals, amendments to this bill, of which 1 was included, 2 were taken into account in part and 3 were rejected. In general, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and as a law as a whole. Please let the chairman move on the amendments and look at them separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are not many amendments and I think we'll get through them quickly. So the first amendment of the Levchenk People’s Deputy. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u182	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. We now have such an interesting situation in the state that national MPs have access to weapons, and now this law proposes to give access to weapons to many more different officials. After that, for six months in the Supreme Council, there has been a bill on civilian weapons and ammunition, which is nowhere to be moved and ordinary people, ordinary Ukrainians have not been able to acquire firearms under normal procedures. Therefore, even in the context of this bill, my amendment concerns not only officials who travel to the ATO to allow themselves to have weapons, but also journalists, volunteers, doctors, and medical personnel who regularly or temporarily perform their duties within the areas in which the state of war is established or in which antiterrorism operations are carried out. In order to balance the rights of Ukrainian citizens a little bit, so that we don't have any more equal rights, you know, like in that book of Orwell: "All equal, but some equal." So I urge the hall to support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u183	Thank you. Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u184	I really agree, perhaps with the need to give arms to all Ukrainian citizens as is the case in some countries, instead, we need to fully follow the rules and take them into account when considering laws on committees. The point is that this bill is called "to ensure the individual security of persons who perform service duties." Regrettably, volunteers and journalists do not carry out their service duties, so that is why they do so. Because this is contrary to the regulation, contrary to the purpose and content of the bill, the amendment was collegiately rejected by the committee. Please confirm by vote, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u185	Thank you. So please prepare for the vote. The vote shall be voted on by the amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, amendment number one. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote, amendment number one. [[13:32:03]] For-166 Correction not accepted. Next amendment number 3. Again, the people's deputy Levchenka. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u186	He insists. Well, first of all, I'd like to comment on the response of the reporter that my amendment does not seem to apply to the performance of duty. Once again, volunteers, doctors, medical staff, journalists, who are constantly in the antiterrorist area of what is called the so - called operation and, in fact, where war takes place, yes, they carry out their duties and duties. What do they do there? What, are they drinking, resting? I don't understand. So to deny such people the right to carry weapons while giving officials the right to carry weapons, well, that is, to put it mildly, hypocrisy, and total inequality! As for Amendment No. 3. We offer to allow individuals who have, need individual protection, to purchase arms or special means of individual protection and notification on their own. Because under such circumstances a person will be able to acquire weapons without delay and protect himself in the event of a threat to his life. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u187	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u188	It's hard to comment when we're trying to impose civil terms on legal matters. The content of the bill refers to the duties of the public service. Rather, it is not about volunteering. Any volunteer activity, it's not a government service. We understand that clearly. With regard to the offer of the Levchenk People’s Deputy to buy their own weapons. This goes a little contrary to the content of the bill, because the bill provides for the temporary provision of arms. It refers to the weapons that belong to the State for temporary use in the area of antiterrorist operations. Instead, how will weapons be removed that will be purchased personally by those who want to protect themselves during their departure? That is why, given the temporary nature of the provision of resources for individual protection by our committee, the proposal of Deputy Lewchenk was rejected. I'd like you to determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u189	Thank you. Thus, the vote is voted on by Amendment No. 3 of the People’s Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:34:55]] For a-117. Correction not accepted. And the last rebuffed amendment number 6 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. He insists, so turn on the microphone for him, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u190	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out to the rapporteur that the law is called "on tax measures to ensure the individual security of persons who perform service duties within the territory." And so on and so forth. Those who serve as ministerial servants, not as civil servants. The term “service obligations” also applies to any private person who works in private enterprises. They also carry out their service duties. So please don't manipulate me again. The last amendment refers to ensuring that all who have the right to bear arms now under article 1 of this Law are subject to medical examination and training in the handling of weapons. Because this is a project that we're proposing to simplify access to weapons, again, for individual categories of citizens. I think that if they're getting so much easier access to weapons, then let them go through appropriate courses and medical examinations at least on the subject of their mental resilience. And they're going to be all kinds of government officials, and then they're going to be doing a simple, simple robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u191	Please comment, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u192	It may be necessary to quote the contents of article 2 of this Law to state clearly that this law provides for additional special measures for the individual protection of individuals who perform functions of the State within the territory in which the state of war is established or where an anti-terrorist operation is carried out. This is what we mean when we talk about the public service and about those who perform service duties in the area of antiterrorist operations. And with regard to the procedure for granting temporary use of arms as a means of individual security, it has become a legislative practice for any order to be defined in the regulations. And that's why we rely on the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an appropriate order to provide either evidence of emotional resilience or physical help or any other. Therefore, the committee has rejected this amendment, perhaps we should not limit the list of requirements solely to those proposed by the national deputy Lewchenko, and the Cabinet of Ministers will set it up on its own. The amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u193	Thank you. But Lechchenko insists that the vote be put to the vote. Yeah? Mr. Yuri Lewchenko? Lechenko? National MP Lewchenko and Osuhovski, do you insist on voting? Thus, amendment 6 of the People’s Deputy Levchenko is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. [[13:38:08]] For 121 Correction not accepted. But in this way we were able to look at all the amendments that were made to the bill and we can put it on the basis of second reading and in general. Is there a need for a closing word, Mr. John?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u194	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u195	None. That's how it works. The National Deputies are requested to enter the Hall, prepare for the vote, and vote on the draft Law on Further Measures to Ensure Individual Safety of Persons Who Perform Service Duty within the Area of Military Status or Anti-Terrorism Operation, No. 2806, on second reading and as a whole. Please support me in the second reading and in general. Voting, determining, please. [[13:39:19]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Is there anyone who hasn't made it? Yes. Dear colleagues, once again I strongly recommend that you come into the hall and share in our work. I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite members of the House and Heads of factions to mobilize as well. I'll be back in a second. If there are votes, we will go back to the vote, if not, the law will be lost and perhaps only because there is not enough discipline for the deputies. Please, we're back in the hall, all places. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration and vote in favour of draft Law 2806. Whoever supports the return to this law, please vote, please support the return. Vote, people's deputies, please. [[13:40:39]] For 206 The decision is not taken. I will then, in accordance with the Rules, re-read the proposal and ask that I support it so that we do not lose the bill, and I ask you to prepare. I am voting for the proposal to return to the second reading of the draft Law on additional measures to ensure the individual security of persons performing service duties within the territory to which the state of war has been introduced or which is being carried out by the ATO (2806) for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote: read again. [[13:41:34]] For 230 Decision taken. The draft Law 2806 was directed at re-reading the second reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have the Rules, by day, to include a number of issues in the agenda. Among them is the bill 2173a, which is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the administration of the added value tax. There's a joint proposal that you adjusted yesterday to put it into the agenda today, and it's an extremely important bill so that we can get to it as soon as possible. There is also a proposal to put the daily bill 2109a and 2109a-1 into order is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on how to move goods to or from the ATO area. This is a project of the People's Deputy of Wessels. Similarly, there is a proposal to include a daily bill of 2090a in order, which is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of state defence orders. Bill 2093a is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. It's also a bill. I'm asking for your attention! We're going to vote for it now. 2177 is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration of goods rights to land). 2244 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (to improve legislation protecting economic competition of operators). The bill (2720) is also a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting by entities carrying out independent professional activities). Such bills are a request to be included in the agenda of the day session. Can we vote them in a bag? We can. Then there is the suggestion to include the bills I have listed in the agenda of the day session. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote, we support (2173a), we should definitely include in the agenda. Voting and supporting. Please. [[13:44:58]] For 228 Decisions have been taken and the bills are included in the agenda of the day session. Next under our Rules, we still have 15 minutes of time, there's a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the introduction of contractual forms of work in the field of culture, and there's a request that we take the bill into consideration for a reduced procedure. Please support the hall. Support this proposal. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please. [[13:45:49]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich to report. Please. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honorable Members of Parliament! Your opinion is proposed by a government bill amending some Ukrainian laws on the introduction of a contractual form of cultural work. It's a simple bill, but it's important. The Law on Culture and the Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs are amended into two valid laws. The purpose of this legislative initiative is driven by numerous proposals and public demands for a competitive approach in the direction of all cultural institutions. The Ministry has developed an approach that is reflected in this bill. By the way, we were working on this project with the public. The working group was led by Ukrainian national artist Stanislav Moses, artistic director of the Frank National Theatre. And in that part about the contract for artistic artistic staff, all the work, actually, the theater community and the theatre actors. What is proposed? The first section proposes a mandatory competitive selection for managers of all cultural establishments. It's not there right now. We are obliged to hold a competition for managers of state enterprises, and we are not obliged to do so for all other institutions. By the way, there are cultural leaders in the fields who, in their 20 and 25 - year work contracts, hold managerial positions. And the second part of the bill concerns the introduction of a competition and a contract for artistic and artistic staff in theaters. In principle, the same reason is to fight back, to combat excessive conservativeism, and to ensure that all those working in creative groups will be selected for competitive selection, and then it is envisaged that a contract will be made. There's an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u197	Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, how much longer do you need? Please give me one minute to finish the interview.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u198	Two important moments. The first important point is that there will be no social tension around this issue if everyone who is currently working in theatres, philharmonics, theater groups are forced to sign a new contract. The Transitional Regulations of the Government Bill stipulate that all those currently employed will automatically receive a contract of up to three years. So social requirements and social problems in this standard are solved. And the second is that there is also an alternative bill introduced by distinguished colleagues from the Supreme Council, from the ruling parliamentary coalition. Both bills were discussed on a parliamentary committee of profiles. I was personally present, I reported. The government bill itself received support. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u199	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich. I just don't see it here, I'm afraid. Please. I'm sorry, there will be. Before the chairman of the committee will report on the alternative bill by the Ukrainian National MP Irina Igorovna, I apologize. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u200	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, chairman of the Supreme Council! It would be a great honor for me right now if I had the opportunity to present a government bill here. I really look forward to it, and I envy my colleagues who work with the government on quality laws and laws. Unfortunately, I can't present a government bill today, because it really consolidates the groaning situation that is now in the institutions of culture. It's in those seven months and a half that we're working on, in fact, the first bill that concerns culture. And so I would very much like to draw your attention to that. Simulation is a major problem in society. So, alternative bill 2669-1, which was proposed by me and my fellow MPs, and non-fractional, and from the Peter Poroshenko Block, and from the Fatherland Party, is not a simulation from which our entire society is tired. This bill is extended, much broader than the government bill. It provides for a competitive selection procedure. It provides for the principles of the formation of competitive commissions, which predicts the continuity of this stagnation, of which the Minister of Culture has so beautifully appointed, that, for six months, contracts with leaders of cultural institutions that have led and enabled for decades to develop cultural institutions will be reviewed on competitive principles. So if they're high-quality managers, they're going to have a chance to continue leading these institutions, but we're going to give new, fresh people a chance to come and update our cultural institutions. This bill is an alternative, it is transparent, it is democratic, it is public, it provides for public participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u201	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u202	So regardless of the decision of our committee, we ask and ask you: we are not copyists, please support the alternative bill in the first reading. For the second reading, we have already made appropriate amendments to this bill and it will be perfect, and you will be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And I now invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u204	Dear National Deputies! Mr. Vlasenko heard -- this is the main thing, I hope everyone else hears it. What is the difference between these two bills? The problem with Mr. Kirilenko's bill is that perhaps, as critics have said, there is not a fully developed mechanism for forming a competitive commission. But the advantage of government law is that it gives two things. At the competitions, appoint artists and creative workers to establish a culture so that 80-year-old Juliet doesn't sing in an opera or somewhere and can't be changed as she is now. And it's exactly the same at the competitions to appoint culture managers. What does the alternative bill propose? The alternative bill 2669 does not provide for contracts with the artistic and artistic staff of the theatres, which is the first minus its. The second negative from the committee's point of view is that the competition commission in cultural institutions is formed, so listen, "President, the Supreme Council, with the participation of the Committee of the Supreme Council." First of all, it's anti-constitutional, because the President has no authority to appoint competitive commissions to elect the main directors of the theatres. Secondly, it's absurd, because we can't give such powers to ourselves or to the President or to anyone else. Based on everything that has been said, I would now like to read out the conclusion of the committee: "According to the discussion and taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the first reading, to adopt a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a contractual form of work in the field (room 2669), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But when preparing it for second reading, take into account the constructive provisions of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (Registration No. 2669-1), introduced by the People’s Deputies. So I would like to support in the first reading the government bill in order to be in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u205	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u206	Better positions from the National Deputies Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u207	Thank you! Dear colleagues, as I understand it, there is a need to discuss, too? There's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Then, on my right as chairman, I continue to work until the question is concluded and I ask you to sign in two for, two against, please. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, "self-help" is invited to the floor. He's handing Irina over the word, isn't he? Irina Gorgeous, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, most of all, would not want to be manipulated. Between the first and the second readings of these indiscretions, which obviously are in every bill, our bill will be further developed. When we elected a competition commission for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the President also had the right to send representatives there. And it wasn't treated as unconstitutional. However, it is this novel that we are prepared to change. All the things in the alternative bill, i.e. it's fuller, more transparent, more consistent and more systematic. And it applies to all the institutions of the basic network of culture. It's not just about theaters. That norm, which is one in the government bill that concerns theatres, is also in the alternative bill. That's why I'm not gonna take your throat, I'm not gonna force you. But I ask you to vote for an alternative bill. Because he's qualified, he's literate. And he's going to push for reform. It'll give you the opportunity to actually get new leaders into new cultural institutions. And we have them. Please support the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u209	Thank you. Please, Alexy Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block. Surrender the word to Yuri Lucenk, from the rostrum, please. Yuri Lucenk, please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u210	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction also believes that the alternative bill is a more appropriate cultural situation. And the proposed competitive appointment mechanism in this particular area is absolutely necessary. It will remove unnecessary conflicts and speculations that often arise in this very sensitive to intelligent behavior in the sphere. Please support the alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u211	Thank you. Oleg Medunica, People's Front, gives the word to the Prince. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u212	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich! The alternative bill, especially for you, suggests leaving 80-year-old juliets. Because it doesn't provide for a contract form with creative workers. Read it. And he suggests that directors of creative institutions and libraries be appointed by competitive commissions appointed by the President and the Supreme Council. And this is the power of executive power. Both park directors and museum directors will be appointed by the President and the Supreme Council. But we're getting schizophrenic, let's be sober and direct and form a normal reformer country, not populism, just because our friends signed this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u213	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, we're actually getting schizophrenia because we already have it in our culture. We have Mikhailina running the National Reserve of Kiev-Pecher Lavra, which is practically destroying this reserve. It gives the Moscow Patriarchate a concession after the concessions of part of Lavra and destroys it as a historical and architectural monument. Therefore, the Radical Party faction also supports an alternative bill, because it is necessary, once again, to stress exclusively on a competitive basis. And by moving away from those who have been in culture for centuries to start assigning leaders, new leaders who will change attitudes to Ukrainian culture, who will stop oppressing Ukrainian culture, what is happening now. And for the last one, I'd like to ask the distinguished minister of culture. My colleague, Andriy Lozov, addressed you about denouncing the names of Ukrainian national artists such as Taječka Povali. Please tell me, will it ever be considered? Will these villains be deprived of the names that the Ukrainian people are dishonoring? We are voting for an alternative bill and we are allowing new blood to enter, including culture. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u215	Heroic glory. From Fatherland, Helen Skrum and then Yuri Lewchenko, and the discussion is over. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u216	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, you know, we rarely talk about culture in this room. However, the question of cultural politics is no longer just about culture, but about information security, about the national security of our nation. The alternative bill, where I am also a coauthor, allows for competitive, open, transparent procedures for selecting culture institutions for a term of five years of the best professionals and the best representatives and civil society and the expert environment, a colleague. There are clear procedures for the formation of these committees. There are clearly defined criteria for candidates. Maybe even a little bit too clear, so we'll work it out on the first, the second reading. But this needs to be prescribed, real reform needs to be done. Thank you very much for the committee's work. We are ready for a second reading to finalize the procedure for appointing representatives to these committees, but in view of the reform of the public service that I have just submitted, including the government, and which I am working on, it is absolutely peaceful to invite representatives of both the Supreme Council and the committee and the government and the administrations to such competitive committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u217	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u218	In order for society to finally see the transparent work of competitive commissions and how best candidates are selected. Colleagues, let's support the alternative bill and make radical real reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u219	Thank you. Please, Jurko Levchenko. Jurko Levchenko now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u220	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to just, there's been a lot of discussion here, and I've drawn very simply to the difference between a government bill and an alternative bill. The government bill does not provide any competitive criteria for a competition to replace vacancies, nor does the procedure for forming a competition commission and so on. And that, in fact, is a significant flaw compared to an alternative bill. The alternative, on the other hand, defines mandatory clear requirements for a supervisor, defines a clearly competitive procedure, and the alternative bill itself can better replace, more professionally, active cultural personnel. So if you choose both the bill and the bill have certainly improved compared to the current situation, but if you choose between these two bills on the basis of the criteria of competitive selection, the alternative bill is certainly better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u221	Thank you. All the factions were able to say, "Peter Prashenko's Block" has already been said. Another 30 seconds of Self-Help and the closing word Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a mistake in the Committee on Culture. The alternative law clearly states that Juliet will be on the contract as much as anyone else, no matter how old the Juliets are. Please read. And the others. I'm talking to the minister of culture. Mr. Minister, let's do a brave act, join with the Supreme Council, support an alternative project -- and together we will create a new contemporary Ukrainian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, we talk so often about Juliet that citizens may not understand what kind of bill we are considering. I beg you, John Kirilenko's closing statement. Viacheslav Kirilenko Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u224	Honorable Members of Parliament, Your Honor! First of all, I want to thank you for your lively and constructive discussion. We're going to be showing courage together now, and there's no advice. But there may be a misunderstanding as a result of this discussion that the government is proposing a bill that does not provide for a competition. It's not true that the government has just passed a bill of government that has passed the entire government procedure that provides for competitive selection for all cultural institutions, I stress, for all that is not in principle now. And all the competitions we're running right now are just competitions at the goodwill of the Ministry or the government. That's the first one. The other one. The difference between the two bills is essentially one, the procedure for competitive selection in the government bill is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the competitive selection in the alternative bill and the bill itself, and a detailed procedure. There are benefits in this second one, there are downsides, but when I spoke, I made it clear that an alternative bill was introduced by the ruling parliamentary coalition, so make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-01-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded a heated but constructive discussion, we can move on to making decisions. I'm asking my fellow MPs who are in the towers to enter the hall to prepare for the vote. And I will put to the vote first a bill of government, then an alternative, as provided for by the Rules. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the introduction of a contractual form of work in the field of culture, 2669, on the proposal of a committee on the basis. Please support and please vote on the basis of 2669. Please vote. [[14:07:14]] For-92 The decision is not taken. I am going to vote in favour of an alternative bill and I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a contractual form of education, cultural work (2669-1) Whoever supports the bill, please vote, please support. [[2:07:55]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we could now, under the Rules, vote in favour of the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. But I do have a proposal to vote in favour of coming back to the committee so that the committee can work out, make a joint decision. There are no such fundamental differences between these bills, and let's vote together. So I'm voting on the proposal to revert to the committee's draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the implementation of contractual forms of work in the field of culture 2669 and 2669-1. And I'm asking for your support to return to the committee for further work. Please vote. [[14:08:56]] For 219 Dear colleagues, the potential is, the potential is great, we just need to mobilize. Vinick's been mobilized. I'm asking colleagues who are in the towers. We're having a hard time getting votes all the time on the last question. I ask you to enter the hall, who is in the towers, the Heads of the factions, and invite you. The faction secretariat, please. I'm asking you to mobilize as much as possible. And now I'm putting the vote back on 2669 and 2669-1. Please support this proposal and vote in favour of the return to debate 2669. Please vote conscientiously and responsibly. Vote. [[14:09:58]] For 231 Thank you for your support. 231, decision taken. And now, society, I repeat my offer. Mobilize for another minute. To return to the committee the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of contractual forms of work in the field of culture 2669 and 2669-1. This will allow us to put him back in the hall and vote quickly. Anyone for the proposal, please vote and please support. Please vote. [[14:10:45]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you all for your work. Today, we have adopted many important, responsible laws and in the area of security into the Resonant Law on Cash Devices. Today, important work will be on committees, especially in the election committee. And tomorrow will be an important day. And voting for the resignation of the minister of ecology, Shevchenk. And the law may be about elections tomorrow. And that's why I want productive committee work. We're meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. again in the hall. Here. To continue our work, and this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
