ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. In two or three minutes, our meeting will begin. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, welcome to the next session of Parliament, meeting with the parliament. I would ask all the national deputies to take up their jobs so that we can start a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Today is a tragic date in human history, and it will be appropriate when we begin ours. Our session is just an extra minute of silence. So I'd like everyone to go back to the hall and take their seats. Today, the world community mourns the memory of the Holocaust victims and the release of Auschwitz as a place of barbarism, the cruelty of killing last century. Today we honor the memory of innocent people who die at the hands of thieves, barbarians, criminals who shoot innocent citizens -- Wolnovah, Mariupol, Donetsk -- who kill innocent people who don't look at borders. This broken Boeing who was beaten by these thieves. I think there is no man in the world today who would not miss those who have left this world. As we begin our meetings, I would like to honor the memory of the innocent. And today we tell everyone what we have to draw from history, not repeat the history of human sacrifices. And among the dead, as in the last century, there are children. It's a pity for each of us, for the entire civilized world. So I ask everyone to pay tribute to the moment of silence to all innocently dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues. Please take your seats. Today we have a number of important issues to consider with you, and the main thing is the address of the Ukrainian Parliament, which recognizes the aggression of the Russian Federation, where we call upon the entire civilized world to cease. take all measures to end the military aggression against Ukraine with regard to the strengthening of sanctions to the Russian Federation as a country that supports aggression in Ukraine. Reference to Parliamentary. The Council of Europe, which today has a delegation of our deputies, who today elect our freedom, our independence. They cannot participate in this session of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Supreme Council, but they are taking part in a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I think it should be both legal and symbolic. Enough with the aggression, the killings. We will also consider a number of issues that need to strengthen our resilience. And today I urge all of us on such a day to be as consolidated as possible, to be constructive, to be effective. Thank you for your understanding. And now I'm asking, Your Honor, to include the Council system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Hall. [[12:33:52]] 323 national deputies registered. Before that. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before we begin our consideration of the agenda, I, according to the Rules, since this Tuesday, I would like to give the floor to representatives of factions and groups for presentations, and we will give you 30 minutes to do so. I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up for the performance. Please record your statement. Ladies and gentlemen of the nation! Please, the People's Front faction is by Sergei Pashinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u3	Dear compatriots! Over the past 10 days, the hope that the conflict in Ukraine will somehow stabilize and we will settle it with the help of not the power of weapons, but the power of law, the power of law, unfortunately, has dissolved. Our nation has entered a very difficult time of trial. Russian propaganda, Russian intelligence services to rock our society, are doing all the propaganda, diversified work. The purpose of this work is to soak up panic, to sow despair on our own. And unfortunately, a lot of pseudoliberals, populists and demagogs are actually working for the Russian Federation. I'm absolutely sure – I know that most of us will agree with me – we have the strength, we have the courage and we will win. But we will win only if each one of us does his job in his own place. Declarations and statements of war will not be won. The Cabinet of Ministers has taken a whole set of decisions on the establishment of military and civilian administrations, a permanent operational headquarters, so that that terrorism, the genocide that the Russian military is currently leading on Donbassa, from a humanitarian point of view, will be eliminated technically. I hope that the Commander-in-Chief will also make appropriate staffing, mobilization, and other decisions. As a parliament, we should make concrete decisions, not because of the prism of beautiful words, but because of the prism of real governance decisions. Perhaps today’s agenda does not give any challenges to all the questions that are currently on the table. But even this minimum is our obligation to consider and make decisions that will really increase the resilience of our army, the resilience of our society, which will give us more power and tools to resolve this conflict. Dear friends! We're fighting for our country, we're not giving up, we're winning, we're the only Russian aggression, we're not going to be defeated. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u4	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u5	Oleg Lishko, Radical Party. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, tragic events in Mariupol, Volnovas, Donetsk, other towns and villages of our Donbas, which today is under the occupation of the Russian Federation, have shown one clear truth for society: the policy of the peacemaking of the aggressor is always a loss. You can't put an aggressor in your mouth because he'll bite his arm off and take everything. After the Minsk agreements in September, when we stopped attacking when we agreed with Putin's plan, when we decided to break the line of the Donbas chapter, the Russian Federation and its supported terrorists, the traitors used this time for one: to build up their forces, to form an army today, which is more than 30,000 people, it moves on certain areas of the front and threatens to take Mariupol, threatening to take over other cities. Their threats, of course, they talk a lot, but the Ukrainian army is stronger and we won't let them deal with these threats. But in order to win this war, in order to win this world's fight against the Kremlin Antichrist, we must understand Moscow's one very simple thing: I support my colleague Pashinsky's -- only the struggle, only the action, not the declaration, not the declaration, but the struggle and the action. Today, finally, the Supreme Council, one year after the beginning of Russian aggression, finally recognizes Russia as an aggressor. What prevented us from doing this over the course of the year? How long did it take to capture Ukrainian cities? How many people did it take to kill Ukrainian people to determine the obvious thing: that Russia is an aggressor state. And this recognition of the legal fact of the aggressor State is the result of the United Nations Resolution of 1974 and the UN Charter. I call on the Supreme Council to act. Stop talking! Enough to expect our policy of retirement to stop Putin. Putina will stop only force, Putina will stop Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian volunteers, Ukrainian tanks, Ukrainian weapons, and Ukrainian bullets. Who's gonna stop Putin? Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's a secret to what's happening in Ukraine that can't be qualified otherwise than the word war. For a long time, we've watched the Russian Federation provide political, financial and technical assistance to LNR and DNR terrorist organizations in the territory of Ukrainian Donbas. Since August, however, Russian troops have invaded the organization of the so - called Ilovay Cauldron. In recent days, the situation on the front after the total collapse of the DNR and LNR is also characterized by the massive incursion of the organized forces of the Russian Federation. I have in my hands one of the incontrovertible documents that proves this a long time ago: as with the Russian military officer Sergeyev of Dagestan, the Russian Federation's military bill of lading, it's simple, as a balalaika, to make the DNR militia, Sergeyev of Dagestan, but now it's the military bill of DNR. It's the kind of documents that we take from prisoners of war that are organized by the so-called civil war, the so-called NATO Legion, and the other lies that Putin and his satellites are distributing. Today the Supreme Council has to answer that question. Dear colleagues! There is inflation in Ukraine. And the biggest inflation is in words, the words are undervalued. The "Block of Peter Prashenko" is today calling for a concrete action: to accept an application by the Ukrainian Parliament for recognition by the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, to appeal to the parliaments of the world for the military and material support of Ukraine in this war. Because Ukraine is not only fighting with the Russian Federation, Ukraine is fighting for the free world, for the values of freedom and democracy all over the world. We also have to ask the United Nations today to initiate a process of amending the Statute to exclude the aggressor state, which is the Russian Federation of Permanent Members of the Security Council, which is constantly blocking the peace process in Ukraine and around the world. We should also ask the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today to support the Ukrainian Parliament, to recognize Russia as an aggressor state, to recognize the LNR and the DNR as terrorist organizations, and to help the heroic Ukrainian army. I'm sure we'll do it today, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u8	Please, Vitaly Homutinnik, Economic Development, from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, the situation in the country is very difficult and, unfortunately, recent events are only making it worse. That's why today our parliamentary group Economic Development has supported the holding of an extraordinary session and will support all the bills aimed at enhancing the security of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u11	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has recently been like a closed stock company. The most important decisions for the State are made in a culinary manner. Even in the case of an extraordinary meeting, the opposition must learn from its own sources, not from Parliament’s management of the agenda. This is a regular violation of the Rules. And we're tired of counting these violations in two months of the Supreme Council. Members of the opposition are deprived of the opportunity to participate in the development and decision-making process. This is a direct violation of the rights of our voters who voted in favour of the Opposition Block and which we represent in this room. Dear colleagues, in view of the situation in the East of Ukraine, the Opposition Block considers it necessary to make a statement and to accept the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 1847, which we have registered. A military solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine is impossible because there are several million Ukrainian citizens living in the area. Have direct negotiations with the Russian Federation on joint efforts to put an end to the fire in order to ensure peace. To recognize events in the territory of Donetsk, Luhansk region, by actual military action that resulted in the death of thousands of Ukrainians. Taking all measures to restore humanitarian, social assistance to Ukrainian citizens in areas of military conflict is the restoration of social benefits. Reestablish transportation to Donetské region, Luhansk region, with the provision of mechanisms to prevent the commission of terrorist acts. Contact the United Nations for the provision of a United Nations peacekeeping contingent to ensure the peace and security of the population in the zone of military action. Ensure the functioning of Ukrainian media throughout Donetsk, Lugansk. Contact the OSCE, the United Nations, and other international organizations to investigate and identify the perpetrators of all terrorist attacks. Ask foreign nations for immediate assistance to Ukraine to restore the economy affected by military action. The opposition bloc is ready to make every effort to ensure peace and stability in the zone of military action and in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u13	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head, noble lords of colleagues! Ukraine in war. When you say it and you realize it, it's scary! And in war, we're with the ancient enemy of the Ukrainian nation, as this is unusually the case right now, a Russian imperialism that has no soul and has no vision of its neighbor, it has a vision of its property. We must become a mature nation, a nation political and national. And to understand, no matter what the world with us seems to have its own interests and will always protect them, we need to stay together with the enemy and become stronger. The strongest are the people who are now fighting under Debalts. These are the people who are taking 30 prisoners of the Russian Federation this second. At this point these guys are fighting to avoid being surrounded by Debalts. But we still need to be strong, recognizing our inability. We passed the Law in August (not we, the previous authorities – what difference do we make) 1644 on sanctions, where we completely banned trade activity with the Russian Federation. We are unable to obey our own laws. This is not a sign of strength. It's a sign of mimicry in self-deception. So today, in recognition of Russia as an aggressor with respect to Ukraine, we must say to ourselves, honourable deputies, government officials, honourable President. We must act as if we are in a state of war: what we are saying is what we are doing. Today, our delegation to Paris is very difficult. Russian propaganda machines and diplomatically operate on full pairs. And today's position is very important to them. Today, when we make our decision about Russia-aggressors, we must, each of us, create a serious group of people who will speak in every parliament of the world, Europe in order to prove: people in Europe don't know that we are at war, they think we live in civil war. Therefore, the sign of strength is a sign of the support of his soldier, because he is uncared, and that must be said honestly, and that is a sign of telling ourselves the truth. I urge all of us to do this serious and responsible work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies, before. You didn't sign up, I'm sorry. Please, Fatherland, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u15	My fellow Members, I think that today we are taking this important step in the international field of law that allows our country to do the right thing, will allow us, if we do the right thing, to have strong international support at the legal level. The recognition of Russia as an aggressor is not just a statement and it's not just another document that we accept with references to other countries or international organizations. We decide for the first time that, based on General Assembly Resolution 3314, which was adopted back in 1974, we in international law recognize Russia as an aggressor country because it corresponds to 4 out of 7 points that determine who the aggressor state is according to this resolution. Russia is clearly involved in these definitions, i.e. the invasion, the armed attack on the state, another state, and it's also any military occupation, as well as the engagement by the state of armed gangs working in another state's territory. In other words, if we are with you today, relying on a resolution to define Russia as an aggressor, all the mechanisms of the United Nations that are provided for in the 51st, 41st, 42nd Articles of the Charter of the United Nations are included. I want us to do this not only meaningfully, but immediately thereafter to include all the instruments of influence on Russia on the basis of the government, especially the Foreign Ministry, our parliamentary institutions. To that end, after our decision has been made, it will be very exhausting to work and, including at the next session of the International Criminal Court to send special representatives to Ukraine, to gather the necessary evidence with us, and to violate criminal conduct before the International Criminal Court against those individuals in the Russian Federation who are at the helm of this aggression. This is not just our appeal today. In addition, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the monitoring committee has now decided to withdraw from Russia the sanctions that have been provided for in South Africa. It's unacceptable. And that's why our document that we're taking with you now will be announced in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because it will be very cynical if after the events in Mariupoli and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u16	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u17	The towns and villages of Donbas are now in bloody trouble with our citizens, and the Parliamentary Assembly will decide to remove certain sanctions from the Russian delegation. Unacceptable! And so today's unanimous vote will be a powerful signal to the world. So let's do this. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that on 26 January 2015 the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the election of Ukraine's National Deputies on 26 October 2014, namely: Babija Jurija Juriovich is included in the electoral list of the political party People's Front, Lesjuka Jaroslava Vasilovich and Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, which are included in the election list of the party "Block of Peter Prashenko". According to article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national Ukraine, Babi Yuriy Yuriovich, is invited to the rostrum. Please, Mr. People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u19	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I, Yuri Babi, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u20	Thank you. Please welcome to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputy of Ukraine Lesjuk Jaroslav Vasilovich. Lesjuka Jaroslav Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u21	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u22	Congratulations, Mr. People's Deputy. Next. Welcome to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of People's Deputies Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u23	I, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, swear allegiance to Ukraine, commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u24	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. And we have the first question about the statement made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite the reporter, Anna Mikolayevna Hopko, to address the Supreme Council, which colleagues have just spoken about. Please, Hanna Mikolayevna, report to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u25	Dear Ukrainians, dear Head and colleagues! I would like to read an address to the international community, namely, the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, the national parliaments of the world's nations on the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor State. Ukraine remains a military aggression by the Russian Federation, which it carries out among others and through the support and provision of large-scale terrorist attacks. In less than two weeks, more than 50 Ukrainian civilians died as a result of military fires and Russian-supported terrorist attacks in Volnovas, Donetsk, and Mariupoli. The OSCE’s special monitoring mission confirms that the shelling of Mariupol was carried out with territorial terrorists, and the logic of tragic events shows that it is a planned bloody provocation aimed at intimidating the civilian population. These tragic events confirm that Russia and the terrorists supported by it do not want to implement the Minsk Accords, which remain the only internationally recognized basis for a peaceful settlement today. Since the beginning of the aggression at the end of February 2014, the Russian Federation has systematically violated fundamental norms of international law, human rights, including the right to life of Ukrainian civilians who have become hostages of terrorists in the occupied territory of Donbas. The cynicism of Kremlin aggression, which includes the active support of terrorists at the state level, turns the killing of innocent civilians into a common everyday phenomenon. Russia’s involvement in such attacks is evident: the collapse of a civilian passenger aircraft, the tragedy in Volnovas, Donetsk, and Mariupoli. Despite concerted diplomatic efforts in Geneva, norm, and other forms, Russia has not fulfilled its obligations to comply with the universal standards of international law and agreements already reached. Yes, Crimea remains occupied, and the demands of the democratic community regarding the cessation of aggression, the provision of arms, technology and living power by terrorists are ignored by the Kremlin. The good intentions of keeping the door open for a dialogue with the Russian Federation’s leadership only provoke new bloody terrorist acts in Ukraine. In this regard, taking into account the UN Statute and taking into account the provisions of UN General Assembly Resolution 3314 "Definition of Aggression" of 14 December 1974, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recognizes the Russian Federation as a state aggressor and calls upon Ukraine's international partners. [[Applause]] and urges Ukraine's international partners not to allow impunity for crimes against humanity committed since the beginning of Russian aggression against Ukraine. To recognize the Russian Federation as an aggressor state, which fully supports terrorism and blocks the activities of the UN Security Council, endangering international peace and security, and the so-called DNR and LNR to be recognized by terrorist organizations. [[Applause]] Strengthen pressure on the Russian Federation, including through the introduction of new sectoral restrictive measures (sanctions), to stop Russian aggression and force Russian leadership to implement all aspects of the Minsk agreements: stop the illegal occupation of the Crimea, free all hostages and illegally held in the territory of the Russian Federation of Ukrainian Citizens, including a member of the delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Nadia Savchenko. To limit the authorization of the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe until the Russian Federation stops ignoring the international requirements of the democratic community. Providing the necessary military assistance to Ukraine with the aim of strengthening its defence capabilities, humanitarian assistance to the affected civilian population and internally displaced persons, and contributing to the restoration of critical infrastructure in Donbas. We call on the international community to recognize the fact of aggression against Ukraine, the occupation of its territory and to strengthen the requirements for return to international borders, by preventing the creation of a dangerous precedent in the form of a gross violation of the world order and the security system that followed World War II. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u26	Honourable National Deputies, the Declaration was prepared, prepared, signed, and signed by all five leaders of the majority coalition factions. Accordingly, I want to put her to the vote now. I ask all national deputies to return to the hall, all to take their seats. Please, I'm asking everyone to take their seats, national deputies. Secretariat: Invite the National Deputies — An Important Statement! – I think everyone has to figure out what his position is on this matter. So please, I'm asking all the national deputies to take their jobs. People's deputies please take their seats. Can we start the voting procedure? Oh, no? Let's take a minute and get started. Please ask all national deputies to take their jobs. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a decree (registration number 1854) on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has just been announced from the lobby with stylistic and technical rights. Please put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:05:13]] For 271 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I will quickly sign it and send it to all the addressees mentioned in this statement. Thank you, dear fellows, for your position. Next. Draft Decision (registration No. 1852), draft Ordinance amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth February call. This decision is also consistent with all the leaders of the coalition factions. And I give the floor to the reporter, Andrew Volodymyrovich Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we actually have a huge number of issues that need a quick and effective solution. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the Supreme Council's decree to amend the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. The essence of the decision is that we declare the first two weeks of February as plenary sessions, namely, the week from 2 to 6 February and the week from 9 to 13 February. So there's a proposal that we work in plenary mode for two weeks in a row, and then two weeks later, according to our schedule, we work: week 16 through 20 -- in committees, commissions, factions and groups, and week 23 through 27 -- in constituencies with voters. I ask all deputies to support this decision. It was spoken and supported by all the heads of the factions of the coalition, and it's being introduced by all the heads of the factions. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call at number 1852. Please vote. [[13:07:16]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear National Deputies! We've got a question for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. I'm putting it into the agenda and I'm considering the 1840 registration order, but I'd like us to have a look at it. I propose to review the reduced procedure if there is no objection. Let us consider the first reading. I'm betting on the vote on the day-to-day question, registration number 1840, and I'm considering it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. For inclusion in the order of the day’s decree. [[13:08:18]] For 253 1840 - 253, decision taken. It's a day's work. Then I put to the vote to put Bill 1841 into the agenda and to consider the bill 1841 in the agenda. Please vote. I'll look into it. [[13:08:51]] For 247 Thank you. 247, decision taken. 1840. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement, members of the people. No.1840 - consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:09:18]] For 244 Thank you. 244, the decision was taken on a reduced basis. I invite you to the rostrum of Deputy Justice Minister Janchuk Anton Volodymirovich. He reports to the Committee’s secretary on law enforcement issues, Heratschenko Anton Juriovich. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. Please. Reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u29	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law was developed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the purpose of unification and improvement of the legislative mechanism for the recognition of organizations as terrorist. It is now known that the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act defines responsibility for the terrorist activities of an organization created under Ukrainian legislation or foreign state legislation. Ukraine’s Criminal Code establishes responsibility for the creation of a terrorist group or terrorist organization. At the moment, however, it is necessary to improve the mechanism for the recognition of organizations as terrorist. In general, the bill introduces a procedure for the recognition of an organization as terrorist by decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, by simplified procedure, for the existence of evidence of terrorist activity by the organization. The bill also provides for the possibility of recognition of a terrorist organization as decided by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine if the terrorist activities of the organization have led to crises that threaten Ukraine's national security. We are convinced that the adoption of the bill will create effective tools to recognize as terrorist both officially created and registered organizations and self-proclaimed entities that actually engage in terrorist activities. At the same time, in view of the considerable social resonance of the settlement of the issue of the recognition of terrorist organisations, I ask that I support this government initiative, that I continue to adopt this draft law in the first reading, and that I establish a working group, with the participation of the government and parliament deputies, to take a joint and coordinated position. Also in view of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u30	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u31	It is also because Ukraine needs not only an effective national-level mechanism for the recognition of organizations as terrorist, but also a mechanism that will match the best world practice on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, co-reporter Anton Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u33	Dear Head, dear colleagues! This bill is essential for Ukraine. There's no word in his name for "DNR," "LNR," because he's taking decades to get there. Because in the history of our country, it may be necessary to recognize as terrorist not only these two organizations created by Putin but also other terrorist organizations that can be created in the future. The procedure is very simple. The Ukrainian Security Service, with urgent evidence that an organization is a terrorist, applies to the Attorney General. He, in turn, checks the data. He refers to the Supreme Administrative Court, which, by special procedure, determines one working day, evaluates the facts and decides whether the organization is terrorist or not. This will be the basis for turning to the world society to determine these facts at world level. In parallel, this law has a procedure whereby it will give its assessment of the National Security Council, whether there is a terrorist organization or not, and it will be approved by the President's decree. The law is proposed in the first reading. And after completion at the earliest possible date, take it at all. In order not only to accept today’s appeal that these organizations are terrorist but also to legislatively define the procedure for recognizing them as terrorist. We're going to need this very much to catch terrorists all over the world, to make non-grats, as is done by the State of Israel in terms of Hizbollah and other organizations, as the United States and the entire civilized world are doing in terms of Al-Qaida. Let's do that. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two "for", two "against". Is there a need to report two in favour, two in the opposite, or are we now voting on it in the first reading, because that is, yes? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come to the hall. The Secretariat, please invite the National MPs. It's also an important decision. First reading. People's deputies please come to the Supreme Council Hall and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the basis of the first reading (registration number 1840) of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of organisations as terrorist, taking into account the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Oleg Lazyko out of the procedure for a minute. And then Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to inform you that we have a discussion on this bill. And in that version that was put into the room, the Parliamentary Coalition decided not to support it. And we stopped at that, and Justice Minister Petrenko promised to post it under the transcript, but we don't see him here. I'm asking the faction leaders to back it up, repeat it. We agreed that Parliament would recognize organisations as terrorist for the submission of the National Security and Defence Council. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is why we ask for a vote in this way in the first reading, because in accordance with the Rules, we cannot change the substance and philosophy of the law in the second reading. I mean, it's not a secret decision by the Supreme Administrative Court, because that's how I can be recognized as a terrorist, or three judges, but a decision by a parliament that recognizes an organization as terrorist. And our Parliament is ready for these organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u36	Thank you. I take it that's what the deputy minister said? No, it's not. Okay. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u37	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We really agreed on a coalition meeting in exactly the same way that the distinguished Oleg Lazko announced. We will support this bill in the first reading, provided that it will be further worked out so that, according to the Security Council, it is the Supreme Council that recognizes the organization as terrorist, and that the individual belongings of the citizen to this terrorist organization can be determined by the court. Then everything will stand on the legal plane and quickly, effectively, and the main legal act will be the law. Please support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u38	Yeah, that's what I meant when I put it, I wanted to put it to a vote. But please, the Opposition Block, the National Deputy of Germany. And then Anton Heratchenko. Do we need a closing word or, in principle, have we agreed? We're going to vote on everything and then we're going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u39	Respectable colleagues, respected employees and listeners, military personnel, Ukrainian citizens! You are now proposing not just a bill, but two bills which essentially provide for the execution of a court rather than justice. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm answering! I'm answering! I answer, why? Tell me, is there a court in the world that has to decide without sides? And the second is no guilt? [[B in m in s a l in]] The first is an institution of presumption of innocence. Second question, second question. Of course, you can scream, of course you can scream and even try or pull out of the hall, but that's not the point. You will understand what is being proposed is being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u40	Thank you for your position. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote in the first reading a bill (registration number 1840), a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of terrorist organizations, taking into account the proposal made by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, who was on the rostrum, and Oleg Lazko. I'm going to base these proposals on the first reading of the vote, please vote. [[13:19:52]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] The next issue of agenda item 1841 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power on additional measures to ensure the security of the State. I also propose that this bill be considered in a simplified procedure, please support. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[13:20:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. Please report by Andriy Anatolyevich Teteruk, please. He's a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u41	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies, the bill is intended to remedy the situation when under the law on illustration, some officers were released, a high-ranking officer, who are essential for maintaining the security of the state during the time of the Russian Federation’s military aggression. It is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Cleansing of Power on additional measures to ensure the security of the state. This project is designed to avoid a situation where the professional generals who have been released have been released and to preserve the human potential that we need to manage, strategically manage our troops. It is proposed to amend, and article 8 of this law should read as follows: "The prohibition provided for in part three or four of this article shall not apply to senior officers who have held or hold positions in the Ministry of Defence, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in the State Border Service, in the National Guard and other military formations formed under the law, if it is provided for by the need to ensure the security of the State, and under the conditions of satisfaction of the relevant concern in the order defined by this law. The Minister of Defence, the leaders of other military formations have the right to impose, in agreement with the National Security and Defence Committee, a ban on nonapplication to persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. The harassment provided for in paragraph 2 of this article may also be brought to senior officers who have been released from the positions of the Ministry of Defence, the National Guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u42	Please let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u43	Hence, the prohibition set out in part three and fourth of this article has been applied. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the President of Ukraine makes a decision. In the event that a person is satisfied with the matter, he is considered to be not subject to the prohibition set out in articles 3 and 4 of this article. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u44	Thank you. And there was a regulation that the law worked before. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? This amendment will work until the adoption of the basic rights to the Law on the Cleanse of Power, which will be ready in almost two weeks, two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u46	Thank you. Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Ruslan Knyazevich, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u47	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, we were given an appropriate commission yesterday to consider on the committee, although it is more of an object of knowledge than our committee, but of the Committee on Defence and Security, it is according to the law that they are given appropriate powers. I think there's a way to fix this situation. And given that we have a large number of members of the committee now in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we simply cannot physically gather the quorum, so we ask the session room to consider either without our committee or then determine how to be, because the committee has not made any decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, let's write two for, two against. Please. Whoever doesn't take part in the discussion, I'll give you a word from factions and groups. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Who's from the block?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u50	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to report that the majority of the faction leaders have decided to uphold this law on condition that it applies to the special order of appointment of military commanders. This is about: the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff, the National Guard (formerly internal troops), and the Border Guard. All other law enforcement agencies and other bodies are not subject to this law. It is not enough that the President has the right to appoint individual officials of these military units for the submission of the Security Council, which is in agreement with the Parliament's committee. In such an editorial, please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u52	Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Soboljev Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u54	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u55	Colleagues, let's face it, we had a huge discussion about whether we should agree to this decision. Let us agree as a temporary step, but under two arrangements. First. The President of Ukraine will begin to approach this right responsibly. Now we're talking about the opportunity to return: What's the name, what's the name, what's the name, what's the name, what's the name? A great request to the President of Ukraine to return exclusively to those generals who have a bearing on the defence of the country, who have recognition from their comrades and who will pass through our Defence Committee. We agree. And a second offer. We're going to take this as a temporary step, and we don't have an illustration in the country, and it's slowing down, first of all, government power. So we need to rewrite the law so that we can create an independent body of illustration that, beyond the will of the President, the Parliament and the Government, will drive those who cling to their chairs. Before the adoption and creation of this body, let us accept this right of the President and call upon him to exercise this right with great responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u56	I think there is no doubt that the President is extremely responsible for his duties. Dear National Deputies! Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u57	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, political party of the Opposition Block. Well, it's kind of strange that we have a billing job: there's no planning in the approach of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, and basically, "like Philip out of the hemp." It turns out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today does not pay attention to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which has declared this law to be non-democratic and that does not meet the European standards of democracy. In addition, everyone was well aware of the work being done on the new edition of this law. Explain to me what is the extreme need for this law today? Moreover, respectable colleagues, laws, they must be absolutely not corrupt. As soon as I read in the law that someone has the right to submit, it shapes the selectivity of the approach. You either have to put everyone at the same level, or you have to exclude everyone from this standard. If an official has the right to make his own judgment on someone's behalf, no, then let's rule out the official, hand over these powers to the President of Ukraine alone, and let these approaches be shaped personally by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would very much ask that we do not legally establish selectivity in approaches to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u58	A radical party, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u59	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support this bill, taking into account proposals made by colleagues Lucenk and Yegor Sobolev. We believe that the illustration in the country should continue because, to this day, in many cities and villages, people see the same regional faces that sit as Janukovich was robbed, and now they continue to rob, and even party tickets haven't changed. In the Kirovograd district, Governor Kuzmenko sits, who voted in favour of the dictatorial laws on January 16. I said, "Why isn't he painted yet?" I'm asking, why is there a Deputy Minister of Transport in the Ministry of Transport sitting in a rowdy "vatnik" coffee? Why do the Ministry of Internal Affairs have those who also need to be enlightened, and so forth? So we don't actually have the Illustration Act today. And we believe that it is not necessary to hide from war but to cleanse the authority of those who have discredited countries and worked for the Yanukovich gang. As far as this bill is concerned. The President is the Commander-in-Chief. The chief commander says that he needs the people he wants to put in the responsible areas to reflect Russia’s aggression. We have no right to deny the Supreme Commander his constitutional powers. If he thinks a person will close the front, he will be responsible. Our task as a parliament is to ensure that this rule of law is not used by the "walkers" so that the President does not resume his office -- and I do not even assume that -- to reinstate those who killed people in Maidan who committed the crimes of Yanukovich. But we need to get the Ministry of Defense to the leadership positions of the military commanders who are able to control and ensure victory over the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u60	Thank you. I have only one correction: Those who killed people should be returned to Ukraine and given life imprisonment. Then it will be justice. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, head of the profile committee, defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u61	To the representative of the opposition, I want to say that there is a war that has been solved by the regime that you have not so long ago, and we must mobilize all our resources and capabilities. And the representative of our coalition, I want to answer the following. Dear friends! You know, of course, you can say beautifully that someone wants a Jaq, Sugar. They're in international search. I'm sure we'll be waiting for them to get to Ukraine and get theirs. maximum punishment. This is about Ukrainian patriots who, with guns in their hands, were protecting our Fatherland and who, unfortunately, we did not foresee in this law. This is Lieutenant General Koval, a Ukrainian patriot, and this is Lieutenant General Vorobyov. Unfortunately, this isn't about the true patriot Major General Greek, who, from the first day on the forerunner, defended our country and kicked out of the service, because that's what we want for a beautiful word. It's not about me. The head of the Sumskie U.V.D. wounded in the field of battle.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u62	Let me finish. Ten seconds, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u63	The medallion of our Order, which we have already illustrated. Dear friends! Lustration is needed. It needs a clear, clear, principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u64	Let me finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u65	In a good way, we need to save ourselves real patriots and give them the opportunity to realize their full potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I think there is no doubt that this should be supported by the system itself and that the changes were announced by Andrew Teteruk, a colleague of ours. So, given what was said in the rostrum by Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich, I'm voting for the 1841 project registration number. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Cleansing of Power on additional measures to ensure the security of the State under registration number 1841, as amended by National Deputy Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich from the rostrum. Please. I would also like to emphasize that the term of these rules will be applied to the complex changes of the Law on the Cleaner of Power. I ask you to put to the vote the amendments and additions voted by the national deputy, Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich, on the basis and in general. Please vote. On the basis and in general. Please vote and please support this bill. On the basis and in general, please support. [[13:35:12]] For 241 Thank you, fellow national MPs. Decision taken. I think it's going to have a positive impact on our defenses. Dear fellow national MPs, we have a few more questions about the inclusion of issues in the agenda. I want to announce. In order of the day. Please, the People's Deputy of Agaphonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. I want to ask you a few questions that are now in the order of the day: we have a list of laws that are meant to be included in the agenda of the day session without making a decision. I want to point out that we have the 3rd number, the 3rd February session will open. And accordingly all the bills that have been registered now will be included in the agenda of this session and will be considered. Now I propose not to include them in the agenda, because we are in breach of procedure. These bills have not passed the committees, so let us respect the Rules. We are meeting today for an extraordinary session to consider issues that are most important to the security of our nation. And despite the fact that there is a very important Law, for example, amending the Military Police Act, which is filed by the Peter Prashenko faction, we still think that we need to follow procedure and we don't need to deal with these issues right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we have 3 questions for inclusion in the agenda. This is 1848, "On the National Guard of Ukraine," this is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase the application of sanctions to licensees for violations of television, radio broadcasting legislation. And the third bill is the draft Military Police Act. Three bills to be included in the agenda without consideration. And by a decision of the coalition council, which took place, as I was informed, this issue should now be voted on. So I would like to consider this possibility of including in the agenda of the daily bill, registration number 1848. And in order, the ones that we have are accounted for. Please determine by voting. Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (for the improvement of the organization and order of operations of Ukraine's National Guard) is only for inclusion in the agenda without consideration. Project registration number 1848. No matter what. Please put to the vote the inclusion in the order of the day in 1848. Integrating into the day’s order without consideration. Please vote. For inclusion in the agenda without consideration. [[13:38:11]] For 226 226, Your Honor, the decision is made. Next. It's a draft of the Military Police Act. Just for getting into the daytime. Project registration number 1805. Just as it was announced by a coalition decision. Please proceed to the day-to-day draft of the Military Police Act. Here's the whole procedure: committee review, et cetera, et cetera. Please vote. About the Military Police (registration 1805), about the inclusion in the agenda. [[13:38:51]] For 218. The decision is not taken. It's not included in the agenda. Next. 1824 is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to increase the application of sanctions to licensees for violations of television and radio broadcasting legislation. For inclusion in the agenda, please determine by voting. For inclusion in the agenda. [[13:39:28]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any point in going back to considering these bills, because they're all going to be included in the agenda of the 3rd day, as our colleague said, but at the same time I had to put to the vote. Dear colleagues, the next question is that we have a draft draft for the second reading (registration number 1762). As I understand it, the table is not given out and is not ready for consideration in the second reading. Please, I would like to invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please be the first deputy head of the Palamarchuk Committee. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Do we have the first deputy head of the committee? Dear colleagues, we have another bill to submit to the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Dear colleagues, we have a draft law on military and civilian administrations. There is an offer to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Would you like to give us some information on that? Please, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich. 1855.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u70	Yuri Vitaliovich, one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. There is an extremely important bill that the Council of Coalition has agreed upon. I'm asking you to listen to the reporter. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this is really a law that has long come to light and requires life. We know that two thirds of the freed Ukrainian land of Donbas is in a difficult situation by the administrative authorities. A specific example. The Luhansk District Council does not actually exist. Deputies have either fled or are hiding in temporarily occupied territories. Its economic functions, such as the archduke, the archenegro, are not performed by anyone else. That's why the President of Ukraine initiated it, and the leaders of the coalition faction supported the decision to introduce civil-military administrations. What does that mean? In places where there is no mayor, there are no deputies, there is no advice that their functions will be carried out temporarily before the election, following the President's orders, at an appropriate level of government administration. This means the introduction of the useful element of the state of war that society requires of us. There will be patrols on the streets, serious life - sustaining enterprises will be taken under administrative control, and eventually the liberated portion of Donbas will feel the fullness of Ukrainian state authority. I ask you to support this bill, which restores order and authority in the freed territory of Donbas. It is temporary for the election to be introduced by the military and civilian administrations of the President in the respective territories. Thank you for your attention. Please support the coalition faction's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard the information of Yuri Vitaliovich. An extremely important law under 1855, and I will now put it to the vote to put it into the agenda. I ask you to support this issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Military and Civil Administrations Act. Please vote. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:44:43]] For 242 Decision taken. All right, daytime's on. I'm sending him in on a procedure to consider this bill. Let's vote on the basis? Based on what? There is no unity, I understand, in this matter. Dear colleagues, I don't agree with you. So let's not create any problems with this bill that's very important, we're going to consider the third number. And this will be completely objective. Thank you, Your Honor, he's in the day-to-day. As far as Bill 1762 is concerned. Do we have the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Affairs? None. Thank you. Do we have the Palamarchuk People's Deputies? Yeah, we are. 1762. Please, Anton Gerashchenko, 1762.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, let's speak plainly, we have a problem and a question with discipline on the front. We must do everything we can to ensure that military discipline is established on the front. War is won by those who fight more disciplinedly. As long as our warriors are even more disciplined, they win. But there is a question. Thus, draft laws of 1762 were designed to reinvigorate the system of military discipline so that military leaders could punish those soldiers who failed to perform their duties. So this bill is very important for maintaining discipline on the front. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u74	Please stand by the factions, please. First Deputy Head of the Committee is Palamarczuk, National MP, on Bill 1760.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u75	Honorary colleagues, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the responsibility of military personnel, granting additional rights and responsibilities to commanders during a special period (registration number 1762), was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 15, 2015 by Ukrainian national deputies Teteruk, Pasinski, Breza. On the same day, on 15 January 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Enforcement Code, the Ukrainian Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, the status of the internal service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Status of the garrison and guard services, the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Status of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, with the aim of increasing the responsibility of military personnel for violating military discipline to ensure the rule of law and military discipline in the Armed Forces. In accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deadlines for making proposals and order. The bill by law-makers ended on January 29, 2014, at 6 p.m. In this regard, the committee deals only with proposals that have already come to the committee. However, the final comparative table to the bill is not yet ready, as the proposals continue to come. The bill committee received 4 proposals from the Ukrainian national deputy, Stotnik Olena Sergiyivni, and 7 proposals from the Ukrainian national deputy Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. So I would like to ask the chairman to give a little more time to consider this bill in the session room so that all of the country's designated national deputies, the authors of the proposals, can make a clear statement on their proposals and amendments. After that, we made a responsible decision on every proposal and voted on the bill in the second reading and in general. I will also point out that, as a result of the appeal made by the Committee to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Petrenko and the Minister of Defense of Poltarak, there was no response to their offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u76	Thank you. There's a very good suggestion for more time to consider this issue to prepare tables as it should be. Let's consult with you, there are two suggestions: we can move it to the next plenary week, which will take place on Tuesday; or we will now have a call for proposals, and we will have more than two hundred, as well as announcements. This may be the time for the committee to meet. That's why. No amendments are available. Okay. Then we'll carry it. Dear friends, we're transferring it to the hearing, and I'm giving the task of preparing this bill for next plenary week. Is it accepted? All of it. Then we postpone the consideration to the next plenary week. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, we are about to move on to the announcement of requests and announcements that have come to the Supreme Council. And last time we didn't announce them, and there are important issues of national MPs. That is why I invite the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce the requests of the national deputies and the announcements of Oxana Ivanovna Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, according to the circumstances, may I have your attention, please? - first of all, the announcement. In accordance with article 60, marking one of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the Interfractional Union of the People's Republic. The heads of the Interfractional People's Union of the People's Republic of Ukraine have been elected: Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, Sukhevich Yuria-Bogdan Romanovich, Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich, Igorovič, Igorovna Also in accordance with article 60, marked one of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "European Kharkishina" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional parliamentary association "European Kharkivščina" was elected National Deputy of Ukraine Kobcev Mikhail Valentinović. Also in accordance with article 60, marked one of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Hersonschina in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Interfractional Union of Hersonian Rebirth was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich. And also in accordance with article 60, marked 1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Kyiv" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the co-chairs of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Kiev" elected the national deputies of Ukraine Novak Natalija Vasilovna and Lucenka Igor Viktorovich. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-27-m0.u78	Honorable national MPs, first-line requests and announcements were just now. The announcements have just been announced, and according to the procedure, I want to thank you for your work, for the urgency of the meeting, and for the adjournment of the Supreme Council. The next plenary meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Thank you. I declare the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
