ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we occupy jobs, we prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. We're going to run the registration now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I understand that the meetings are now closed. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare to register. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Please. I'm asking you to include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:13:14]] Dear colleagues, 343 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you all very much for the most constructive position on the processing of all necessary documents. Today we have an extremely responsible day, perhaps an extremely responsible time. But I want to call on all of us to be as responsible as possible, because in the daytime, there is hardly a perfect solution. And it's clear that every decision can be judged differently. But I want to reconsider that and ask you to think about it, that the failure to make decisions that are determined by the order of the day poses many risks to our state. That's why I'm counting on a completely constructive position today by the members of the Supreme Council, regardless of the MP factions, the groups, the non-fractional MPs. Because we have to be responsible first and ensure that decisions are made to stabilize the situation in our country, to continue our cooperation with international financial institutions. I believe that this priority, the stability itself, should be a key one and should be a priority that should unite us with you today. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, please, before I do. We prepare for the oath, I have a statement to announce the break and replace it with a statement. Oleg Lazko please, three minutes. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! We all see the situation on the eastern front getting worse in the last day. The enemy of the last days has taken over the settlements of Cominternov, Zaichenko, Vodov. According to intelligence, a number of other locations are under threat of Russian terrorist attacks. So to ignore this situation, to sharpen, to restore actual warfare, to capture Ukrainian population sites, is to commit a crime. And I'm surprised why the enemy takes over Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian citizens, and we all keep our mouths shut. That's why I'm addressing the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, demanding that the Radical Party faction convene immediately meetings of the National Security and Defence Council to analyse the situation on the eastern front, to produce actions that will enable the enemy to stop the attack. Because it's a failure to implement the same Minsk agreements that you're always referring to. The Radical Party faction has repeatedly claimed that the Minsk Accords are a stillborn child of the so-called compromise of European politics, that terrorists, Putin, are not going to carry out any Minsk agreements. And the excitement, I emphasize, while you and I are here in Parliament, taking away from the real life, from the people, we are fighting, the enemy has captured three settlements: Cominternov, Zaichenko, Vodjan. How much more must it take for the villages and cities to finally resist? In fact, Mariupol is on the line of direct mortar strike. Of course, today, Mariupol is well protected, and we have, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament to do everything to protect not only Mariupol, but every Ukrainian post. That's why I'm asking the President, the National Security Council, for an immediate government! - the use of measures to stop an aggressor who's been reinstated lately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of the country, as the Supreme Commander, the Ministry of Defence, the Council of National Security and Defence, is faithfully carrying out his duties, and I am convinced that all matters are under control today and that adequate response measures are being taken. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear fellow national MPs, please take our seats. We have two national deputies who will now take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And after that, respectable colleagues. Or let's now vote on the issues that we have just discussed at the faction meeting of factions and parliamentary groups to continue working towards the exhaustion of the agenda, namely the adoption of the budget directly. So that we can finish our work with the adoption of the budget. Please, now I'm going to put a vote in order to focus everyone on the job. Colleagues, please support this proposal. Colleagues, there's a proposal next, to finish our work today, order the day through a direct budget. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. I will now put to the vote the proposal to continue our work until the adoption of the 2016 State Budget. Please vote on this proposal. I understand it's probably going to be a signal right now, because not all of them are still focused on voting. No, no. I think we're putting off the signals right now. It's just that if we don't get it, I'm going to make another offer. That's an offer. Please take your seats, colleagues! Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Consuming the agenda, completing our working day with the adoption of the State Budget Act. Vote! Please support everyone. [[10:23:29]] For-195 Colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, please continue our work until the adoption of the 2016 State Budget. Please support all of you with this proposal. Vote? Take your seats. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:25:00]] For 211 That's better. That's better. Take your seats. Ready? Please, colleagues. We vote on the continuation of the work until the state budget is adopted. Vote? Colleagues, we're all voting, please. Vote. Please support everyone. [[10:25:56]] For 225 Let's do it again. Vote? Ready? We vote on the proposal to continue our work until the issue of order is exhausted. Vote. Completion of budget, budget, budget. [[10:26:32]] For 232 Thank you. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. That's right. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable People's Deputies, December 23, 2015 Central Election Commission. Attention! It's hard to say when everyone's talking at the same time. On December 23, 2015, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the election of Ukraine's National Deputies on October 26, 2014, namely: Vadim Ivanovich, a member of the political party's election list "National Front", and Tetjan Leonidivna, a member of the election list of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, namely, is invited to the rostrum. Colleagues, now the Ukrainian national deputy, our colleague, will take an oath. I have one question. How would you take an oath, would you like it to be noisy in the hall, or would you like it to be quiet? That's what I understand, quiet. That's why I'm asking respect for my fellow deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you to stop talking right now, please. Please. Please give me the opportunity to invite our fellow national deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make an oath. Maxim Yuriovich! Maxim Yuriovich! Your colleague is on a faction right now, I hope, will make an oath. Please be quiet. Please. Andrew Volodymyrovich, may I? Thank you. Thank you. Please welcome to the rostrum of Vadim Ivanovich Podobraznjak, Ukrainian National Deputy, the National Front political party for the formation of an oath. Attention and quiet, please. Borislav Solomonovich! Borislav Solomonovich! I know it's you, it's just you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to the people of Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u7	Welcome to your office. To make an oath to the rostrum, Tetjana Leonidovna Yuzkova is invited. Please, Aunt Leonidina. Please, Auntie Leonidova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u8	Thank you. I swear allegiance to the people of Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National deputy of Ukraine, Yuszkov Tetjana Leonidivna
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u9	Welcome, Aunt Leonidovna! Success in Your Work! An oath, please. I swear to God, you're the flowers. Thank you. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we begin our consideration of matters of the order of the day. And there is a proposal for our consideration of the draft Law 3704 (Governmental) amending the Law on External Economic Activity of Ukraine (for granting authority to the Government to apply adequate economic measures to the aggressor State). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please be supportive. Vote. Short-term review procedure. [[10:32:19]] For-191 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. He will report on the draft law, Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u10	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine asks members of the Ukrainian Parliament to accept amendments to the Foreign Economic Act. It was in this Parliament that the Political Association Agreement and the Free Trade Zone with the European Union were ratified. The Russian Federation has been working for a long time to fight Ukraine not only through military financial measures but also through economic pressure and economic influence. The main objective of the Russian Federation was to prevent the free trade zone from becoming effective between Ukraine and the European Union. During this year, we held dozens of consultations in Brussels, along with our European partners, inviting relevant representatives of Russia to implement the Free Trade Agreement. I can clearly state that Russia's goal was not to settle economic issues, rather than allow the Treaty on the Free Trade Area to become effective, not to allow Ukraine to become part of a great European economic space. That's Russia's target. As well as not allowing Ukrainians to gain visa-free treatment. Because the visa-free regime and the free trade zone with the European Union are real European integration, this is real progress in Ukraine towards the European Union. In response to our lengthy consultations, Russia was expected to impose a trade embargo on Ukrainian goods that would take effect on January 1, the following year. This is not the first step of the Russian Federation in terms of Ukrainian goods that block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u11	Finish it, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u12	This is not the first decision of the Russian Federation, but the systemic pressure of Russia over the past 10 years on Ukraine for the purpose of preventing the Ukrainian economy from developing and for the purpose of continuing the pressure on Ukraine with all possible means. However, these Russian decisions have been and will be answered in a dignified way by the Ukrainian side. Over the last three years, we've reduced our dependence on Russia three times. If the export volume of Ukraine to the Russian Federation was about 35 percent three years ago, today we have reduced threefold the dependence on the Russian market, which is only 12 percent. The law we ask to adopt is the following. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will take similar restrictive measures against the Russian Federation in the case of the adoption of this law on January 1st of next year. We will protect Ukraine's internal market. In particular, I would like to point out that only Russia has declared its exit from the free trade zone. Moreover, this claim is illegal and does not conform to international treaties. Neither Kazakhstan nor Belarus made such a statement. That is why Russia will receive an answer from the Ukrainian government in the form of a trade embargo and mirror sanctions against Russian goods. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, this is Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, head of the committee of profile. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On December 23, the Economic Policy Committee considered Bill 3704. And you know that to the country of Ukraine, which our country is already a member of the WTO, the aggressor country is being subjected to inadequate measures to import duties into goods originating in Ukraine. Of course, Ukraine, as a member of the WTO, must respond immediately to similar actions by the aggressor country. And so the National Deputies, members of the Economic Policy Committee, understanding the urgent need for the State to make rapid adequate decisions, have decided to recommend and ask you to adopt the bill as a basis and, in general, to give the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to establish adequate, appropriate actions towards the aggressor country. I very much ask everyone to support this bill independently of who the faction is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Alan Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u17	Alona Shkrum. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u18	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, well, what we're offered with this law, I'm going to read, "The government is given the right to take action in response. In response to discriminatory acts against Ukraine by the aggressor state." Let's just remember, colleagues, for almost two years Russia has been aggressive against Ukraine. It'll be almost two years soon. During this time, Russia has taken numerous measures against us. Look, two more years ago, this was September 19, 2014, was the introduction of myths into Ukrainian goods. Since January 1, a year ago, they had banned our agricultural production from Russia. Now by decree of the President and literally two days ago, the State Duma actually suspended the agreement between Ukraine on a free trade zone. What did we do this time, colleagues? Where are our sanctions that we really gave the government the right to do? So why are we one step at a time late? We take action in response, we let them be ahead, we don't do anything on our own, we don't have a strategy. I demand that the government simply provide us with all the information about the sanctions they have the right to impose, which the Supreme Council has given them the right to introduce for almost a year now, about what is actually done, about the verification of Russian banks, Russian enterprises, about how Russia is effectively destroying our agricultural production, our business and what we are doing in response and why we are late one step at a time. I'll remind you that Ukrainian banks, colleagues, are closing down, and Prominestbank, where 99.5 percent are owned by Russian banks, and Mr. Medvedev himself, the head of the Supervisory Board, works well, colleagues. The Russian Sberbank works great. What are we doing? Why does the government not apply sanctions, not in response, but in advance? Why do we not have a strategy to protect our nation? And I'm asking the government simply to report everything that's been done and what has been applied, including in international courts, what lawsuits have been filed, and how do we protect, at last, when we start protecting the state? Unfortunately, this is the style of leadership of our nation when we only do everything in response to the delay of a year, by two and by three. And that, of course, is a disgrace! Although we will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u19	Yuri Solovay. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, a respected government! Indeed, the purpose of Ukrainian power is not aggression against any country, but protection, protection of our manufacturer, protection of our market, protection of Ukraine. And in this context, it is extremely important that, as my colleague correctly pointed out, we are late, but today we are going back to the topic of how to protect our market against Russia's economic aggression. But, dear colleagues, please note that the Russian Federation has declared its decision long enough. And the Ukrainian business is in an absolutely shocking state, not understanding how it's going to work on January 1. And the government didn't have any business meetings, it didn't explain anything, it didn't propose any action plans on how to work the Ukrainian business, which is actually very much involved after 23 years of our previous history in this particular market. Similarly, the government, respected colleagues, has done absolutely nothing in the public domain regarding the clarification for our business, which will take place on January 1, when the free trade zone with the European Union will fully enter. And it is wrong that we do not have a serious public lobbyist there to explain the subject. That's why we urge you, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich, to give a special commission to the Minister of Economics that it is his direct duty to get involved in this public story now, to tell, to kick out new markets for our businessmen, so that the free trade zone becomes a positive, not a red-hot risk to the Ukrainian business. And we really want to thank our friends from this rostrum: Belarus, Armenia and Kazakhstan, who did not support the economic war against Ukraine. Thank you. We will vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u22	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, of course, I'm glad that we have a government that's woken up a little bit and even though it realizes that we actually have a war with the Russian Federation and we can't import goods from the Russian Federation. But with such half decisions, you can't really properly assess the whole problem of the situation, because that decision only makes it possible. Allows the government to impose appropriate sanctions. Instead of the Freedom Bill 3213, registered six months ago in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the embargo on imports of goods obtained in the customs territory of the aggressor State, where we clearly propose in the bill. The law suggests that no goods today and services should be imported from the Russian Federation, except for certain cases permitted by the PNDP, if this is necessary. Such decisions should be made, not half the decisions. Because we have a war! War, not ATO, if anyone forgets it. You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u23	Please, Ostap Semerak. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, of course, this bill of government needs to be supported. But for my coalition faction colleagues, I would like to say that there is now a sanctions regime that was adopted by the last Supreme Council, and on September 11, 2014, it came into force. On the same day, the Ukrainian government approved the entire sanctions package and sent the procedure established by law to the National Security and Defence Council and to the approval of the President's decree. The Ukrainian government did everything possible in 2014 on the first day after the entry into force of the Sanctions Act. The other thing is why this procedure through the NSA and through the President's decree went through the year, let's think about it. And I think this law just allows other tools for the Ukrainian government to react faster so that it doesn't wait a year for the procedure to go by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u25	Thank you. The discussion was concluded, dear colleagues. Please, the closing word. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u26	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! After your speeches, I'd like to inform you something else, because I understand that MPs are involved in legislative activities and are not always looking after what the Ukrainian government is doing. What has been done in the last two years against the aggressor state, namely the Russian Federation. The Ukrainian government had introduced the Ukrainian Sanctions Act to Parliament. For the first time in Ukraine’s history, a sanctioning mechanism was developed. Last September the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a list of sectoral and individual sanctions against the Russian Federation. The National Security and Defence Council imposes sectoral and individual sanctions on several hundred Russian companies and individuals by decree of the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian government has filed several appeals to the European Court of Human Rights against the Russian Federation for illegal annexation of Crimea. In particular, the illegal annexation of Crimea was condemned by the United Nations Resolution of 100 States. State companies are suing the Russian Federation for damages. NAC Naftogaz Ukraine filed two lawsuits with the Stockholm Arbitration Court, both on a gas contract and on a contract for the transit of natural gas to Ukraine. In fact, we gave up Russian gas monopoly in Ukraine. Ukraine has closed the air space for all Russian airlines and Russian aircraft. Ukraine sued the World Trade Organization against the Russian Federation, and this dispute began. Ukraine also holds Russia accountable at the UN International Court of Justice for violating the Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. And this is just one tenth of the list that this government has made to protect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u28	Please, Your Honor. Oleg Easy, one minute. The faction did not participate in the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u29	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction supports this bill. We will vote in favour of the law that imposes symmetrical sanctions against the Russian Federation, which has imposed these sanctions on our country, which our producers first suffer. But I have a question for the government, for the President, for the National Security Council. What are these sanctions when Russian banks, Russian oligarchs, belonging to Ukrainian olenergosin, Babakov, Wexelberg, Friedman, and all other Russian oligarchs who are laundering billions of dollars from the Ukrainian state continue to work in the Ukrainian market? Where are those sanctions, why do these sanctions not apply to Russian oligarchs who are close to the present authority? Because the Russian oligarch Grigorishin is the partner of today's leaders! His appointed man is Minister of Energy Demchisin. So, if the sanctions go to everyone! And above all, to the Russian oligarchs who are robbing our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u30	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear fellow national MPs! 3704. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity (for the approval of the Government to apply adequate economic measures to the aggressor State) (registration No. 3704). Take your seats, dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please. Ready? 3704 as a basis and as a whole we vote, dear colleagues. Vote. [[10:50:33]] For 291 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, I have received a statement from two factions -- "The will of the people" and "The Opposition Block" -- regarding the announcement of a 30-minute recess application. Please, 3 minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u31	Dear Head, Reverend Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues! I was forced to come to this rostrum by the demand of the participants of the action that led it yesterday under the Cabinet of Ministers and under the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the so-called "Prisoned". What are you talking about? People from all over Ukraine are concerned that the 2016 budget provides less than 50 percent of funding for drug purchases. So more than half of the people, in one way or another, are destined to die. I have to remind you that 1,600 people die every day because of a lack of medicine in Ukraine. Socially sensitive diseases, such as tuberculosis, are at risk of death. I have to tell you that, for example, the treatment of patients with viral hepatitis is funded by less than 10 percent, and the same standard remains for the following year. Only 24.8 people infected with HIV will receive the necessary treatment. 74 percent of autistic children are left without treatment. In fact, if these drug purchases are approved, oncosa patients will receive only 6 percent of the medicine. The same applies to the treatment of patients with child hepatitis, which is 8 percent. In fact, these are killer figures that show that today we need to review the statistics and make appropriate changes. And another eloquent fact is that more than 9 percent of Ukrainians are infected with hepatitis C, and it's about 0.13 in Europe. How we will be allowed to enter Europe with such socially dangerous diseases. I'd like to ask your colleagues to give us an overview of the article on funding for drug purchases. And the last. Using the presence of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I am referring to the fact that local self-government agencies set huge wages for self-government workers, ranging from 16, 18, 20 and more. Obviously, we have to make a decision to limit these figures, because we're transferring everything to the local budget, and that's where they decide to set their wages. It's, by the way, the responsibility of the deputies that we talked about yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been introduced with draft law registration number 3564 – draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015 (as regards the terms of the loan to the Project "Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants"). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote. Short-term procedure. This is a review of the reduced procedure. [[10:54:39]] For 171 Thank you. Please, the decision has been made. Minister of Energy Demchishin, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, I suggest you consider the changes to the state budget for 2015 as part of the guarantee of the debt of Ukrhydroenergo under the rehabilitation of hydroelectric power stations. Hydro stations are currently producing about 10 percent less than 10 percent of electricity in Ukraine. It's pretty cheap and relatively clean electricity that we use to close peaks, peaks in the energy system. Most of the stations were built in the middle of the last century. So at the moment, they've been working on their regulatory deadlines of exploitation and they're demanding rehabilitation and modernization. Arrangements were reached with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with the European Investment Bank. This is 200 million euros from the European Investment Bank and 200 million from the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These costs, in addition to their own funds, will be used to modernize several hydropower plants. It's Kyivska, it's Kanivska, it's Dniprodyrynska, Dnipro-1, Dnipro-2, which is basically almost all of the cascade, the Dniprovska hydrostation cascade. Costs were allocated in 2011 to 200 million. At the moment, there is a need to change the terms of credit, to extend the lending period to 180 million euros by 2021, to increase the sampling period, to increase the debt period and also to increase the recovery period – by 2031 This is primarily advantageous for the "Hydro" and also for Minfin, because these costs will be spent on the "Hydro" that will be used from its own resources rather than from resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Andrew Gordieev, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! This is a technical transaction involving the transfer from government debt directly to the guaranteed government debt of this credit transaction. On the Committee on Budget Questions, we considered this issue and came to the next conclusion. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3564 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals to Chapter I of the bill, as set out in the committee's conclusions. Accordingly, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority in the drafting of the relevant law, should the bill be adopted, should it be accompanied by the necessary editorial and technical clarifications relating to the committee's decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u36	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Please, Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u37	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, as will all the bills related to the development of renewable energy sources and those that will make Ukraine energy independent. But I have a question like this. Why the loan agreement in 2015 planned to include 500 million dollars in the development of renewable energy sources, but according to the treasury data, only 7.7 million, which is one and a half percent of the annual plan, were left behind in 9 months. The situation is similar in previous years. In 2014, 200 million dollars were planned and only 16 percent were left. So we're developing, we're restoring energy, so we're fighting for energy independence. And it's the development of renewable energy, the reduction in energy consumption that's the fight against the aggressor, that's the appropriate measures, not the bills that we've just adopted. The government says they've diversified the energy supply, but we haven't done anything to reduce its consumption. Just because our industry has fallen, the government declares it to be a very great achievement. And this room has yet to hear things about the signed Paris agreement signed last month, and this is really going to change the world order in general into an international economic relationship. The words "decarbonization," the words "low carbon development," "circular economy development" don't sound in this room and it doesn't sound in this government. This is what we need to do, not just to promote the development of renewable energy sources. The Fatherland faction will vote for this and we propose that the government take more care of energy consumption in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u38	Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Honourable deputies, after the Chernobyl disaster, all of us have witnessed that nuclear - related energy is very and very dangerous, especially as a result. Moreover, the consequences of using the nuclear power plant will be a heavy financial burden on our country, not for decades, but for hundreds and thousands of years. So the main focus in our country is on the development of alternative energy, renewable energy, clean energy. It is the energy of wind, light, and energy of rivers, tides, and tides. This will first give us a clean, clean future for our country, which our land needs very and very much. One second. Hydropower, especially small rivers, is the most profitable, least expensive, and electricity is the cheapest, especially after the end result. But the main thing about all of these is that we're going to be replacing traditional energy, which is replacing the heat plants that we're using. In particular, we will reduce energy dependence on Russia. So is nuclear fuel, which we also buy abroad. So, on the other hand, it's like energy, it's reducing energy dependence on Russia, it's greening, and it's like the economy of the budget. So I ask you all to support this bill, and in harmony with all peace, to begin the development, the restoration of hydropower, especially on the cascading of small rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u40	Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, First Deputy Justice and Legal Policy Committee. First, our faction explicitly and unanimously supports this bill as necessary for the Ukrainian State. Secondly, there's another bill that's extremely, very big to adopt today. In fact, it's about life and death for our patriots, it's about Bill 3328, where we have to assign judges who are patriots who went from the occupied terrorists to Ukraine and were attached to the Ukrainian courts, according to the Fair Court Act, who today are unable to survive, who have no possibility to exist, because the Fair Court Act has attached them to them for six months. The six months ended in September, and today these people are in suspended condition, since the law forbids them to receive other incomes, except as a salary for a judge’s office, and they do not receive a salary from September. We have no right to go into a new year, leaving these people at their leisure, leaving them alone with this hopeless situation and driving them into a violation of the laws, turning these patriotic judges, who today are some of the few, 72 of them in the territory of Ukraine, turning them either into beggars or criminals, because the law and the legislature are not able to solve their questions until the new year. Mr. Head, I've been asking this question for more than a week. I'm asking you a lot because tomorrow we won't be able to vote it out, today we'll put it in the agenda, of course, after the budget laws, but we'll give Parliament the opportunity to repay our patriot judges and give them the opportunity to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I ask those who speak to follow the Rules, namely, to speak on the matter under consideration. Thank you. Please, Vladimir Gusak, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u43	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the very discussion of this bill today demonstrates the ineffective organization of government and parliament. Let me remind you that today is December 24, 2015. And we're looking at a bill on budget changes for 2015. Last year, on December 29th, we adopted, Parliament passed a very low-quality Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, and throughout the year, we are making changes to this budget. Perhaps a few more years will pass, and we will be making changes to the 2015 budget. And unfortunately, we don't want to learn anything. Again today we are going to adopt an insecure budget, while it is not clear why this year the budget could not be brought to Parliament in time and normally worked on it. As far as this bill is concerned, once again the adoption of the 2015 budget changes on 25 December 2015 makes no practical sense. That's why the opposition block faction won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u44	Please give me a minute, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention to the government, because the government bill, my friends, on such delicate issues is still to be accepted with the environmental component of this document. You write here that there is no question of the functioning of local self-government, of the rights and interests of the territorial communities, of the local, of the regional level, it doesn't apply to anything, it doesn't affect anything. Friends, to go and see what protests are taking place during the construction and reconstruction of these hydroelectric plants, you would realize that unfortunately it also affects local communities. So I'd like to think as much about this environmental component as possible, and I'd like to conduct public hearings, and I'd like to explain, for example, in Kanev, what we're doing at the Canow hydroelectric power plant to take a look at the questions from the local community. And that's why, Vladimir Vasilovich, I support, but with a warning of the serious support of local communities in implementing this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u46	Thank you. The proposal is absolutely correct; it is necessary to keep in constant contact with the community. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The discussion is over. This is a draft law in the context of the interaction between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, Your Honor, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. 3564. Please, National Deputy Hirschfeld. Wait a minute. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u47	Anatoly Girschfeld, "The will of the people." Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I mean, the bill is important. Especially in terms of Ukraine's energy independence. But it is equally important that the entire machinery complex of Ukraine be involved in the implementation of this project, and the money was not transited, and we did not buy the Simens, something else, and there is no added value in Ukraine. And by going back to the previous bill, unfortunately, you didn't let our group say 3704. There must be an economic strategy in which we must look at how to respond to Russia's sanctions, especially with regard to the import of Russian supplies, because, unfortunately, many state-owned enterprises continue to supply today. Make changes to the public procurement procedure. Then, indeed, those sanctions that we have voted on with you will be effective. Please submit this matter to the protocol and instruct the professional ministries to develop the relevant ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u48	Finish up, please, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u49	I'll do it again. I request that, under the protocol, professional ministries be instructed to develop a provision for the additions to this Law 3704, where amendments to the State Procurement Act will be made, which are in the section of Law 3704 in the plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Thank you. Then I'd like to request an assignment from the Ministry of Profiles to include the National Deputy Hirschfeld in this work. In general, I think one of the main priorities for the next year is to restore our economic potential. We do. We need to do everything we can to create the right conditions for stimulating domestic and manufacturing, and here we need to combine all efforts, including cooperation with our international partners. Please, Vladimir Demchikin, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! Thank you so much for your questions and recommendations. All will be accounted for. And discussions with local councils on improving infrastructure and environmental impact are being held. And Minecology was involved in agreeing to this law. Regarding local manufacturers, I want to say that, for example, 80 percent of the investments were made in Dniestrów’s GAES using Ukrainian equipment. It's also Turboat, Electric Tavern and other Ukrainian businesses. Similarly, the rehabilitation of other hydro stations takes place exclusively on the basis of Ukrainian equipment. In addition, we're looking at a project of Kanów and Kakhov hydroelectric power plants that will be built over the next few years. This is also Ukrainian equipment, a priority in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. I think that at the beginning of the next session we have to have a comprehensive plan for the recovery of the national economy, and this is a fundamentally important issue. And I think it should unite all the MP factions and groups. This should be a very clear and clear plan that should be developed in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Professional Committees and Parliamentary Deputies. Colleagues, the bill of Law 3564 on the terms and conditions of credit for the hydropower rehabilitation project has been put to your vote. The discussion is over. There is a proposal to vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Ready? Vote, fellows! Vote! [[11:13:02]] For 285 The law's been passed. High-level colleagues, 3657, are still preparing the proposal committee. 3656, draft Decree amending the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Please, Paul Pinzenik. Any changes, any additions? Paul Pinzenik, please. Are there changes and additions? Please, Paul Vasilovich, we will now vote on this decree. Please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u53	Comrades, good afternoon! This is Bill 3656, introduced by the people's deputies Gorbunov, Ishtejkin, Gordjeev. The draft regulation proposes that the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be extended until February 1, 2016. So on January 15th, we're going to have an hour of questions to the government, a plenary meeting, an announcement about the closing time of the session. Between January 18th and January 29th, there was a voter's job. The committee noted that recently, if the session was extended, the closing of the current session would take place before the opening of the next session and the same plenary day. And in this context, we're going to suggest in paragraph 1 that you substitute 1 into 2. Furthermore, in paragraph 2, the words "mission notice" should be deleted. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider a draft with observations and determine how to vote. I will also point out that, according to the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth call from 28 to 11 January 2016 will include the work of national deputies with voters and committees. Therefore, if it is necessary to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting. The head of the Supreme Council may convene such a meeting during this period in accordance with the provisions of part eight of article 19. That is, at the request of either 150 deputies or three MP factions or five committees. I also pay attention to the national deputies and to the stenographers. That from the national deputies of Ukraine, representatives of various parliamentary factions and groups came proposals for a change in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in January 2016. That is, it is suggested in paragraph 2 of the draft decision to see: a week from 11 to 15 January working on committees, commissions, factions, groups; a week from 18 to 22 January working on Ukrainian national deputies with voters, and a week from 25 to 29 January plenary sessions. And in the light of these changes, I ask you to determine how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, as we conducted consultations, this decision is determined. Colleagues, taking into account Paul Pinzenik’s suggestions from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put the draft decree to the vote. Ready? Draft Decision on the calendar plan (3656) with the suggestions and additions of Paul Pinzenik. Ready? Please take your seats. We also vote on the basis of Paul Pinzenik’s amendments as a whole. Ready? Please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account Paul Pinzenic’s suggestions. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:17:06]] For 232 Actor's been approved. Dear fellow members of the People's Parliament, to take decisions on the issues under discussion, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the balance of budget revenues has been introduced. There is an offer to consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3688. There's a suggestion to consider it as a simplified procedure, but we're not going to be a reporter, a co-rapporteur, limiting it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, I'm asking for a brief motion, but the reporter, the co-rapporteur, I'm not going to limit it, okay? Vote. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. It's a simplified procedure. [[11:18:55]] For 176 Decision taken. Please report 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u55	Please report, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, on December 22, this year, we discussed a government bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure budgetary balance in 2016 (registration number 3688). I'll remind you that just after he had considered it at his meeting and offered to make some changes, I made all these suggestions under the transcript. During this time, proposals for this bill with the Government, the MPs, the National Deputies have continued to be reconciled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to balance the budget revenues and eliminate the differences in the bill. As a result of this work, there are such additional proposals for a bill, which in some positions corrects even those that I heard on December 22. The first section of the excise tax. It is proposed to increase excise duty rates on alcohol, distillate alcohol, and alcohol by 50 percent, per beer, per 100 percent, per wine, except for wines of natural grapes, by 100 percent. To supplement the table by sub-paragraph 2153.3.1 with an additional entry with appropriate codes according to the CCW for setting the excise duty on low-alcoholic beverages, alcoholic beverages containing ethyl alcohol from 0.5 per cent to 8.5 per cent vol. units and extractive substances not more than 14 grams per 100 cubic centcm, made on the basis of an ethyl alcohol mixture using semi-alcoholic ingredients and preservatives, whether saturated or not with carbon dioxide, increased by 300 per cent today, i.e. at 211.59 grubins per litre of 1 per cent alcohol. Next. At this point, in the "spirt" position under code 2208, we need to rule out such low-alcoholic beverages. Third. Specific excise taxes on tobacco products, tobacco and industrial substitutes for tobacco, as well as minimum excise tax burden on excise taxes on tobacco products, increase by 40 percent, leave the ad valorem tax unchanged. Four. In the paragraphs that are added to subsection V of section XX, "Final positions" for the introduction of excise fuel consignment notes, make the following changes to replace them with "April 1" from "September 1st." In the first sentence of paragraph 9, the word "July" is replaced by the word "March." In paragraph 1 of paragraph 10, replace the word "September" with the word "March." The word "August" is replaced by the word "March" and the word "July" is replaced by the word "February". In paragraph 1 and paragraph 2, the word "July" should be replaced by the word "March" and the word "September" should be replaced by the word "April". In section III of the Final Position of the Project, in paragraph 1 of paragraph 3, the word "July" should be replaced by the word "March". Fifth. The December 22 proposal for excise duty transitional rates on motor alternative fuels of 141 euros per thousand kilograms (this is item 14, subsection V and section XX of the "Transitional Regulations" of the Ukrainian Tax Code) is proposed to be implemented by March 1. It is already proposed in April that the rates provided for under paragraph 215.3.4 of the Ukrainian Tax Code be converted into a thousand gallons [84 euros] per thousand gallons [120 euros] per thousand gallons [1,000 L]. Let's go from kilograms to liters. Six. Chapter III of the End of the Bill will complement the bill with a new paragraph to predict that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets minimum wholesale and retail prices for tobacco products, tobacco and industrial tobacco substitutes. Seven. To complete chapter II of the "Ending Positions" of the bill with a new point of such content. In part, in replacing the provisions of article 220 of this Code, manufacturers and/or importers of tobacco products may, within five working days of the day following the date of publication of this Law, submit a new declaration on the set maximum retail prices to be applied the following day. The next section is about the rent for the use of natural gas-derived nadrama. We propose the second paragraph of paragraph 5 of section 82 and the bill on the new edition of subsection IX prime. Chapter XX, Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian Tax Code, should be supplemented by the words "from 1 April 2016 until 31 December 2016, including 50 per cent." Third. As for the rent for using the radio frequency of Ukraine. The current wage rates for the use of Ukraine's radio frequency resource increase by 13.35 per cent instead of 26.7 per cent of the indexation, as proposed in paragraph 66 of the bill. Four. As far as the land is concerned. With the aim of bringing the terminology of the Tax Code into line with the Ukrainian Code of Land, paragraph 75 of the draft text. In sub-paragraph 274. Paragraph 274 of article 274 after the words "agriculture agreements" should be supplemented by the words "a land of general use". To supplement paragraph 82 of the bill on changes to chapter XX "Transitional positions" with the following rule: in subsection 6 in the title "earth tax" replace the words "earth pay". To be completed in paragraph 6 of this annex. Set that the consumer price index for 2015 (agriculture, attention, please) used to determine the ratio of the index of the regulatory and monetary valuation of agricultural holdings, grills, perennial plantings, symphony, pastures and transfers is applied with a value of 120 per cent. Fifth. As a result of the discussion, we are modifying earlier proposals to exclude from the bill the rules relating to the implementation of the bill's mechanisms (registration number 3355) on financial restructuring, which was not considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we must consider it by the end of this week. Six. In section III, paragraph 1, "Final Positions" states that this law takes effect as of the date of entry into force of the Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2016", but not before January 1, 2016. Seven. Article 49, paragraph 49.4, should be supplemented by this. In the event of the termination by the controlling authority of a unilateral agreement on the recognition of electronic documents, the taxpayer with whom the contract has been terminated shall have the right to lodge a new contract in the manner defined in subparagraphs "a" and "b" of paragraph 49.3 of this article. Eight. Paragraph 4 and 5 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 42 concerning the completion of article 198(6) of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Alexander Volodymyr. Leave the correct edition of article 167, paragraph 167.5.2, and article 170, paragraph 170, paragraph 170.11, of article 170, paragraph 170, on income taxation in the form of dividends with a foreign origin. Ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u57	Let's keep it at the active level, it won't be new. No, it's 18. Proposal for a bill to disintegrate VAT in a special regime for agricultural producers. With a view to resolving the issue of the special VAT tax regime and at the same time avoiding the freezing of circulation costs and the excessive payment of VAT to the budget by payers who apply the special VAT tax regime, it is proposed that VAT be distributed in proportion to the type of electricity produced by the company. That is, in the implementation of grain and technical crops: 15 per cent, for the special accounts of SG enterprises, 85 per cent, is accounted for as a basic electronic account, from which, after the application of the declaration on a specific basis, VAT amounts are counted in the budget and over-calculated amounts are returned to enterprises. Yes, when another SG-product is implemented within the scope of the activity, it's going to be 50 per cent of the VAT distribution. It's for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u58	Ma'am, how much longer? Then please give us the opportunity to finish. Try to keep it tight. Please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u59	Read it under the stenogram. Such changes are necessary to implement such a mechanism. First, paragraph 1 sets out the second paragraph of paragraph 200, in line with the following wording: (a) the electronic tax administration accounts allocated to the state budget of Ukraine and to their special accounts opened in banks and/or bodies carrying out treasury services of budgetary resources; (b) the electronic tax administration system accounts allocated to the state budget of Ukraine and to their special accounts opened in banks and/or bodies operating in banks and/or bodies carrying out treasury services of budgetary resources for the provision of grain and technical crops. Paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 of paragraph 2 should be replaced by six paragraphs. Paragraph 6 reads as follows: "The total amount of the current account of the payer in the electronic tax administration system, including the accounts in the electronic tax administration system of the payer-agricultural enterprise, which has chosen a special tax regime in accordance with Article 209 of this Code, as set out in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 201 above.1.2 of this article, after paragraph 6, complete with five paragraphs of the following: "They do not take part in the calculation of the amount of the sums of the account charged in the electronic tax administration system with: (a) the accounts in the electronic tax administration system open to the state budget and the special accounts opened in the banks and/or in the bodies that carry out the accounting of the public budget accounts." I have to read all the points because they are of enormous importance, because in the electronic administration system, the formula can only be incorporated into the body of the law itself. This is to ensure that the c/g manufacturers that go over the specified proportion of the security are not able to immediately recalculate the funds into the state budget, and then they can't get the overcalculated system back, but a well-designed system, so that they can focus on the interim account and only get into the budget for a month, i.e. from the interim account after the reporting, they can always be returned, overpaid amounts, back from the/g-producer. It's very important what the c-g-producers asked for. Therefore, paragraph (b): “accounts in the electronic administration system of taxes opened for the recalculation of funds to the public budget and for special accounts opened in banks and/or in bodies that provide treasury services to budget for the provision of grain and technical crops. Subparagraph 4 should be worded in this order. Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 200, Prime 1.5, should be amended as follows: the costs incurred by payers in the electronic tax administration system open to the State budget and for special accounts opened in the banks and in the bodies that provide treasury services to the budget and for payers in the electronic administration system of the tax opened to the State budget and to the special accounts opened in the institutions of the banks and /or in the bodies that carry out the treasury services of the budget for the provision of grain and technical crops are automatically counted to the bodies that perform the treasury services of the budget for such payer in the electronic tax administration system for the provision of grain and technical crops and for the subsequent account. Requisition of such a special account by a payer with a company that has chosen a special tax regime in accordance with Article 209 of this Code, is required to report in the tax report on the added value. Four. Paragraph 1 of Subparagraph 5 should be replaced by four paragraphs. 5. In paragraph 200 prime. 6 in the first paragraph, replace the word “declaration” with “reporting” and replace the words “article 200” with “articles 200 and 209”. In the second paragraph, replace the word "tax return" with "tax return", and replace the words "tax return" with the words "tax return". After paragraph 5, complete with the following paragraph. Maybe we can take that into consideration in technical law. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u60	Read, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u61	Please suffer a little. Third. In paragraph 47. First. Subparagraph 1 should be worded in this order. First. Paragraph 209.2 should be amended as follows: 209.2 A positive difference between the amount of tax liabilities of the reporting period and the amount of tax credit of the reporting period is significant: "a", for agricultural goods operations, services other than those of cereals and technical crops referred to in subparagraph "b" of this paragraph is recalculated: 50 per cent to the State budget of Ukraine, for special accounts opened by agricultural enterprises subject to a special taxation regime in banks and/or bodies carrying out treasury services of 50 per cent; "B." According to OCTZED and the technical crops of product items 1205 and 120600, UCTZED is recalculated: 85 per cent to the State budget of Ukraine, to special accounts opened by agricultural enterprises, to special taxation entities in banks and/or in bodies carrying out treasury services of 15 per cent. 209.2.1. Agricultural enterprises to ensure the recalculation of item "a" of paragraph "a" of paragraph 209.2 of this article include own-account costs in the electronic administration system of the added-cost tax opened for the recalculation of funds to the State Budget and for special accounts opened in banks' institutions and/or in bodies that provide treasury services to the budget. Subparagraph b. Subparagraph "b" of paragraph 209.2 of this article includes own-account costs in the electronic administration system of added-cost taxes opened to the state budget and special accounts opened in banks and/or in bodies that provide treasury services for the provision of grain and technical crops. 209.2.2. The costs charged to the account in the electronic administration system for the added value tax referred to in sub-paragraph 209.2.1 of this article are automatically calculated by the authority responsible for the treasury operation of the budget in the following terms: (a) of the accounts indicated in sub-paragraph 209.2.1 of this article, (a) of the accounts indicated in sub-paragraph 209.2 of sub-paragraph 209.2 of this article, (b) of the accounts opened in banks and/or in bodies that carry out the administrative servicing of the added-value tax; (b) of the accounts indicated in sub-item (b) of the sub-paragraph 209.2.1 of this article, (b) of the special budget of the budget. 209.2 3 For the purposes of calculating to the national budget of Ukraine the costs charged to payers in the electronic tax administration system for the value added, from the accounts of payers in the electronic administration system for the value added tax referred to in sub-paragraph 209.2 of paragraph 209.2 of this article, the central authority of the executive authority that provides for the implementation of the tax and customs policy shall send to the authority that provides the treasury service of the budget, the reporting period and the amount of the tax payable to the added-value system, the register of payers indicating the name of the payer, the tax number and the individual tax number of the payer, the period and the amount of the tax payable to the budget specified in the tax declaration. On the basis of such a register, which provides treasury services for the budget, where the electronic tax administration accounts of payers are opened for the added value of the electronic administration system, no later than the last day of the deadline set by the code, the tax amounts to the budget are listed for the payment of the tax on their own. The value added tax amounts that are recalculated for special accounts are found in banks and/or in bodies that are open to special accounts that carry out treasury services, are not budgeted and remain fully at the disposal of such an agricultural enterprise for use in agricultural products and services. Such sums are accumulated by agricultural enterprises in such accounts in an order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 209.2 4 Agricultural enterprises, subject to the special tax regime set up by the Code, must ensure that, for the purpose of paying tax on their own account, the electronic tax administration system referred to in paragraph 209.2 of this article, the amount sufficient to be counted in the State Budget and the special account based on the tax declaration in question, which reflects the results of activities within the special tax regime during the reporting period. Agricultural enterprises are subject to a special regime for the taxation of accounts with budgets for other transactions carried out during the reporting (tax) period outside the special tax regime, in accordance with article 200 of the Code. The other one. After paragraph 1, complete the new sub-paragraph 2 with this content. Subparagraph 2. "In sub-paragraph "a" of sub-paragraph 209.15. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can't. There's a little bit left. In the second paragraph, replace "agricultural goods/services" with "agricultural goods/services, including crop crops of goods items 1001-1008 according to the ZED CCT and technical crops of goods items 1205 and 1206 00 according to the ZED CCT. After the second paragraph, add the following new paragraph: "If goods/services, basic funds produced and/or purchased are used by an agricultural enterprise in part for the production of grains of product items 1001-1008 according to ZED and technical crops of goods items 1205 and 1206 according to the ZED, and partly for other agricultural goods/services, the amount of tax credit paid shall be distributed out of the value of such cereals and technical crops in the total value of all agricultural goods/services paid in the 12 previous consecutive reporting periods. Third. Paragraph 2 is to be considered sub-paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u63	The final proposal, which remained unagreed until the end, was that of the established rent for gas extraction by joint economic operators, where we offered 70 percent for those with direct or indirect state ownership. It's now proposed that 70 percent be left for all joint activity. It's the only question that needs to be discussed. I propose a bill to take account of these proposals and proposals made by the committee on December 22, this year, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. We would also like to request that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, conduct a technical and legal review of this bill after its adoption. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u65	Please, colleagues, two pros is two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u66	Please. Nasalik, Peter Dusty Block, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u67	Please give the word to the Hen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, of course this bill and these changes that we're discussing right now are a really complicated option. This is really an emergency exit from that situation to ensure that the budget is balanced, their expenses. And indeed, people expect us to make this very important and almost historic decision in these difficult times. I listened very carefully to Nina Petrovna’s report, and I fully support it. But I do have this offer. In view of the fact that the Final Positions establish that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine sets minimum wholesale and retail prices for tobacco products, tobacco and industrial substitutes for tobacco, it sets out it more specifically and more specifically and proposes the next rule in the next edition in order to make it actually work. So instead of what I've read and what I'm going to do, I'm going to propose. "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within 10 days of the date of entry into force of this law, set a minimum split price for cigarettes with and without a filter, a cigarette equal to or less than twice the minimum excise tax liability set by the Ukrainian Tax Code." The point is that this is what the Association of Tobacco Manufacturers is asking us to do, and the industry will only be satisfied with it. So, dear colleagues, I understand that this bill, it really needs the courage of its adoption. We're going to have a lot of pressure next year, which is that we still have to start a liberal tax reform. But I propose to vote yes and to support with this amendment that I just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u69	Sergei Kiral "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u70	Please, George, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u71	Andrew George.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u72	Comrades, good afternoon! The Self-Help faction will generally support changes to the Tax Code and a draft bill, because it has been able to implement many ideas in this bill. But we have strong warnings about two things. The first thing is about introducing minimum prices for tobacco products. The practice of the European Union suggests that these prices have been accused, and this is an anticompetitive norm. Today, the faction has turned two of the four companies that firmly deny it. If we're saying that we want to raise minimum prices like these and not destroy competition, the only effective mechanism is raising excises, raising the ad valorem rate, at least, as the government suggested, by 3 percentage points. I want to remind you that two years ago, the ad valorem was reduced by 12 percentage points solely because of corruption. So we have to support Minfin's position here, raise the ad valorem by at least 3 percentage points, and preserve the competition. You know who wants minimum prices? Vladimir Borisovich, do you know who requires minimum prices? Two tobacco companies, and you'll be surprised, these two tobacco companies are indirectly owned by Megapolis, which is a monopoly on the Ukrainian market. It is they who seek to further distort competition and raise minimum prices solely by administrative means. This contradicts the practice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u73	Thank you. Next. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, of course, if I could, I would now show you a table of what the price, which, for example, is set to a cheap segment, is 8 bracelets. So, seven. 41 cents is a tax component. 0.59 copies, do you think that's enough for a company, a manufacturer of a cheap segment to spend on raw materials and all the operating costs? In this segment, the price is completely unfair. 8 bracelets are set on a pack of cigarettes, which means that only 59 copies per manufacturer are left on raw material and operating expenses, and they don't do lifting because they are really prices wars and they're accelerating the entire population. So if you pick up only excises without a minimum price, you travel by 40 percent, you get a pack of cigarettes on 3 bracelets, and 0.59 percent of them remain in the company. So we keep distorting the version that they're kind of working for themselves. They don't work for damage, they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u76	These are comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u77	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u78	Dear fellow national MPs, what is he now offering us to do with the government? The government has prepared a budget, which is the budget for the conservation of poverty and is now proposing to amend the Tax Code in order to justify this budget. This is, you know, it's like setting up an enterprise's development strategy, a marketing strategy under an accounting balance. That's not how nobody does it, it's a completely antisocial, anti-entrepreneur position. What will be the result? As a result, there will be no structural changes that are needed, and as a result, the existing economic policy of the government will be enshrined. I'm going to ask the Supreme Council apparatus to show you the first slide I gave you, if there's such a technical possibility. You look at the results of this policy. For 3 years, there's been a fall in gross domestic product, a fall in the economy, in real measure. Look, these columns are the Ukrainian economy. If you don't take into account devaluation, it's even more important. This line going up to 91 percent is the debt burden on the Ukrainian economy. The critical limit is 60 percent according to the IMF methodology, and we've already moved 90 percent. What does this talk about? That a budget should be adopted, which is not the last to be taken from pensioners, which does not raise taxes on the income of natural persons or on real estate, as proposed, but rather the real restructuring of government debt, the real deep and systemic. You have to tax the oligarchs, not the poorest ones, and you have to create incentives for economic development, to make the economy grow and come out of the shadows. Unfortunately, these technical changes that are being proposed to us today are only compromised in the sense that they are the worst.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland, out of place. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u80	First of all, I want to thank Nina Petrovni Jujanini and all the MPs who have been working on the changes to tax legislation, because they have significantly improved the choice that has been given to Parliament by the government. But at the same time, for Fatherland, these changes to tax legislation are unacceptable, and that's why. First. Our goal is not to kill Ukraine's economy, but to raise Ukraine's economy. And the biggest corporations can't be financed by increasing tax pressure on small businesses, on the smallest of our producers. And so we can't agree with the killing of small, small producers, like those on a simplified tax system, the tax rate goes up 80 percent for a simplified tax system, that's the fourth group. Besides. A fixed agricultural tax, I mean, 80 percent. There is also an increase in the rate for single taxpayers who paid the fixed rate. In addition, we're almost destroying the tax system for crops that can't be allowed. At a time when an additional 15 billion dollars are allocated from the budget for large grain traders. I can tell you that our team is working professionally. We've made proposals for an increase in the budget. And that's why we can't support leaving the rent for the state-owned enterprise 70 percent on gas extraction and saving the tariffs for which everyone's been fighting for. And we can't support an increase in tax pressure on all Ukrainians by changing the income tax of individuals. And besides, there's still pension taxes. There's nothing we can do about it. You can't make poor people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u81	30 seconds, please, Julia Volodymyrna, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u82	The poor cannot help the rich. In addition, 5 percent of the tax on dividends for the rich is stored here and at the same time a pension tax is maintained. Five percent is beyond justice, tax the rich, and give life to those who are barely surviving today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u83	Please, Mikola Princely, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u84	Dear Nina Petrovna, I want you to hear me now and tell you about one very important rule that was agreed upon with Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Finance. I very much ask that you continue to benefit from VAT to provide production of national films and translations of films into Ukrainian. This is section 2 of Section 12 of the Transitional Regulations of the Code of Law. It's not a big budget load, we've got a few of these films on film, but we can't stop them in the context of an information war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Anatoly Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u87	Please, Anatoly Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u88	The well-respected Vladimir Borisovic, of course, in the proposed draft, is very positive, very refined and reduced wages and so on. But that's what I'm trying to say. The removal of the agricultural sector should be accompanied by, of course: (a) a moratorium on farmers who are unable to withstand these special conditions today; and another procedure for the administration of automatic VAT reimbursement. Otherwise, the withdrawal of the special guards will lead to price rises because the manufacturer will raise prices by 20 per cent in the internal market, and the second one will wash out its working capital if it stands in line and after six months receive VAT reimbursement, as we do today. The second question is pensions for pensioners. An absolutely unacceptable norm for our group, like the interest rate on gas production today, is about 70 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u89	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u90	It is also very important in the administration of VAT. It is now proposed that a register be established. There is today a list of automatic VAT reimbursements. It is proposed that the existing automatic VAT refund procedure should be maintained and that an additional registry should be established on the basis of the first submission and, accordingly, the priority of reimbursement. Because we're going to be like that. Without the adoption of these rules, we do not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, this bill is certainly not a reform. I want everyone to understand that this isn't the new Tax Code. These are the points that need to be taken to date in order to in any way call the country’s budget for 2016. We all expected and expected from the Ministry of Finance that it would bring us tax reform. Since March, we have been expecting this, and the Ministry of Finance has given us all a headache. That's why we're in this situation right now. Most of the proposals made by the Self-Help faction to preserve the simplified system are balanced by the local budgets, by the non-introduction of cashiers, by agrarians, by the preservation of livestock, by the security, by vegetables, and by gardening are taken into account. So we don't see any other alternative to supporting this bill being forced for the reasons that we all need the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u93	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! There is a great deal of useful money in the proposed document, including that of oligarchy interests. I propose to make another proposal, unfortunately not heard in our joint meetings with the government, and yet to introduce a 3 percent rent on energy coal in Ukraine. Because this amount of billions of dollars has to be sent to the border service to create a strengthened border at the Ukrainian-Russian area and areas belonging to the ATO. And for the wages of the border guards, which will make it equal to the size of the National Guard. I think it'll be fair when the coal money from the oligarchs goes to strengthen the security of our country. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, just a minute. Is it gone? Then come on, I've heard all the suggestions. Take your seats. Take your seats. Please, Nina Petrovna. Wait a minute! Sergey Mishchenko, a minute, and then Nina Petrovna Jujanina. Please take our seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u96	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Well, it's clear that under the Tax Code, which taxes pensioners, who only introduces rents from April 16th, both pensioners and low-income pensioners may not expect new payments during this heating season. But I would call this law a raider in terms of seizing agricultural land. Because by killing the VAT payers, small farmers will die this year, and their land will simply be more expensive. And that's why it's just a raid on land. What are we doing?? We do. Our country should do its utmost to have these small farmers feed our land, but we are doing our best to destroy them. And all those who want to take the land from small farmers, they're going to do it because of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u97	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Everyone please take your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u98	I'd like a dry sum. That the simplified system is being saved almost completely, you all get it. Because yesterday colleagues came along, until then it was not clear what happened to the simplifieds. The first, the second group is completely left, the third group is only reduced by annual turnover to 5 million, which is agreed with these entrepreneurs. And 1 percent only raises the bet. 4 groups saved. Indeed, there has not been a significant increase in the size of this payment, but very many items agree with the manufacturer's s/s. So at such a difficult time, I would like to point out that most of the points are the result of a huge agreement, and I support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Next offer, right? What Nina Petrovna is saying under the transcript is that under the transcript, it's called Yuri Lucenk and Mikola Knieżicki. Offer. Signal vote. In the second reading, in the second reading, on the basis and in general, of the suggestions that I made under the transcript. Ready? Signal, signal, signal. We're voting on a signal vote with those three proposals. Basically, on the basis and in general. [[12:03:13]] For-179 Yes, there was a signal vote. Yeah, total number. I see. Colleagues, I think we need to hold some more consultations right now. Please, faction managers are on the third floor. We have a 30-minute break under the Rules. At 12:30, we return to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. We're going to start voting right away, so we need to be in the workplace. Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please call the deputies to the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. The board of directors of factions and groups, as well as national deputies, had just concluded. Please, colleagues, we are preparing our seats and preparing for further consideration, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation and some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the balance of budgetary revenues in 2016. Please invite the factions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. Please report to the rostrum, Nina Petrovn Jujanin, for the outcome of the meeting. Please. Please, colleagues, take your seats! Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Colleagues, please take your seats in the session room, and we will vote in favour after the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we're now done adjusting proposals and positions and I want to add to what I've announced not so long ago from this rostrum, today, it's meant. The proposals that have been made by the deputies in the Hall leave only the Prince's proposal to extend the VAT premium for 1 year, and I will no longer call the norm. And in addition to that, I've read you a lot about settling the issue of the special VAT regime. Now all I want to do is point out the deal that's been reached with respect to proportions. And all the changes to the corresponding points I'm not going to repeat, because technically they're going to be the same again, only the ratio is going to be changed. So in terms of proportions that depend on the type of agricultural product that is being produced by the agricultural producer. In the implementation of cereals and technical crops, 15 per cent of enterprises account for special accounts, 85 per cent is accounted for in the main electronic account, from which, after the application of the declaration, the declared amounts are credited to the budget and the surpluses are returned. In the implementation of other products, such as grains and technical products, and with the exception of WCCs and milk, 80 per cent for special accounts of enterprises and 20 per cent for the main electronic account with subsequent budgeting. Anything but grain and technical, cream and milk -- 50 by 50:50 -- in the budget, 50 in special accounts from enterprises. Is everyone clear? The top and the milk: 80 remain agrarian. As far as I'm Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u103	Yeah. I repeat, because the grains: 15 at the company, 85 at the budget. The top and the milk: 80 companies and only 20 companies in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u104	No, no, I said it right. And the other is 50 by 50. Is everyone clear? Now, the joint activity remains unchanged. There's no change in Crushing. One more question. Technical adjustments should be made in connection with the VAT return register. They're going to apply to that block that we have the transition period, the budget debt, the VAT reimbursement budget. Exporters are now proposing to leave some of the automatic compensation to those who have more than 40 percent of the export ingredient. So in the register, leave a partial space for such payers, or priority. These are all the arrangements that have just been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u105	Dear fellow national MPs! [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute, we're back. Take your seats, dear fellows. Take your seats. Please ask all faction leaders to invite their national deputies. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, we have the next proposal. This was Nina Petrovna's performance, the first one under the transcript; and then she just made it clear, this presentation, under the transcript of the amendment and the changes to this law; and also with the technical law. Please, are you ready? Take your seats! Take your seats. Now. Take your seats, colleagues. Are you guys ready? Please give the signal vote on the basis and in total 3,688 according to the proposal I have announced. Vote. Signal voting 3688, the basis and overall, with proposals from the rostrum. Vote. [[13:50:01]] For-167 We didn't get the required number of votes. They didn't get the required number of votes. Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this means that not all questions have been further discussed. So I'm going to call it a break again. 2:30 p.m., till 2:30 p.m. Break till 2:30, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, consultations continue on the Tax Code, and we will begin work at 4:00. I very much ask all national deputies at 16 to be ready for the vote, at 16 o'clock we will begin the voting work immediately. I'd like everyone in the room to be ready for the vote at 4:00. Thank you, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and there will be a vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies that the time of the lunch break is over, and there will be an important vote now. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Heads of factions, please mobilize a special warehouse to participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Please come into the hall and take up jobs. Once again, I ask my fellow deputies to enter the hall to take up their jobs. Please inform the deputies of the beginning of the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u108	Dear fellow national MPs, we come into the hall, we continue our work. Please, dear fellow members of the national parliament. Dear colleagues, please come to the Supreme Council Hall and continue our work, we still have a rather serious and tense agenda. Please come in. Now we're going to announce a couple of training votes, this magical sound, and maybe more MPs will respond to it. Dear fellow national deputies, please take our seats, we will continue our work. Please, people's deputies, take your seats in the hall. Please! Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats in the hall, we continue our work. I'd like to invite the head of the committee, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, to the podium for information, please, 3688. I ask all deputies to take their seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, please! Colleagues, please take your seats. Take your seats, colleagues. For information, I would like to invite the head of the committee, Nina Petrovna Jujanina, 3688 drafts. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Please, colleagues, pay attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u109	Perhaps they can arrange for the people to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u110	Colleagues, please take our seats. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Colleagues, we're taking our seats in the Supreme Council Hall. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Please take your seats. Colleagues, please take our seats in the session room. Let's go to. We continue our consideration of question 3688. An extremely responsible vote, colleagues, I think everyone understands that. We've been in consultations all day, talking about all the things that were possible. So I appeal to everyone to a constructive position now in the debate and the vote. Let's move on, we have a lot of tough decisions. But I think we all realize that our responsibility is whether we are able to make responsible decisions. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Concentrate on the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u111	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u112	Attention! Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we have stopped for a break with you and we have diverged in our views on the application of the new VAT administration system through open VAT compensation registers. So now in the process of discussion, of professional discussion, and as we've broken it down, we've come up with such a compromise. It is proposed to create 2 public open registers with the same VAT chronological compensation system. The first register for business entities that meet the criteria for automatic compensation. In doing so, we will remove from the automatic compensation criteria the standard that allowed us to be there and entities of entrepreneurial activity that were not exporters but only had investments of 3 million dollars a year. We leave only those with more than 40 percent of the expertise in this criterion. In addition, in the criteria for automatic VAT compensation, we remove the criteria, and we turn them more faithfully into the following. Automated compensation resulted in the loss of taxpayers, and this allowed them to speculate on this standard. Thus, the amount of compensation paid to business entities that fall within the criteria of automatic compensation will be deducted from the tax liability that is included in it. What's more, if you've noticed, there's already a rule in the text that we've talked about that there's a possibility that you can count the amount of budgetary compensation at the expense of other payments. So once again, this emphasizes that such an option as excluding automatic compensation will fail, there will be no such mechanism in the hands of taxpayers. And the second transparent chronological register is going to be for all the other payers, and for those exporters that are small, and for our Ukrainian producers, who are entitled to budget funding because of the input tax, for example, import credit. So two transparent registers according to the same system. We now said that this would be right in view of the fact that the speed of the submission of declarations by small and medium-sized entities is much easier for large enterprises. So this is what we're going to do more fairly in creating registers in payers by category, as if that's the case. That is why we are proposing to implement such a system as of February 1, 2016. Because to do that, you have to rebuild the entire electronic accounting system that there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u114	Thank you. Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues of the national MPs, the proposal is as follows: with the amendment and proposals announced by Nina Petrovna Južanin, including the amendment of Nikola Knieżicke, on the basis of and in general with technical law. I ask everyone to concentrate, prepare for the vote. I want you to understand that this is an extremely responsible vote. We have to move on, and the country has to get the budget. We vote, honourable colleagues, on the basis and generally according to my proposal for technical law. Ready? Vote. On the basis and in general of technical law with appropriate suggestions under the transcript. We're voting and I'm asking you to support everyone. Vote. [[16:36:18]] For 251 The law's been passed. Congratulations, dear colleagues, we have taken the first step towards those decisions, the responsible decisions that the country needs. Look at the factions, please. Let's move on. 3688 approved. 3627: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the administration of public property (for the right to receive part of net profit). Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, please 3627. Oh, he did. This law has already been discussed, 3627. Vote. He was discussed in 3627. We vote on the basis and in general. Vote. He was discussed. Vote. 3627 is what we discussed on Thursday. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:37:19]] For 231 The law's been passed. Thank you. 3628: Draft Act of Special Provisions of Social Policy. But before that, we had a committee law, and we discussed it on factions this morning, with committee regulations. Yeah? Let's do 3628 with the committee's rights, which were discussed on the faction, and the technical legal rights. Please vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. Please support everyone. [[16:38:07]] For 214 Colleagues, 214. Once again, when we returned to this law, we spoke to it on factions, there are all agreed positions, it is completely normal. Back to 3628. Please vote 3628 — return. Ready? We vote 3,628 returns. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:38:39]] For 231 We're back. On the basis and in general, please vote. In accordance with my offer, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:38:57]] For the 220. "For," please support, colleagues. Colleagues, one more time, 220. On return, this is an important law, forming a budget right now, and I'm asking you to support this decision. 3628 for the return. Vote please, colleagues. I ask everyone to support the return to this law, please. Ready to vote? Please support, we're voting back. [[16:39:28]] For 237 Back, 237. Thank you. On the basis of this, and in general, I would like to vote in the version of the committee with technical legal rights. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:39:48]] For 228 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Guys, let's move on. 3533: Draft Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activity. And there's also a bill under discussion. There's a proposition on the ground and on the whole. Vote. 3533, please vote. On the basis and in general. We vote it's the law of the package. [[16:40:21]] For 268. The law's been passed. Let's move on, dear fellows. Law 3657, Arthur Gerasimov, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine (for the redistribution of individual expenses). Arthur Gerasimov, so was he. Oh, no? Okay, okay, okay. Let's move on, fellows. Let's move on. 2449, National Bank Act, all factions voted for it two weeks ago, three weeks ago. Draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring. Doubenko reported, and all the factions voted, we just physically vote on the basis and in general. 2449-d, this is Natzbank under the IMF programme. 2449, please vote. [[16:41:41]] For 239. The law's been passed. All the factions in the last vote voted for him, so I'm absolutely responsible. Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets (3629). Igor Umanski. 3629 is changes to the Code of Budgets with technical and legal rights. Do we vote on the proposals? Please, 36. Changes to the Budget Code. Igor Umansky, please report. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. We are voting on the simplified procedure. [[16:42:35]] For a hundred and With the committee, okay. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was discussed in great detail until the very night on the Committee of Budgets. Its essence is very simple, it's the introduction of the rules of the Tax Code. The budget code for those changes that you just voted on special laws, on the one hand. On the other hand, it's the introduction of so-called budget rules. The committee and I went completely through all the articles. And I'm asking you to support the committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u116	Colleagues, we discussed it. By the way, he was consulted, and all understandings were found. 3629, if there is no objection, according to the proposal, the reporter – on the basis and in general. Is there such an offer? And in transitional positions we have to add one norm. Please, Matthew, a minute. One rule in transitional positions. It's agreed, and we're going to work on one formula for excise. But just spell it out correctly, Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, on the budget committee, we also discussed today at the Conciliation Council, including the five - percent delimitation on local fuel budgets. But we decided we shouldn't bring him in right now. We agreed, and this was confirmed by both the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, that we will write in the budget when we take our final positions, that we will find the formula and in February we will make this decision and introduce it from the second quarter of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u118	This is going to be a formula of alignment, not just by distribution, but so that it meets the corresponding needs of the territories. And so, 3629 as a base and we're voting in general, please support, 3629, please support. With the committee's proposals and technical remedies, please support me. [[16:44:41]] For 222 We didn't make it. It's my fault. Please return 3629, 3629 for return, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:45:04]] For 222 Colleagues, for the return of 3629. Colleagues, please! Yes, the MPs are coming in. Please, this is the Budget Code. 3629, please vote in favour. Please vote. Please be supportive. "For," please support. [[16:45:31]] For 224 Fellows, pay attention! 3629 for the return. Please support everyone. And that's going to be in the committee's version, and I'm going to put his vote in line with the committee's decision. 3629. All right, I'll give it to you. Please come back. I'd like your support, colleagues. 3629, please support the return, the Budget Code. Please vote. Please support your colleagues. Please! [[16:46:19]] For 230 Thank you. We're back, 230. Ischeikin Constantine, please. I wanted to make an offer: I would take it as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, 3629 in the Committee's version, based on and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Vote? Please vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We vote on the basis and in general with the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[16:47:22]] For 227 The law is passed, your honors. I'll give it to I'll give you my word, Oleg Valeriyovich. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u119	Give me your word!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u120	Please give me a minute, Oleg Easy. Two minutes, Oleg Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want all citizens of Ukraine to pay attention to what is now happening in the House of Parliament. This is a total violation of the Rules. Parliament is voting in favour of a simplified procedure, and we are not even allowed to speak. Okay, you've touched your corruption schemes in the south. You made a deal. You're here. Vote for the budget along with the Opposition Block, which tells us how bad it is for the people to live. And you just voted for new taxes, for increasing taxes, for destroying the agricultural business. You're breaking the Rules. I'm calling my colleagues from Self-Help. Long time ago, Oleg Romanovich, you said you wouldn't vote. Why are you voting now? Why is there no bill in Parliament today that we should vote for? You're changing the tax system. You've just passed a bill that takes away benefits that radically reduces the standard of living of people. And you're not even giving us the opportunity to speak. I ask the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the Prime Minister, I ask the parliamentary majority, what better are you regionals? They wouldn't let you speak, you do the same. You're breaking the law, you're acting unconditionally, you're restricting our rights as an opposition faction to defend the interests of your citizens. If we can't break your widths and deals, let us at least be able to speak, give you a chance to object, let people explain what's going on in this room. And you're robbing people, you're destroying the country, you're closing the word of opposition, and you're voting with the block of thieves. You're worse than Yanukovich! Bastards!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u122	Dear fellow national MPs! Give me a minute. Please put the vote to the vote. Bring it out on the board, as the Opposition Block voted, look. Last vote. They voted 34 against. But that's not the point, colleagues. I'd like to remind you, Your Honor, that laws. I'll give it to you, Oleg. Calm down. Calm down, don't take the vote. It's okay. I want to remind you one thing is that laws. That the laws that we have just voted are the laws that were discussed on Thursday at a meeting of the Supreme Council, including Thursday at a meeting of the Supreme Council. But we have been conducting open consultations all day, and the distinguished speaker took part in their discussion. He even filmed it and posted it on the Internet. This is a witness, Oleg Valeriyovich. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to calm down. I understand that there are political slogans, political positions and everything. But there is such a thing as Ukraine, a country that needs financial stability as well. And everyone is well aware of what shocks and risks we may have if we do not approve of these decisions. Is everyone aware? So I would ask for responsibility to the Ukrainian people. Thank you, colleagues. And if I hadn't felt that responsibility, maybe I would have behaved differently. And I feel responsible, it hurts every decision I make. Because I understand there's going to be no budget in our country on January 1. And everyone knows that, colleagues. Please, Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u123	Dear fellow MPs! The self-help faction over the week, with the documents you have, works with each committee and with every ministry to investigate this Tax Code and this budget. We've been doing this all year. Not for 25 years. Like some of you, 15 and a year! And today, by our vote, we take responsibility for what we do by looking people in the eye! These laws that are being voted today are not the laws of words, they're the laws of each of those people who are sitting on the left side of me! This is a responsibility including those mistakes! And everyone today is free to vote! And when Ostrikova doesn't want to vote, she doesn't vote, because it's her responsibility as a professional, including her. Thank you, good luck! And one more thing. Acceptance or non-acceptance of the budget is the question! And let each one give his own soul the answer to that question. And the Opposition Block gives you zero votes for everything we vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u124	Thank you, Oleg Romanovich. Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Romanovich. Look, I didn't give it, it just, look, yeah, it was, it was, it was a performance where it was called a last name. There was a line. But we'll start the discussion now, I'll give you my word, no questions asked. 3689: Draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on the expenditure of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. And calm down. And thank you for taking the lead. It's a simplified procedure. Everybody, calm down, don't push. [[16:55:06]] For-191 Thank you, 191. Please, Roman Kachure. Roman Kachur, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u125	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! In connection with that package of legislation that has been adopted, the EU’s change has been reduced. And in order to be able to secure an uninterrupted pension payment early next year, we propose to increase the funding of the Pension Fund by 14 billion dollars on account of the economy in 2015, the actual economy, including: 7 billion government debt services, the non-use of energy funds -- 6 billion dollars and subsidies to help families with children who are currently funded by 100 percent, and there is a real economy. Request for support so that we can secure funding of pensions continuously in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u126	Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Everybody says, "vote." Well, then we vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3689. Please vote in accordance with the proposals made by the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and technical and legal rights. Vote? 3689 votes, colleagues. These are your proposals, I'll put them to a vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:57:05]] For 306 The law's been passed. Let's move on, dear fellows. 2830, draft Law 2830. There is a proposal to consider draft Law 2830. 2830, Your Honor, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Purpose of Environmental Taxation. John Ivanovich reports. It's a second reading. Ivanovich Kulichenko. 2830. Please report. It's a second reading. It's on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We passed a law on the first reading that returns a special fund in the polluted territory. During this period, 12 amendments were made during this time, with 7 being considered and adopted on the Budget Committee, 4 being rejected in part. From the rejected ones. One of them has agreed no longer to vote. On another issue related to the percentage distribution, compromises have been found that are considered by law. On the basis of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, the term of validity of the law is proposed to be set on January 1, 2017. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill 2930. 2830 in the second reading and generally as a law proposed by the committee in a comparative table of the final draft of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've had 12 rights, all of these are taken into account by the committee, and I'm now. Wait a second. I'm asking for an update on who has suggestions and warnings, and I'm looking at Anatolia Matvienko, please. Turn on Anatoly's microphone to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u129	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I was not at the committee meeting, and I cannot understand what the motivation for the rejection of the rights that Doubenko and I had brought. The point is that we do not touch, indeed, cities of district importance, we do not touch united communities. But when there are 1,000 inhabitants in the territorial community, there are 1,000 inhabitants today, such as the Burstine GRES, and they don't know where the children are going with this excise or the ecological congregation. Unlike to support our claim, to dismember in such rural areas, to divide 10 and 15 into a district, and 15 into this rural, village council. Why Rejected? I don't understand motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u130	Honorable colleagues, of course, do not stay at the city’s borders or the village, which is the waste of businesses. To that end, 55 percent of this payment is accounted for in the district budget. And all the questions that arise outside the population area are solved by the funds that come into the conservation fund of the region, that is, the area. The same question was asked of Frov, who suggested that the area be left out of town. Exactly as well, there's no dirt left in the area, it's spread all over the area. So this proposal is also rejected. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I very much ask when I give the floor to call the amendment that you're making and to make the proposals accordingly. Now, Treyakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u132	Please pass the word to the National Deputy Nedava.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u133	Neda, I wanted to give him the next one. Neda, make a clear proposal, please. Neda, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u134	I very much ask you to make an amendment to the proposal that the law will take effect from 2017. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u135	What's the readout number? What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u136	And to vote in general, but without 2017. Ask for confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u137	What's that? What's the number? Please comment, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u138	I'm sorry, what about the entry rate from January 1, 2017? As this year’s budget, the general funds are already in place, we will vote for them today. A proposal was made on January 1, 2017. All these funds remain on local councils, not in a special fund, but in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u139	Do you support the proposal, or do you not support the offer that Neda has made?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u140	The committee has accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u141	Make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u142	The committee listened to the Ministry of Finance’s proposals, taking into account the introduction of January 1, 2017, because it is balancing this year’s budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u143	Please, dear fellows, Gordjeev. You explain the wording, I asked for it very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the point is that yesterday on the committee we decided to introduce this law 2830 of January 1, 2017. But today, in a discussion with the Prime Minister, with the Ministry of Finance, there is a position with factions to put it into effect right from January 1, 2016, so that this law will now be in the text of the budget law for 2016. Therefore, it is this position that we have been asked to uphold since 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u145	Please, from Minfina Umanski. Turn on the microphone, or the Prime Minister's seat is powerful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, we have, in fact, been further discussing this issue and making such a compromise. I suggest with what Mr. Gordieev said, but the government budget is 20 percent of that tax, and the rest goes to the local level. And we suggest that the 20 percent that go to the state budget go to the general government budget fund. And then it won't affect the balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u147	Please, Doubenko, one minute. And, dear colleagues, do not repeat the same offer several times. Doubenko, please speak and proceed to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u148	84th constituency, Tisminic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u149	Microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u150	Colleagues, 84th Tysminic constituency. John Ivanovich answered, not in fact, a colleague, but a district budget. The village of Bowshów, 55 million, receives an environmental tax in a year — one village. And in the area where all the waste goes to the villages of the area, all the other sediments get zero. So we have proposed, please, if not supported, that the French group will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u151	All right. Please, Oksana Jurinec, one minute. First, Mrs. Oksana, let the committee head comment, then I'll give you my word. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u152	In view of the lack of such a concept as the District Council, the basic level, the district budget, and the state budget, there was no such concept. So if you're going to make an offer, you have to process it. Put it on confirmation if the room supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u153	Thank you for your clarification. Please turn on the microphone, Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u154	If you can do that, but not from 2016, but from 2017, because the local budgets will have minus that 50 million, support for what it says now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we have two positions on this bill. He's in the second reading, and that's why we should actually be in the room right now. I ask the chairman of the committee once again to formulate the position of the committee. If she agrees with everyone, I'm putting the law on the vote as a whole. But if I don't agree, I'm going to put the MPs to a vote, and if it does, I'll put it all together. Mr. Chairman, please tell us how we can get out of this situation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u156	I am. The question was only that the district council was not a party to the distribution of funds under the Environmental Law. Tax on pollution. And it says: there's a base level -- a city, a village, a village, there's a district budget and there's a government budget. Since a new concept is introduced, environmental legislation does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u157	So, colleagues, so I'm just going to have to put out a vote first from the deputies, and if this proposal gets the majority of the votes, then we're going to vote in general. So this was Doubenko's amendment, right, or how do you make it? Who bugged her? Matvienko. Mr. Anatoly, Mr. Anatoly! Matvienka! Matvienka! I'm putting your amendment to the vote now. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment to the Anatolia Matviennek bill, which he sounded, the fourth amendment, under the microphone, under the stenogram and the microphone. Why don't you sound it again, Mr. Anatoly? Mr. Anatoly! Mr. Anatoly, as the author of the amendment, please speak to her so that the MPs know what they are voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to vote on this amendment. There's a language that we don't change anything except what's inhabited, where there's one or two thousand people, they get 50 or 60 million a year, they get this kind of environmental assembly. They're being asked by the district, "Give us some. Go ahead, give us a loan." They don't give loans, and they don't know what to do, and they don't know what to do. Well, that's true, Ivan Ivanovich! Thus, fragmentation is logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u159	So now I'm going to put Matvienka to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. This is the fourth amendment -- Doubenko and Matvienka -- which was rejected by the committee. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? The committee head has something to say. Sir, can we vote? So whoever supports Amendment 4, Doubenko and Matvienka, please vote. Please vote. [[17:11:59]] For 155 So the 4 amendments did not get the required number of votes. Thus, we concluded our discussion of the bill. Yeah? No more warnings? Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to vote in the committee with that. with a proposal from the Ministry of Finance that 20 percent go to the General Fund of the State Budget and enters into force on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u161	So the discussion is over. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote, right? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Purpose of Environmental Taxation (No.2830) as a whole. Second reading. In general. Please vote. Vote. [[17:13:42]] For 277 277 in favour, the decision is made. Welcome to the committee and the drafters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u162	Dear fellow national MPs! The offer to move on. 3631, 3630 are being prepared for consideration. 3703 is a question for inclusion in the agenda. I ask everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of Law 3703. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (37803). Next. 3651. 3651-1, this is about the National Bureau. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Sergey Lechchenko, prepared this law. Next: on financial restructuring, this is government law 3555. Next: 3325, this is the draft of the Law on the Market in Gas. Ensure the functioning of the natural gas market. And 3559, this is the draft Public Procurement Act. I'm asking them all to put in the order of the day session so that we can continue our work. Please, Your Honor, the offer to include in the agenda. Vote please, colleagues. The laws that I had just declared were in order of the day. Vote? Please vote for inclusion. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support everyone. Integrating in the daytime. [[17:15:28]] For 256 Decision taken. This, colleagues, was a proposal for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Now we're going to go to question 3651 and 3651-1. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for the establishment of a procedure for the transfer of criminal conduct investigated by prosecutors to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau), and 3703 we will prepare for consideration. Do you have a deal? And commission: 3559, the law included for consideration and decision-making today, let us once again vote on the proposal and the decision-making. Yeah? But making a decision. We're going to see him today, aren't we? Please, let's make a decision. Colleagues, stay, we'll vote now. Wait a minute, wait a minute! The previous proposal is to complement and make decisions so that we can now consider the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Yeah. Vote, please. We've now incorporated these laws into the agenda, now we have to give them a chance to look at them immediately, those who are ready. For example, 3651. After everything I've voted on right now. Please. Ready? Ready? We've just put the questions in the agenda. Although there is no need to vote, that is not the way the proposal was written here, for inclusion in the agenda and for making decisions. What we have is I'll put it to the vote. 3651, sorry, 36. Yes, 3651, 3651-1. There is a suggestion to consider them as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:17:26]] For 199 Thank you, colleagues, we're starting the discussion. 3651 reports Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u163	Good afternoon, colleagues! This is a law on which the viability of the newly created body, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, depends at all. The office we created to fight high-level corruption. It's a bureau that our Western partners support. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is to take over 10,000 volumes, two and a half thousand criminal cases that have been opened to the prosecution, the police, and so forth. Of course, this office cannot investigate such a vast array of cases that were not initiated by them, which have already been conducted for more than a year. So there is a suggestion that the National Anti-Corruption Office, by decision of a specialized anticorruption prosecutor or his or her deputies, decide for themselves what conduct is being investigated improperly, poorly, and which they may take for granted. The same conduct that has already been discovered should remain in the organs that started it. So we're going to give the anti-corruption bureau the opportunity to start with a clean sheet, not run the stuff-alls that's been under investigation for years. Including this, it is necessary for us to continue to investigate the issues of the so - called sanctions list, that is, the Janukovich environment. For more than a month now, there has been no real investigation into the affairs surrounding Yanukovich. Since the rules were in place that these matters should be transferred to the National Anticorruption Bureau. But it is unable to investigate effectively things that they have not started. These are tens of thousands of volumes to be studied by the NABA investigators. So there's an offer: let the cases that started with the Attorney General's Office of the Public Prosecutor's Office be left to them. If the anti-corruption prosecutor wants it, he has the right to take it. And this right should be enshrined in this bill, which is now being tabled. This is a proposal, including the Office of Special Investigations of the Attorney General’s Office, which is responsible for the Midan case and the Sanitation List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign two for, two against. Please. We're discussing Bill 3651 and Bill 3651-1. Reported: Lechchenko i. Has he reported or has he not? Kozemykin, did you report? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Andrew Kozemyakin, are you reporting? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you about the alternative bill 3651-1: the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on criminal conduct, which is being investigated by the prosecution's investigators. Colleagues, the question is very simple and must be resolved. First. The committee was approached by Mr. Coldnicki, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and Head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Artem Sitnik, who asked for a solution to this issue as soon as possible, because there are indeed many cases that will be passed or are bound under article 216 of the Criminal Procedure Code to go to the National Anti-Corruption Agency. They're really going to slow down, block the work of this agency. Thus, after the introduction of part five of article 216 of this Code, criminal prosecutions continue to carry out criminal investigations by the prosecution authorities, which use the powers of investigators defined in this Code until the conclusion of the preliminary investigation. But yesterday, on the committee, we made a decision, and we suggest that we make a proposal for a supplement, but not more than two years. And a dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u166	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Dear colleagues, there were a lot of people who wanted to speak, please sign up for two, two against. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u167	Please accept this law. He will allow us not to bury new anticorruption bodies under 22,000 volumes of cases, usually tufted in the language of criminals. And indeed, to engage in important anti-corruption investigations and, indeed, to start arresting high-level corrupts, including the Attorney General's Office. The law is good. Let's get him up to speed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u168	Thank you. Excuse me. Igor Lucenko, the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u169	Igor Lucenco faction of Fatherland. Dear friends, these laws must be passed as soon as possible, for by this date, it is likely that crimes against Maidan have been stopped for a month. In fact, investigators don't understand what they're going to do, and it's pretty bad for not only the processual perspective of these things, but for the moral climate in that group of investigators who actually have a lot of enthusiasm for this investigation. They are actively assisted by the public. And on behalf of the public, I also address the MP Corps: please vote, accept this legislation, which is necessary to continue the gravity of the investigation. Regrettably, the efforts of so - called pseudoreformers have created such a colossal gap in the legitimacy of the investigation. That's why I'm calling again: please, let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I've only got a line. Does everyone support this bill? Lensky's not speaking right now. I give my word to Chumaku. And then Novak, Peter Dustenka's Block, passes it to Lucenk. And that's where we end up. Two speeches: Chumok and Lucenko. Please, Chumak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, we are now considering two laws: 3651 and 3651-1. Both are aimed at the same thing in order to allow for the investigation of all the cases that are currently under way by the Attorney General's Office and, in the following, by the Special Directorate of Special Investigations of the Prosecutor's Office. But what difference does it make? Our proposal with Sergey Lechchenk is that such an investigation be conducted not later than 1 year, but only for a year. Our colleagues are serving for two years, and I think it's a very long term. Our second offer. We're giving you a chance. 5 is after the adoption of the Code. Andrew, 5 after the adoption of the Codex, read carefully. Read carefully. The second proposal that we're talking about and that's important enough, we're giving you the opportunity to take the lead on the important issues of the anti-corruption prosecutor. Why is this important? Because now the investigation remains in the hands of the Attorney General and the Attorney General can handle it himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u172	Please finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u173	And why is that important? Because the investigation remains in the hands of the Attorney General. We suggest that we hand over the investigation to the newly created anti-corruption prosecutor's office so that they can choose for themselves the kind of conduct that can be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u174	Three seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u175	I'm asking you to support Bill 3651. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u176	Thank you. And the final speech please, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko from the rostrum and we vote. The next question is very important, and I ask you to work effectively. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask your attention for a moment, because it's not really a technical question that's being solved. One of the great benefits of our activity with you is that we took the role of investigating in the Henprosecutor's Office. Sadly, both bills return this function in one way or another. I never agree with that, for I remember being driven around the Henprosecutor’s Office on a two - foot - long chain, and it was sanctioned by the prosecutor’s office and recognized as legal by his colleague from the prosecutor’s office, the prosecutor’s office. And this Soviet madness we buried this year because some of the officials, we created a national and corruption office, just in October mentioned the need to recruit detectives, we have to respond to this situation right now. I'll hold on myself. But please, in the first bill, apart from the extension of the term, the structure is still breaking. Henprosecutor's deputy will now be alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u178	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u179	What kind of business he's going to take, which he's not going to take, I don't think that's acceptable. The second bill preserves the structure of relations within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, and gives a two-year right to investigate cases agreed between two supervisors. It's a command job. Once again, I strongly oppose the return to the steel investigation model inside the GPA, but because of the inefficient work of the newly created organs, I urge you to make an informed decision by supporting Bill 51-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We have two bills: 3651 and 3651-1. A proposal from the profile committee, reported by Cosemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, 3651 reject, 3651-1 accept as a whole. But I'll put it in order of attack. So I'm the first to put Bill 3651 to the vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. 3651 as a basis, please vote. [[17:30:17]] For-96 96 for. The decision is not taken. I now make a proposal to the committee and a proposal just made by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. 3651-1, draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for the establishment of a procedure for the transfer of criminal conduct investigated by prosecutors to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine). Once again, 3651-1 is based on the Committee's proposal as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote 3651-1. Vote. [[17:31:09]] For 241 Decision taken. Welcome to the committee with an important decision. Dear colleagues, we've been postponing for a few days the question that we discussed yesterday, but which we haven't considered since Boris Filatov's absence. This is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Boris Filatov. And I ask this question now to report to the head of the committee, the deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Pinzenik and to support it. Very short. You don't have to? Mr. Boris. Please speak, let us give the floor to Boris Filatov to our colleague. Please come to the rostrum and turn on the microphone. How much? Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, there have been many different words from this rostrum, sometimes perfunctory, very often false. I want to tell you in plain human language, for me it was a very good life experience, I respect you all, I will miss you. Let me go with God, or I'll turn into a vagrant mayor. And I want to apologize to my colleagues. Maybe who he insulted with a word, a case, or a thought. Andrei Teteruk, I personally apologize to you. Sergey Beresenko. Let me go, I want to go home, my treasury is closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u182	Thank you. Mr. Boris, there's a budget job in Dnipropetrovsk. Let's work together, vote together, support our colleague. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Philatevo Boris (number 3522) as a basis and as a whole. We vote, colleagues, we support our colleague, we vote. We vote, we turn the system on. [[17:33:20]] For 314 Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Boris, on your fruitful, active work for Ukraine, for the community in Dnipropetrovsk and wish you success. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have the following bill on a daily basis. Now I'm going to figure out which one's next. We've got the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3555, please support the shortened procedure. Please cancel the procedure. [[17:34:46]] For 177 Thank you. 177 for it, it's up to you. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u183	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Your Honor. Your attention is on the draft Financial Restructuring Act. The bill is designed to deal with the negative effects in the financial sector caused by financial crises in Ukraine’s economy and to meet the Ukrainian party’s obligations to international financial organizations. The bill is designed to create an effective and effective mechanism for voluntary financial restructuring of the debts of Ukrainian enterprises and their prior rehabilitation. The draft was developed with the participation of experts from the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, taking into account international standards and the world experience of financial restructuring. The bill determines, inter alia, that the terms of the debtor and creditors' participation in the financial restructuring procedure and the participation of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the State Banks in such a procedure. The defined basic principles of co-operation between creditors during the financial restructuring procedure, the debtor’s obligation to provide information and review his economic activities are also laid down in the terms of receiving financing from the borrower during the financial restructuring process. The implementation of the bill will help to improve the financial and economic activities of debtors who are in a difficult financial position by restructuring their debt, ensuring that debtors have access to funding to restore their economic activity and to ensure the stability of Ukraine's financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u184	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fishing Committee, Sergey Viktorovich. The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. Head of the committee, please report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u185	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen! It's really a very important bill, but it hasn't been before us on the committee, and there's still no conclusion from this bill. As I spoke to the finance minister today, we agreed that on the next committee, next year we would first consider this bill. So I'm asking him to postpone it, and next year the first one we're going to consider is this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the committee requests that the bill be postponed. The government won't deny it. Yeah? Do I get it right? The government doesn't deny it. Then, honourable colleagues, so that we don't waste time, we don't have a discussion, we postpone the bill and we move on to the next one. I'm asking you to prepare it as soon as the committee's review takes place when all the necessary documents are available. And we're moving into Bill 3325 on a day-to-day basis. Is everyone ready for him? 3325. Lopushanski, head of the committee, Demšin Vladimir Vasilovich, are you ready? Is there a Demchisin? Yes. Then I ask you to support the proposal to consider 3325 with a reduced procedure. Please vote, I support. 3325 – summary procedure. [[17:38:49]] For-147 We didn't make it, we didn't make it. I ask you again, 3325 for the summary procedure, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please. [[17:39:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Demchisin Vladimir Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u187	Dear National Deputies! Today we propose to you a draft Law 3325, which provides for amendments to a number of legislative acts. Ukraine’s laws regarding the introduction of a full market in gas. It is proposed to amend 17 laws, various laws of Ukraine that should be brought into line with the Law on the Gas Market, which was voted in April, in accordance with the great amount of work carried out by the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers, external advisers, external participants and all participants in the local market. The law has actually been in effect since October 1, 2015, so in principle it is necessary to make changes. The list is big enough, and I'm going to sound like some of the most important ones that require immediate reflection in legislation. This is, for example, the Market Act. pipeline transport has been harmonized with the provisions of the Gas Market Act in the part of the operation of gas transport and gas distribution systems. A very important part of this law, which allows renting, concession or management to pay for gas transport networks. There was no such possibility. In accordance with the new Law on the Market in Gas, the Ministry of Energy and the Coal Industry will be able, within one month, to terminate those contracts that currently exist with the gas distribution companies and to make new leases, they are paid. The next important point is also, the law is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u188	Please, one more minute for the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u189	Another important point is to amend the Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act. By this law, these changes are intended to speed up the counting process by 1 April 2017 to set up accounts for all consumers, as well as to anticipate the creation of a single subscriber base. It's a very important step. Because there is currently no single gas consumer base. This enables some suppliers to manipulate data, to put gas on industry, industrial consumers, and to account for it as if it had been consumed by the domestic population. The price difference is three times, well, essentially. And that's enough going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u190	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u191	It's just 17 laws, so a lot of different changes. But there is another important point. I want everyone to note that these changes will definitely not eliminate any benefits and subsidies to gas consumers. So everyone who gets the grant will definitely get it in the future, and I want to pay attention to that. Please support this bill and vote for it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u192	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy Complex Lopushanski Andry Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u193	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market (registration number 3325), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is designed to bring some legislative acts into line with the special rules of law in force, the Natural Gas Market Act. These are basically changes to 17 laws, changes are technical. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, a bill can be adopted on the basis of considerations and observations. At its meeting on 4 November 2015, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a first reading review of Bill 3325. All your suggestions for this bill will be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand, the law needs to be discussed. That's why I'm asking you to sign up for two, two for the other. I'm asking you to record the factions. Please. Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. He's giving it to who?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u195	Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u196	Tymoshenko. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u197	Dear friends, this bill has been raised repeatedly to vote in parliament. And you know, there's a lot of good stuff going on here that you just can't vote for. First of all, the rights of consumers of natural gas are being completely nullified. They have no resistance to inefficient gas supply, and monopolistic rights are increasing. But it's still here that the main thing that's being passed on to concession, to rent, to use gas transport networks without any transparent procedures. It's pure corruption. And I kind of know who prepared it for adoption. It is impossible to vote for this, because if we fight corruption, we fight, if we imitate, we vote in favour of such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u198	From the People's Front, Mikhail Humil.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u199	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front. Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u200	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In fact, this bill aims to introduce the Natural Gas Market Act, which was adopted in the summer, and so far we cannot implement the reform, because a number of sub-legal and legal acts have not yet been adopted. This law is important from the point of view of many technical issues, as well as from the point of view of the return of the gas transport system to the cost-effective use of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since gas transport systems have been used free of charge to date. So this is very important. And I also want to remind everyone that in order to complete the reform of the natural gas market, we also need to adopt the Independent Regulator Act of NCRE KP, because without an independent regulator, we also cannot complete the reform and demonization of the natural gas market as well as other energy markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u202	Thank you. Please, Jurynec, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u203	Please pass the word to Oli Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, well, my colleague Natala Katzer-Buchkowska has really given a very important assessment of this bill. I just have to say that it is in this bill that there are so many very different changes that clearly need to be made between the first and the second readings, especially the part that relates to the paid use of gas distribution networks. I'd like my colleagues to support you in the first reading. And I think our committee is going to be very professional in addressing all the outstanding issues that relate to the use of pay. State gas distribution networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u205	Thank you. A self-help steering wheel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u206	Please hand over Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that this bill was also discussed at the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. And there are almost five pages of this bill that must be included in the second reading. Unfortunately, we do not have these comments from our committee, but they are extremely principled. And if we don't now vote to take into account the second reading of the comments of the Committee on Construction, Urban Building and the CLK, then we can't vote for this bill because we can't structurally change this bill and the key positions before the second reading. I want to draw attention to the changes made here to the LHC Act, to the LHC, which should be deleted. This is about the JCG Committee. The "Unification Self-Help" faction will never vote for changes like here in article 7 of the amendments to the Pipeway Transport Act. Ladies and gentlemen, privatization is permitted. I'm telling you, there is no ban on privatization. I read: "Part 6 of this article does not extend to the alienation of shares of particles/spies belonging to the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine." So it's actually allowed to privatize these shares/parts of strategic objects. Next. It is not written how state-owned companies will be transferred to use gas transport. gas distribution network. What does "use" mean? A completely new mechanism for the use of state property is being introduced, which should then be managed by state property. And it's not written on what terms. So once again, if the room voted today on the first reading of this bill, only on condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u208	Please finish the last 10 seconds of your sentence, not heard in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u209	The self-help faction will only then vote in the first reading for this bill, if it is put to a vote that, taking into account the second reading of the proposal by the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, is not allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u210	Thank you. So since the Chizmar faction, the Radical Party. Turn on the chizmar microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, by adopting this law, we need to realize that this fee for the use of distributed networks will then be translated into the tariffs of ordinary citizens, where tariffs are already high. But, no question, we have to accept the pay-as-you-go. But where will this money go? To this end, our honest minister's office has foreseen the creation of a bedrock that will balance all these networks, and then these networks, on an opaque basis, will distribute among other subjects and will keep the money and only 30 percent will go into the state budget, 70 will remain on this ledge, which we do not know, will determine the Ministry of Fuel and Energy itself along with the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we think it's a purely corrupt component, it should be more transparent, and the holding fund has to rent distribution networks, and all the costs, 100 percent, have to go to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u212	"The Opposition Block," Natalia Royal and then Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will not support the bill. Because we believe that the level of tariffs that our people pay today is no longer permissible. And the first challenge that needs to be addressed in Parliament is to reduce today's tariff burden on people. And those glorious subsidies that our Government often reports on, we also know that not all people have received and not all can take advantage of. That is why we do not vote in favour of this bill, and we do not vote in favour of the anti-constitutional decisions that are being taken in this room today. And we want to say that all decisions taken and in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine will be considered in the Constitutional Court and we will collect the necessary number of signatures of the people's deputies for that purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u214	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u215	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. So I see that more after the rape of the Tax Code, the rape of the Budget Code, the rape of the Constitution of Ukraine in the evening, most decided to privatize the gas transport system, and it was totally illegal. Because this bill has actually been considered and rejected on October 6, this year, because at the time the war went under number 3072. It's exactly the same bill. The very fact that it is in our daily order today is a direct violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. I'm going to the Apparatus right now, to the chairman that you're breaking the law, and you need to be judged that you're putting such things to a vote. And essentially this bill de facto allows through concession, through renting, to privatize the gas transport system. And even de jure allows you to accept the moments that Alona Babak reported. Moreover, after the transfer to the concession of a private legal person who will be involved in the operational activities, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u216	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u217	For not allowing any person into a gas transport system, a fine of 15,000 dollars will be imposed on such a private person. What is 15,000 dollars for multibillion dollars in the gas system?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u218	Ten more seconds, concentrate, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u219	About 30, about 10 seconds. But that is why I urge you not to break the law or vote in favour of this law, which will privatise Ukraine's gas transport system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u220	And, please, the closing word, Demchisin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for your questions. It's actually a very simple question. As long as you do not vote, the networks are used free of charge. So you could say that we invented a method of privatization, leases, they're now being used for free by distribution companies. So we're proposing that they be transferred to the rent, the concession, another kind of pay-per-view. It's about tariffs. Costs that will be collected by a state-owned enterprise that will be leased on the basis of a typical contract. A typical agreement developed jointly with the Holding Foundation and will be agreed by the Cabinet of Ministers, so this will be a balanced document. He is not yet in agreement, because this law is not voted upon, fellow workers. That's why we have to vote. And with regard to Mrs. Babak's comments, we met again and again and agreed that your 8 points, 8, not 5 notes, and 8 points will be included between the first and the second readings, I fully support you. But this is a technical issue that can be agreed between two readings. So today I asked to vote in the first reading, not in general. I'm hoping for your support, colleagues, we've made a deal with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u222	Thank you. So the discussion is over. You've done this before, haven't you? Did you mention the name Babak? Please, Babak's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u223	The point is that those eight points on the 5th page of the committee, they really are. They require structural changes to this first law. Therefore, we ask for a vote in the first reading, with due regard for the second reading of the proposals made by the Committee on Construction, Construction, and HKG. Only then will we vote and be able to make changes to the second reading that require structural changes and essentially some points.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the minister says there is no document that we can rely on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u225	Officially filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u226	Officially filed. Yeah? Then, if this formulation has a chance to pass, Mr. Minister, I'm going to put it in the formulation that Babak called, because otherwise he's just not going to have a chance to pass. Okay. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion was concluded. Let's go to the vote. You're ready, aren't you? I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market (number 3325) on the basis of the second reading of the proposals made by the profile committee: the Committee on Construction, Construction and HKG. So in this formulation, I ask you to vote on the basis. Please vote. Signal, give me the signal first. It's an emergency, let's go. Signal vote, let's see what our potential is. Please give me a signal vote. Vote. Please take part in the signal vote. [[17:59:29]] For-179 Votes are not enough for the bill. Can we still have potential or not? Then we put it off, and we will consider the questions discussed earlier. So, colleagues, there are no votes under the bill. The following day we have a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation" (as regards the inevitability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes), No. 3465. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[18:00:26]] For-143 I see there's a lot of people who want to go through the whole procedure? But not everyone made it. And so once again, I'm going to put a motion for a vote: to consider the bill in short motion. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:00:55]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u227	Honourable MPs, distinguished media representatives, respectable people of Ukraine! Last year, the Supreme Council amended the Code of Criminal Procedure and allowed the prosecution of persons who were hiding from the investigation and who had been investigated internationally. In our bill signed by members of the various factions, we propose to include among the articles under which prosecution is permitted, article 255 of the Criminal Code, “Creating a Criminal Organization”. We also propose that those who are wanted should be allowed to be prosecuted if they are wanted in Ukraine. To date, the Code of Criminal Procedure allows only those who are on the lookout for international action. This law is necessary for the people of Ukraine to know that the State protects the rights of citizens, including those who have committed a crime against Maidan. We understand that, as long as Putin Vladimir Vladimirovich is President of the Russian Federation, many people who have committed or have prepared to commit a crime will not be extradited to us. It is therefore necessary to enact this law in order to allow us to condemn in absentia such persons and others who will commit crimes against the people of Ukraine and hide outside our country. Please support this bill. Indeed, it is essential for justice to prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u228	Thank you. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement, discussed Project No. 3465 on amending certain laws of Ukraine" (as regards the inevitability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of existing legislation (declared, I warn you again!), which prevent the rapid detection of crimes, create conditions for the avoidance of criminal liability, delay judicial investigation and judicial review. Having examined the bill’s position, the members of the committee felt that the proposed introduction would not solve the existing problem of resorting to the procedure but would only create a basis for corruption and abuse of the organs of pretrial investigation. It has been established that a special trial or trial has been carried out since a person has been declared in conjunction with a finding of other crimes, not just crimes against the State, corruption and war crimes, will create grounds for ignoring the investigators and the court's need for such a search in general and for the "accelerated" (in paws) of any person's judgment. The bill in this section contradicts the task of criminal conduct in the matter of prompt and full investigation, and the invocation of the responsibility of the accused, and makes article 281 of the Criminal Procedure Code on the search for a suspect unworkable. In view of this, the committee decided to return the bill to the subjects of the right of legislative initiative to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u230	Obviously there is a need to discuss, is there? And that's why I'm asking you to sign two for, two for against. Please take part in the discussion. Please. Master Sergey of the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, those who do not remember well, I would like to point out that this law was adopted for the first time on January 16, 2014. January 16, 2014! And we called it dictatorial at the time, we called it non-democratic. After that, the minister of justice, who represented this law to us, said that his essential distinction with the law of January 16 was precisely what it contained. It only applies to people who are in international search. And now we're being asked to take this off and basically monkey, repeat the law on January 16th. We have a clear understanding of how this law can be applied and how it can be applied. A person may not even know that he is in an internal search, that he will be followed by an ocular trial, and that he will be executed with all the consequences. This is totally unacceptable and undemocratic. Instead of trying to properly investigate criminal cases, we are trying to introduce and push out various quasi-procedures that have nothing to do with democracy! All those who want to uphold the law that will ensure that politically motivated persecution can be carried out, all those who want to reproduce the law on January 16 are kindly requested to support the bill. I personally support the committee's decision. And I'm going to propose that this bill be returned to the authors for processing. That is so, very softly said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u232	Leonid Yemen, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u233	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Our faction will uphold this law. Because there are other ways to solve the problem of Yanukovic’s crimes. And I want to talk about something else. I want to appeal to the conscience of every MP. Think about the situation, for the second time today, I'm talking about those unhappy 72 judges who left the Lugansk and Donetsk region, our Ukrainian patriots. We need to spend 10 minutes working in Parliament to give them the opportunity to exist! What example do we set for everyone who wants to be a patriot in our country? What will the State forget about them that the State will leave them in their free will, without the possibility of being able to exist?Oh, my God! Make them criminals or beggars? Colleagues, Mr. Chairman, this is a matter of 10 minutes of the Supreme Council's work. I've talked to every faction of Parliament, everyone's backing this law. Let's just introduce it, vote, thank these people. And we will be grateful, including to ourselves, that we have given a gift of conscience to the people who are patriots of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u234	Thank you. Dudenko's Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u235	Dear colleagues! Now, the representative of the faction, who is part of the coalition, clearly said that the law, which, the bill that is currently being voted in this plenary hall, is worse than the dictatorship's law. Because really, on January 16, when I voted, I voted this law myself, I don't deny it, I confirm it. And it was aimed at a special criminal conduct in the event of an intergovernmental search or international search. And really, really, this bill shows who is really going to vote for this dictatorial law right now. Because actually this law is going to be a lever, a very serious weight in terms of any person, not those who are now announcing. It may really have nothing, no information on the criminal case under investigation, and without it it will be judged. So I have a very big request to think very carefully before pressing the green button. It's better to vote in red. With regard to the results of the vote in today’s plenary room. Some coalition representatives, former coalition representatives, spoke of the faction "The Opposition Block" as having taken part in the vote and voted in favour of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. We do not vote in favour of any law relating to amendments to the State Budget Act, the Budget Code. Yes, we voted on a bill that deals with changes in tax legislation, but these changes relate to building a strong economy and detining wages. But in no way will we vote for antisocial laws, for laws that remove the last social benefits that have now been voted in conspiracy by factions and some parliamentary groups. And we think this vote is unworthy. We need to draw some conclusions from citizens about those deputies who support and take the last legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u236	Skuratovsky passes the word to Oleg Lášk. A radical party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u237	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, every time you adopt one or more laws, you are motivated to do so in order to achieve results. We once passed here in Parliament the Law on Intangible Judiciality. Show at least one judgment in absentia on the conviction of those of the Yanukovic gang. The law is, the prosecution doesn't work, the courts don't work. How many more laws have to be passed? Why engage in lawlessness? I think in Ukraine there's quite enough normal laws, another issue that they're not being implemented. We have the Attorney General, along with the Attorney General's Office, sabotaging the investigation, we now have deputies in the Supreme Council. I'm talking to my former coalition colleagues. Can you imagine two years ago, a member of the Supreme Council sitting and boasting that I voted in favour of the laws of January 16, and not taking any responsibility for it? That is what your authority has led to. Two years later, he boasts, and a year later, with your politics, he will be given the Order for voting for the January 16 laws. That's where you led the country. We can imagine that after Maidan there were people in the Parliament Hall who were happy to report that we had voted in favour of those laws that had led to the victims in Maidan, which had led to hundreds of deaths. And all of us, and the entire Parliamentary Hall, reacts calmly, as if nothing happened, as if everything were normal, great heroism. Boys, respectable authority, not respectable authority, what have you led the country to? You're relieved of the responsibility of the Yanukovich gang. You're turning into the heroes of those who voted in favour of the January 16 laws. You're proposing these laws yourself. You're stealing the country. You're robbing her. You're doing everything Janukovich's gang did. What did you lead the country to? You can’t be ashamed because you simply have no responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u238	From Peter Prashenko's Block, Palamarczuk. Turn on the microphone. Palamarczuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have already passed the Law on Procrastination and Procrastination. This law was adopted when it was necessary to bring Yanukovich and his supporters to criminal responsibility. And the law has roughly written down that a trial by default investigation and a trial by default is being carried out by Ukrainian citizens who have committed crimes in the territory of Ukraine, whose whereabouts are known, but for any reason can not be brought to trial or to court. That is why we have given the opportunity, and today there is every opportunity to bring those people to the responsibilities that have fled from Ukraine and are in Crimea or Moscow or other cities. So I think there's enough ground for today and enough leverage to make it quality and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u240	Please finish the 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u241	This bill narrows down human rights and gives no right to protection. And I count, you can't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u242	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u243	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Look what's going on. Instead of actually investigating the crimes of Yanukovich and all his comrades, who, by the way, are now many participants sitting in this room and with whom some coalition deputies shake and hug and kiss each morning. Yeah? So instead of doing that, it's suggested that any citizen of Ukraine would be fictitiously challenged, because they would send a message somewhere unknown, and he wouldn't see it, and he could be judged in absentia, without his presence. What will that mean? For example, boys are fighting in the East, and they want someone to be hanged, they send him some kind of message where he wasn't five years old, he's on the front, and he's going to be tried in absentia at this point. And they will, because we have such judgments. Here's what's proposed. Instead of offering such things to the immoral, you better judge the criminals Janukovich, not be friends with them as you do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u244	Please, Heroshenko, 30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u245	Deputies! When voters ask you why some criminals have been hiding abroad for years and why they have not been brought to court and betrayed, you can safely say that I voted against the law proposed by Anton Gerashchenko and a group of colleagues. And then you'll never be able to explain to people why we can't bring them to justice. Because you won't vote for it today. And I ask you to support this law, and then we will bring to justice the entire gang of those who hide abroad and may be staying with Putin for another 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u246	So, dear fellows, we're going to have a signal vote first. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm putting a signal vote on the bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (as regards the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes) number 3465 as a basis. Signal vote. Please take part in the vote, we vote. Signal vote. What's the big deal? [[18:16:49]] For-80 Dear colleagues, I will also make a signal proposal to the committee. The committee's proposal to reintroduce the subject of the legislative initiative. Signal vote. Whoever supports this proposal from the committee, please vote. Please give me a signal vote. [[18:17:27]] For 134 Dear colleagues, none of the decisions are supported in the hall. Dear colleagues, we have the next drafts of the day to re-examine the laws proposed by the President of Ukraine. These bills require a special signal from the review system. So, colleagues, the re-examination system with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, it needs a special procedure, and we can't change that procedure. The first of those bills is 1123. This bill is extremely important for the dispossession of the state media, in which the President of Ukraine introduced the amendments, but these amendments are completely in the logic and philosophy of the bill. And that's why I have a request that we will be able to consider this bill quickly and effectively. First, for the report. So Bill 1123 is under consideration. And the report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u247	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 24 November 2015 the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Press, issued by 1123, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, taking into account the following. The law that has been signed proposes to reform the printed media and editorial systems established by public authorities, other government authorities, and local authorities. The law establishes ways of reforming public and municipal printed media and editorials accordingly. Yes, during the reform, when the relevant government authorities come out of the formation of founders, co-founders of printed media and editorials, the necessary conditions remain: the preservation of the name, the purpose of the purpose, the thematic orientation of the printed media. It should be noted that there is no obligation under the law to preserve the languages of the publication, the reformed public and municipal media. This approach causes the risks of reducing the number of publications in the national language, which in turn should not be overlooked in the context of information aggression on the protection of Ukraine's linguistic and information space. The Head of State points out that national language policy must be based on the general principles enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine, which oblige the State to ensure that Ukrainian language is fully developed and functioning in all spheres of social life. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine is proposing legislatively to strengthen the obligation of the printed media to preserve the languages of the publications when reforming. The other one. In addition, part two of article 1 of the Act provides that the printed media, which formally publish the laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the ministries, other executive bodies and other bodies, whose acts are subject to national registration in accordance with legislation, as well as the mechanism for the implementation of provisions on official publication and the taking of effect of such legislation, are defined by the relevant laws. This situation takes effect on January 1, 2016. In view of the above, with a view to preventing the emergence of a legislative uncertainty on official publication and the taking of effect by decrees of the President, part two of article 1 of the Law, which has been signed, is proposed to devote solely to the question of defining the scope of the law. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the above-mentioned law with his motivated and formulated proposals to the prescribed law. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u248	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee of Words and Information Policy, Sümar Victoria Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, this is a very important reform. And I have recently mentioned that this is actually Ukraine’s commitment to a whole range of international organizations. And the Ukrainian Parliament has given good will and green light to this reform, which has been extremely important to us. The president of Ukraine vetoed this law. Our committee unanimously made a decision yesterday: we consider it a misunderstanding. Because the President's remarks are of a technical nature, but the important thing is that they do not interfere with the implementation of this reform. The Committee on Freedom of Speech is once again asking the House to support the President's remarks, which are of a technical nature, so that these technical moments can be removed and that the reform can be implemented, and we can. So that this law could work as early as next year. And in this key, there's still fear that there's not going to be anywhere to print printed editions to the authorities. That's not true at all. The law clearly states that every authority has the right to leave a printed edition that does not use the creative work of journalists but publishes texts. According to the decrees, or when it comes to a parliamentary newspaper, articles by national deputies, factions, analysis of legislation. But there is no use in the creative work of journalists. That's what the law was about. Nothing's going to stop it in this case, but we have to complete the reform here. And such rudiments of Soviet time, such as the state press, must finally be eliminated in Ukraine in 24 years of independence. A great request to support the President's proposals. The author is still asking, and I have a proposal for you, Andriy Volodymyrovich, to put up a signal vote. It's a very important vote for us, for all the media, and I think for the President of Ukraine, too. Therefore, if there are no votes, it is likely that the final vote will be postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u250	Of course, I'll put in an alert, but we have a procedure -- we have to go through it completely -- now the question to the reporter. So, Mrs. Victoria, please stay in the rostrum. And I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please record the question. Please. Peter Dustenka's Block. Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u251	Thank you. Vladislav Golub, Block Petra Poshenko, 197 constituency, Cherkashina. Please give my word to my colleague Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, on behalf of our copyright team -- from me and from Alexander Rafkatovich Abdullin -- I would like to confirm the position of the committee that we want this law to start working clearly from January 1, 2016. That any two or three-pronged situations that there are two technical amendments that the President's apparatus has decided to introduce to us, I don't want to appreciate it, but I think the committee has done just fine. And I would like to ask Mrs. Victoria to make a clear statement to all the local authorities that, after she has voted two amendments and has sent the President to sign the new bill, the law will be signed by the President and will be effective as of 1 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u253	The committee supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u254	Jemetz Leonid Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u255	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear Victoria Petrovna, I absolutely trust your qualified position, we will definitely support you. And I, in turn, as I promised on every issue that will be in order today, will raise questions about the unfortunate patriotic judges that the Ukrainian Parliament today makes either beggars or corrupters. Colleagues, well, we don't have the right or the right to go to the new year without having to decide. It's just not human. I call on the chairman to put the daily bill 3328 in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u256	Only responds that the chairman does not have the authority to include the bill in the agenda. It's just for information. Dovbenko, Block of Petra Dustenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u257	Please tell my colleague Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal of the head of the Victoria Sumar Preparatory Committee and the head of the Committee on Ecology, who chaired this committee, Mikli Tomenko. Because, in fact, we've been fighting for media disposal for many years, and we really need to end this rudimentary thing when we have not the circuit newspapers, but the bulwarks and the tribunes of the district authorities, where journalists are really standing just, you know, by serving the local authorities under their pressure, and this is our very serious commitment to the Council of Europe, or not the only one that remains unfulfilled. Obviously, the session room should support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, imposing a veto on its law. But in the same way we have to support this bill with the President's proposals, it will be a very responsible and correct decision. And my question to Mrs. Victoria. Ms. Victoria, local, regional journalists are very concerned about what will happen under this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u259	Please, let me finish, the opportunity. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u260	What will happen under this law with the editorial boards and with the property of the editor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u261	The law is very clear, it has really been in line with all the texts, it foresees the possibility of reforming who wants to over the next year, and if the teams don't want it, they have a transition period of three more years. The property is the same if the collectives want it, in fact, if the property is owned by the authorities, for example, the rental of the premises, it stays at the same price 10 years in advance as it was. The property is left to them. Collectives can become the founders of newspapers themselves, just the authorities come out of their founders and have no power to influence them. That doesn't mean, I repeat, closing the editions. This means that these publications will not now be controlled by the authorities and authorities required to leave, and journalists ’ teams can offer their business models and publications can live in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u262	Paul Kishkar, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u263	Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u264	Please, Sverk from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law for the print media is as important and significant as the Law on Social Speech for Television. So I ask you very much to support this bill along with the President's regulations. Unfortunately, we don't have the President's signature right now, but we have to have this signature by 1 January next year. Therefore, I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u266	I thank the faction of Peter Dustock for such a position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u267	Olya Chervakova. Her deputy Tomenko gave her his word. Last performance. Olya Chervakova. And we're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, indeed, the President's veto is a misunderstanding, but the amendments and remarks made by the President to this law were partly in the Council of Europe's comments. So it was also a misunderstanding to vote in the first and second readings, and generally in favour of this bill, because in principle there was something to do. But I want to assure you, we have a working group, we have committee hearings, we will bring this law to our minds. The National Journalists’ Association prepares revisions for him, and so do we. It is an honor for us to make it quality and to bring this reform to an end. Please uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, and there are completely fines that are supported by all the factions that the President of Ukraine has introduced. The question is, do we have enough votes in the room? And so, my fellow Members, I very much ask all the deputies to come into the voting room right now. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come from the towers to the hall and take part in the vote and ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that a vote is about to take place. Of course, I'll put it first -- it's a signal vote. But we would very much like to be able to make a decision and to be able to resolve the matter today rather than delaying or waiting. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that a vote will take place. Dear colleagues! Signal vote. Please take up your jobs. And I'm putting to the vote, a signal vote on the proposal -- the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Community Printed Media -- number 1123, adopted as a whole, taking into account all of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Signal vote. Please vote, take part in the vote. Vote, please. [[18:34:55]] For-179 Let's do it again, once more alert, company. If there are no votes, let's move on. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Dear colleagues, once again in a signal vote, 1123. Signal vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote 1123 with the President's proposals. Please. Voting, supporting. [[18:35:52]] For-200 Shall we pick it up or not? Colleagues, we're going into the hall. We're missing literally a few votes. I ask the factions to inform the deputies that it is an extremely important issue that needs to be resolved today. I'm asking my fellow deputies to call their colleagues. It's not me to address, it's factions and factions. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies to come into the hall for five minutes and take part in the vote. Please come in. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to Olga Cervakova, this is what journalists, regional media and the entire progressive part of Ukrainian journalism and society expect. Be Responsible! Stay focused! Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. As the MPs enter, Ira Heratchenka will explain the special importance of this bill and convince everyone to vote. Please, Ira Heratchenka, one minute. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, there's actually a very interesting story going on right now. You can see very clearly who is not in the regions and who does not communicate with the regional media. Because those MPs in the regions that communicate with the regional media know that no air, no pers conference happens without asking when the media will be dispossessed, when we will be deprived of this slavery, and so will we. Just the founders. will our local authorities come out? And so, in fact, we are now addressing all the MPs who have left the session room, asking on behalf of the journalist lobby who works in Parliament in various factions, asking our colleagues to return to Parliament and take responsibility for our commitment to the Council of Europe and actually to our regional journalists. We've created social television. And the second commitment is media resolution. We need to support this bill. We ask you very much: we will focus and we will vote on the President's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u271	Dear colleagues, the law is non-conflict, unifying. I'm asking the deputies to take up jobs. Fellow MPs who have not yet entered the hall, enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote. Ready? I'm re-voting 1123 with the President's proposals. Signal vote. I'm asking everyone to support the deputies. Please vote. Please, 1123. Vote. Signal vote. [[18:38:56]] For 221 Colleagues, please don't leave the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm asking you to step back into the hall. I ask that my colleagues be summoned by faction, now Lord Ariev, one minute, I ask to invite the deputies into the hall. One minute, while Vladimir Ariev is speaking, I hope that five progressive deputies will come into the room and vote. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, which is now quite clearly mentioned by Stephen Kubi. This is about the protection of the Ukrainian language of the edition during dissipation. Today, we have 18 percent of printed publications in Ukrainian. And where the guarantee is that the new owner will not choose to change the language of publication. Today, we have English as a beggar. And so today, the President of Ukraine is defending the Ukrainian language as a guarantor of the Constitution. I'm sorry, but who doesn't vote now, who doesn't go into the hall now, speaks against the Ukrainian language. But I believe that the whole Parliament will unite around to support the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u273	Thank you, dear colleagues. Five progressive deputies entered. Did you see them all? Everyone's seen it. That's why we're getting ready for the signal vote. Take up jobs. And, honourable colleagues, the 1123 vote with the President's proposals. Signal vote. Please vote. Please. We vote. [[18:40:50]] For 230 Staying in the workplaces, respectable colleagues. Prepare to vote. And I'm voting on the Ukrainian Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media with the President's proposals, taking into account all of the President's 1123 proposals. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote, 1123. [[18:41:34]] For 235 Decision taken. Welcome to the chairman of the committee. Welcome to the President's representation on the Supreme Council. This was a strong and decisive decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Stay close. The next bill will be the President with the papers. Next: The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening the guarantee of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, also under a separate procedure. And I invite you to the report of President Ivan Stepanovich of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Cuba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u274	On November 3, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen guarantees of respect for the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons at number 2166. The Act stipulates, among other things, that in the event of a miscommunication by an internally displaced person, when returned to an abandoned place of residence, the decision to cancel the document on the removal of the listed person shall be made on the basis of: First: data on a prolonged absence of more than 60 days at a place of residence. Second, and information on her movements within Ukraine, which gives reasonable reason to believe that she has returned to an abandoned place of residence. However, the law that came upon the signature of the President of Ukraine does not define an authorized authority to demonstrate the absence of an internally displaced person at the place of residence and to confirm his movements within Ukraine. In addition, the law does not regulate the mechanism to verify that there is a prolonged absence of internal displacement of persons at the place of residence and information on their movements within Ukraine. In this regard, the head of the structural unit on social protection will be deprived of the possibility to make a rightful decision on the cancellation of the above - mentioned claim manual for the internally displaced person. Since, according to part two, article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, officials of state authorities and local authorities are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been invited by the President of Ukraine to apply the veto to that law. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine is proposed. First. To address the above-mentioned issues in the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (as regards strengthening the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of internal movement of persons and to further develop them). The other one. Identify the body of officials that relies on the identification of the absence of internal movements of persons by residence and confirmation of their movements within Ukraine, as well as the mechanism for verifying such information and the long-term absence of internally displaced persons by residence. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u275	Please, the head of the Human Rights Committee, Mr. Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, the situation is similar to the previous law that we discussed during the discussion of this bill, and I recall it refers to over 1 million 500 thousand of our fellow citizens, forced displaced persons or internally displaced persons, as they are called. This Law 2166, which we supported in November of this year, actually allows these people to feel more confident in a territory that is not their own; they were forced to leave their homes. For example, this law deprives them of the need to renew the help every six months, and the procedure for updating the help is a source of corruption. Now that these proposals were made, we found that this was actually a reinsurance policy, if we read carefully the law that was there, we saw that this mechanism was actually foreseen. During a committee discussion in the presence of representatives of the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, supporting the President's proposal to amend the law in the appropriate part of the committee, proposed a mechanism for the availability of information, such as establishing the absence of an internally displaced person for more than 60 days at a place of residence. Appropriate changes were made to Article 12 of this Law. It was supported unanimously by the committee, and I also want to address all factions now, whether it's factions of the coalition or those representing the opposition, it's ours with you fellow citizens. It's not about excise duties, not VAT, it's about the fate of one and a half million Ukrainian citizens. So I'm addressing, Andrew, please call the deputies to this room, and we need not leave them now or make them feel like beggars again in the new year on their own land. All the President's remarks are taken into account, and a hundred percent vote is supported by a committee. I urge everyone to uphold this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u277	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me explain to you the logic of today's work. I have many deputies coming to me so that we can concentrate. Look, colleagues, I'm asking you a lot, we have this Presidential bill on a daily basis, which is very important, and then there are two more defense bills. Let's at least focus on them, we'll definitely announce a break. The break will be announced by 10: 30 p.m. when the budget is presented. But at least for this time, let's focus on those bills. Mr. Gregory, there are now answers to the reporter. Dear colleagues, who have urgent questions, please sign up for talks and questions. And I'm asking you to turn the system on, record the performances. Kishkar Paul, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u278	Please pass the word to Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u279	Alona's Scrum, the Fatherland faction, my colleague, well, it happened that this law that we started preparing with public figures and other deputies from different factions before this Parliament took an oath. This law took him a year to read first and second. And then the President vetoes it. Colleagues, well, that's a shame, I'm afraid. So it happened that we have a faction of Gregory the Nemira, who is from Donbas, and there is my colleague, Alexy Ryabchin, who is himself a migrant. And we realize that we can't just throw ourselves at the free and bureaucratic process of bullying over 1 million 600,000 displaced persons. You know, I think we should just apologize in between right now. to those people who can't normally exist in their country because of bureaucracy, being our citizens, and because of the war, losing everything in fact. Let's now support this bill. We'll all go into the hall and finally show them that we appreciate them as citizens, that we're proud of what they're doing for Ukraine, what we think.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u280	Please give us the opportunity to finish. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u281	Colleagues, please let's all support this bill, and in the new year we will enter with a completely different attitude towards our Ukrainian citizens -- 1 million displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u282	Please, Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u283	I thank Alona Skrum for his clear position. I'd like to make one point clear. So the President didn't return because he's conceptually against it, he's backing this bill. The point is, really, for bureaucratic reasons, when one of the structural departments of the Cabinet of Ministers decided to panic, and when we raised that question at the committee meeting, we really, really admitted that we were afraid, we apologize. But for what they've said, for a month, these people have continued to exist and to be "excuses" under the old procedures. It is never too late to correct these mistakes, and I urge you to do so today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u284	Thank you. Abdulin Alexander, please. Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u285	Please pass the word to Alexia Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u286	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Well, really, just asking your colleagues to support the bill and support the movers. Unfortunately, this bill has disappeared to a very important standard when we trust people who are Ukrainians who have returned to that territory that we control, and we do not require them to confirm their status, unfortunately, this rule is reversed with changes by the President, that people should confirm their status every six months, and that's not very good. There's even a rule that social services can get information from volunteers, from other people. It's disrespectful to these people, but even with these remarks there is a request for support and there is a request for the government to create a focal point for the only, perhaps at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister to deal with the migration issues. Their questions are, unfortunately, in the executive branch, unfortunately, no one does as the people of Crimea and Donbas do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, I'm just going to say a few words before I give my word to the head of the committee. I have 11 more speakers, of course, and I will definitely give Mr. Chubarov my word. Just let me tell you one important thing. I see each of the speakers supporting this bill. The greater the number of speakers, the less likely the bill will be voted on. It's a very simple mathematical truth, it's banal, but I'm not going to limit anyone in any way. I will give honestly, and you treat this word as you think it is necessary. Now, at a separate request, I ask you to turn on Chubarov's microphone, turn on the microphone, and then it's Yemen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u288	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, well, I'm really going to be very brief. But this law is awaited, awaited, and yet to come out of the fact that our lives will daily be subject to new and new questions that need to be resolved. And we will address this law again and again, perhaps working on new laws. I would very much ask the faction leaders to call on all members of their deputies and to vote and support and to thank our people for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u289	Thank you. Doubenko, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u290	Please pass the word to Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u291	Packet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u292	Dear friends, the Peter Prashenka bloc will support this bill. I'm asking you very much, I urge everyone, because this is the only bill that's worked with those citizens who were forced to leave their homes. In our committee he found unanimity approval and those bureaucratic norms that were allowed, errors, the Cabinet of Ministers and other authorities, were removed. Now we have to go through these bureaucratic procedures and vote on it. Let's, if we can't help these people financially, let's help them with at least a simplified procedure of being in our territory. These are our citizens, these are Ukrainian citizens. Please support everyone. And, Mr. Chairman, please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u293	Every single one of you who speaks after this speech calls me to put me to the vote. Yemen, please turn on the microphone, Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u294	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, the People's Front, the city of Kiev. Mr. Head, you said we had literally 3-4 questions, and then we'd have a break until 10:00 or 11:00. I'm asking you very much, once again, to go back to the law that is essential to 72 patriot judges, to put this bill into the agenda so that we can get there -- we have plenty of time -- so that we can vote it. Plenty of time. And I promise that I will go through the towers, go to the buffet and catch the deputies and bring them there, personally invite them to come to Parliament and vote here as our duty requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u295	Mr. MP, I'll give you an answer after all. To read the Rules: There is no authority to place the presiding officer in the Rules. This is not a private bench where you can set or remove it from the Rules. If there is such a position, I will now put it to the Supreme Council vote to include it in the agenda. This will be the will of the deputies – we will include. This is not the mandate of either the Head or the Chairman, it's just the authority of the Hall. And so when you talk to me, not to me, to the head of the faction, to the Conciliation Council, not to me. I have no right to change the order of the day. It's a deal, isn't it? Thank you. So, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u296	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the last Parliament has adopted the Law on the Status of Internally Moved Persons for the first time. And this law was extremely favourably and positively supported by both the Council of Europe and other international institutions. But really, this bill has a number of flaws because Ukraine first encountered this problem. And so it's very important that we now support the President's draft law, which is really technical in order to facilitate the fate of hundreds of thousands of people with this help, with humiliation, with corruption, really, and vote in favour of this bill. It is also an extremely important day before the January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where there will be a lot of questions before the Ukrainian delegation as to how Ukrainian authorities today protect the internally displaced people we are making for these Ukrainian citizens who, through Russian aggression, have found themselves in difficult conditions. And I ask you by your vote to support our Ukrainian delegation, because this session will be extremely important and difficult for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u297	Thank you. Please, Eutusek Sergei, the "Fatherland" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u298	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Natalia Veselovy, "self-help" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u299	Wesley's. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u300	Indeed, a million 600,000 displaced people await the adoption of this law. The bill was filed on February 18th of this year and has not yet been adopted. So I urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u301	Thank you. Stashuk Vitaly Filimonovich, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u302	I propose to stop the discussion and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u303	Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u304	Supports. The Kugel of Alexander. Supports. Kodola. Supports. Barna. Supports. And I have the only warning that they asked me to give Dekhtyarczuk technical notice. Turn on the Dehtyarchuk microphone. 30 seconds. And we're going to the vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u305	Alexander Dehtyarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u306	I'm sorry. Until you started talking. Dear colleagues, in one minute, the vote will begin. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, concentrate, vote. Please, who's in the towers, who's in the talks, come into the hall, there's going to be a vote. I'm sorry, I'd like to give you one minute of Dehtirczuk from the beginning. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u307	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, U.S. 154 constituency. Respectable Society! We recently voted on a bill extending the powers of local self-government authorities to provide administrative services. And the rules of law that we're considering today were about the work of the administrative services centers, and also partly about the own bill that I mentioned. So the request is to be included in the Transitional Positions of this law. It also amends the relevant law on the provision of services, centres of administrative services, for help to internally displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u308	Mr. Gregory, please comment and immediately state your closing word and your suggestions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u309	Thank you for the offer. I am sure that if there is a will, such a law can be applied later. But right now, you don't think he should be an enemy of the good. So by procedure, unfortunately, it's not possible to take your proposal into account right now. I want to draw attention to two aspects that all colleagues should take into account. First. When we speak and adopt many laws when we say: this is a law to strengthen Ukraine's security, to strengthen the strength of our army, so that the National Guard would be one that would not be ashamed of it, that it was a defense order or something. At times, even hysterical notes can be found. Now we're talking fate, listen, colleagues, at the far side of the hall, 1 million 650 thousand of our fellow citizens with you. In honor of Ukraine as a nation that does not bow to an aggressor, who does everything not just to maintain the loyalty of our fellow citizens with you, but to keep these citizens from feeling abandoned. It's not about a national minority, it's not about discrimination, it's about taking into account fate and making it easier for 1 million Ukrainians to become victims of aggression in Ukraine. I'm surprised at the absence of deputies from the Opposition Block in this sector right now. Few of you. Call all your colleagues, please, because this is the vast majority of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Why are you the only one sitting here? Please call on your colleagues to come and vote. The same is true of two MPs. I urge you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u310	Please, one minute. Finish it, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u311	The leaders of the factions of Peter Dustenk's Block, the People's Front, have called on those who are now missing so that we don't postpone this law again today, so that we can get at least 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u312	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm once again inviting MPs into the hall. I will, of course, put up a signal vote first. We had a discussion, if there were no votes, we would vote later, but we wanted to concentrate so that we could vote. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. And I'm putting a signal vote on the Ukrainian Law 2166, taking into account the President of Ukraine's proposals. Signal vote. Please vote. [[19:04:09]] For-183 Let's do it again, guys. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Shall we try it again? We won't be any more. It doesn't make any sense. Yeah? Dear colleagues, let's do it again. They say they didn't make it. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to inform the secretariat of what is going on in the vote, and most importantly, this is a matter of internal-fractional discipline. Please pass the factions on to the hall. And I'm re-voting the Ukrainian Law 2166, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote 2166 with the President's proposals. Please vote. [[19:05:23]] For 197 Dear colleagues, the bill is under discussion. Only when we have enough votes will we vote. Dear colleagues, I still have a request for you. So we can have two more bills, two more to discuss. It's the second reading, it's about defense, it's about society. I know, of course, everyone's tired. Everybody wants to get some rest. But it's a matter of state defense. Dear colleagues, we consulted. We have defense issues, we have second reading. We can't just talk about the second reading. We're gonna have to vote for every turn. And unfortunately, the fact that we don't have enough votes in the room is bad. But we will meet today to be able to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Dear colleagues, at 23 p.m., we are meeting in this room to adopt the budget of Ukraine. 23.00. 23.00. Yeah, we're going to 23:00 in this room. There'll be a budget committee at 10:00. We're meeting at 11 o'clock to be able to accept Ukraine's budget by midnight. We made a decision this morning that we were working until the budget was adopted. It will be a responsible evening, a responsible night. I'm asking everyone in these hours to get all the documentation we've adopted today, the changes to the Tax Code, to prepare for the budget, and at 11:00 we're going to meet here to make a decision for our country. Thanks, guys. I'll see you later, 11 o'clock in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u313	Good evening, dear fellows! It's good to see you all. And on your behalf, I would like to personally welcome all the believers who are celebrating Christ's Christmas on the Gregorian calendar today. I think it's incredibly symbolic. I want to greet everyone, wish everyone good, health, success, warmth, peace, and let this star warm us all. And I am convinced that today we will continue our work successfully, and I think it is our responsibility, especially today. Well, now we are. Now we'll wait. We'll wait for colleagues and continue our work. The work is now ongoing on the committee, and on the top of the government meeting, everyone is working. Work, there can be no breaks. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, while the work of the committees and the government is ongoing, there is a proposal to start discussing draft laws that are defined by the agenda. If there's no objection? Is there no objection to starting legal discussions? 3703: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard. 302 national deputies in the hall, we didn't close the meetings. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dustock's Block, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u314	Dear Mr. Head! Prior to the announcement of the recess, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council put to a signal vote Law 2166 with the veto of the President and with his amendments, and unfortunately there were not many people left in the room at that time, and we agreed after the recess to return to the vote for Bill 2166, where there are amendments of the President who are only technical in nature, but whom the settlers are waiting for, and so is our commitment. We propose to go back to voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u315	I fully support him, he's been discussed. And once we have the necessary number of deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which can ensure a successful vote, we will definitely go to the vote. And now I propose to start discussing those laws that stand in order of the day. Is there no objection? We're working on it, dear fellows. Please, 3703, draft law. We have two choices: Or 150 votes, and we're looking at it in a simplified way? That's only if everyone votes. Or let's do the general procedure. Shall we try a shortcut or not? Shall we try it? Oleg Kuprienko says, signal. Colleagues, please, we need 150 votes on this. I'm asking everyone to support the proposal, and we're going to start a discussion of the Ukrainian law on "Nacwardia." Please vote. [[23:24:39]] For 116 This magical sound of voting, I think now will add strength and opportunity. Let's vote again in favour of the shorter procedure of discussion 3703. Ready? Please support everyone to begin the process. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, [[23:25:51]] For 134 That's better. Yes, yes, the people's deputies are coming into the hall. Let's do the same offer again. Colleagues, focus. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure and start the discussion: 3703. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:27:01]] For-151 Thank you. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u316	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Once again, we will put the reduced procedure with hope and faith that the deputies have entered the hall, reconsidered their position, and ready to vote. Come into the hall, who's all in the towers? So I'm going to make another offer. The report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Parliament of Stepan Kubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u317	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Guard Act on Improving the Legal Principles of the Ukrainian National Guard (Registration No. 3703), introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The amendments proposed by the bill are based on the need to clarify and improve the provisions of the Ukrainian National Guard Act, bringing them into line with the Ukrainian Constitution. At the same time, meetings and discussions at yesterday’s meeting of the Committee have been discussed with a clear view to improving and facilitating the quality of the organization of the National Guard of Ukraine. At the same time, a number of positions are specified in the current law on the maximum number of Ukrainian National Guards, which refers to the entire composition, not just military personnel. At the same time, it is anticipated that during a special period, the number indicated is increasing by an appropriate number of personnel assigned to military service to carry out Presidential decrees on mobilization approved by Ukrainian laws. It is important to note that the bill deals with the issue of the powers of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the National Guard of Ukraine during the war. This is due to the fact that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which includes the National Guard of Ukraine, is not a military authority, but only involved in the implementation of military measures. In addition, it should be noted that it is settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u318	Please continue with Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u319	In addition, the order of conscription of convicts is being regulated, which has not yet been defined by legislation. The anticipated possibility of military service under the contract of the National Guard of Ukraine to foreigners and stateless persons. In addition, to note that according to the current legislation, the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine is appointed to office and is dismissed from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the President of Ukraine. However, this moment, the agreement that was discussed yesterday at the committee meeting and accordingly had a discussion of people who are military and who have good experience in military formations, state of emergency, military status, the bill proposes a number of changes that were clarified at the committee meeting yesterday. At the same time, to fully accept and sound the changes that have been made in the bill as well. during the discussion. The meetings of the President, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine will be made public by the head of the committee. And at the same time, we want to support today's legislative initiative by the President of Ukraine to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u320	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u321	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences, distinguished journalists, good night to all of you! Nothing changes, as in previous years everything repeats, well, I guess that's the way it should be. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 23 December considered the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act on Improving the Legal Principles of the National Guard of Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as an urgent one. Hence, it is viewed in such a difficult time for the country. The purpose of the bill is to bring the provisions of the Ukrainian National Guard Act into line with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the appointment of the commander of the Ukrainian National Guard, whose, unfortunately, has been missing for a year now, clarification of the tasks of the National Guard of Ukraine regarding the protection of the constitutional system of Ukraine, the integrity of its territory, the protection of public order, the protection of public authorities and special objects. The project also addresses the issue of the participation of the National Guard in the cessation of group misconduct of persons held in custody, convicted persons, and the elimination of the consequences of such acts in pretrial detention facilities. The other one. Improving the structure of the National Guard of Ukraine includes, inter alia, an organizational unit in the structure, such as a compound that may include brigades, regiments, battalions, troops, and so forth. Third. Settlement of the appointment of the heads of structural units of the National Guard National Military Authority of Ukraine, the military administrations of operational units and the higher educational institutions of the National Guard of Ukraine. Four. Establishing the maximum number of all personnel, not just military personnel. Fifth. Authorize the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to the National Guard of Ukraine during the war. Having examined the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies consider it to be right, relevant and worthy of support. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law No. 3703 be adopted as a whole, together with the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Lucenka, the King and Cuba, with regard to the addition to article 5 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act. Let me read under the transcript a new piece of article 5 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act: "Creating, reorganizing and eliminating the operational and territorial units of the Ukrainian National Guard, their military administrations, associations, military units, military units, military forces, bases, health facilities and Ukrainian National Guards within the framework of the totality and allocated funds of the Ukrainian State Budget is carried out by the Minister of Internal Affairs, in agreement with the President of Ukraine, and by the senior military educational institutions of the National Guard of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u322	Thank you. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u323	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Mr. Head! Considering that I was approached by many of the deputies who were there. Colleagues who were indeed serving at the National Guard of Ukraine and held a meeting properly literally to sound recorded and correspondingly in the hall specific changes that are proposed to read and protocol in the session hall. Proposals for a draft Ukrainian National Guard Act to improve the legal principles of the Ukrainian National Guard for registration number 3703. First. Paragraph 4 and 5 of paragraph 2 of section 1 and replace the following with paragraphs: "The National Guard of Ukraine is the main subject of the cessation of mass disturbances. The National Guard of Ukraine coordinates the activities of the forces and law enforcement agencies involved in the cessation of the reported illegal acts when measures are being taken to halt the mass disturbances. The organization of the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine from the cessation of mass disturbances and the order of their interaction in the performance of the designated function with the law enforcement authorities, other authorities of the State and local self-government are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." The other one. Sub-paragraph 1 of Section 4 and put it in this section. First. The direct military leadership of the National Guard of Ukraine is carried out by the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, who is at the same time the head of the National Guard of Ukraine. Direct military leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u324	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u325	The direct military leadership of the National Guard of Ukraine is an activity aimed at taking steps towards the development of the National Guard of Ukraine, its technical equipment, preparation and comprehensive security, defining the basis for its application, and managing it in the course of service-fighting tasks. The other one. The commander of the National Guard of Ukraine is appointed President of Ukraine for the submission of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and is dismissed from office as President of Ukraine. Third. Section 4 and complete with a new paragraph 2 of the following table of contents. The second part of the third paragraph should read as follows: "The First Deputy and Deputy Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine shall be appointed to the post of Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine and shall be dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." In this regard, paragraphs 2 and 3 are considered to be paragraphs 3 and 4 respectively. Item 4. Section I, paragraph 8, should be supplemented by a second paragraph. In paragraph 2, the words “in the course of official visits and other measures involving officials of Ukraine and foreign states in respect of which State protection is exercised in Ukraine” are deleted. Fifth. Section 1, paragraph 10, sub-paragraph 2. The other one. In part three, the first paragraph after the words "special means" is replaced by the words "except for personal protection equipment (sholms, armored vests and other special epidermis)". In paragraph 2, the word "necessary" should be replaced by the word "medical." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u326	Thank you. Please sign up, colleagues. Please sign in, please. Two for, two against. Please sign up. Please, Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u327	Dear colleagues, given that we have almost two years without a National Guard commander, we really need to adopt this bill. It's balanced, it's timely, and it's, this bill will ensure that in time of war it is necessary for the Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard to be subordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u328	Thank you. Please, Bondar Mikhailo. Yuri Timoshenko. And then there's Andrew Denisenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u329	Friends, this edition of the People's Front will support unanimously, please vote everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u330	Thank you. Andrew Denisenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u331	Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen! I have to make an extraordinary announcement in this room. A little over an hour ago, in his house in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, Gennady Korban, was the second illegally detained and kidnapped leader of the Ukrainian Patriot Union. Six coaches at the Alfa Special Branch, led by a group of attorney generals, led by a group of investigators, Mackeyev, presented in the Prosecutor's Office of the Zitomir Region. It's very difficult for me to speak without emotion right now because I can't appreciate these actions any differently than the gangs, the naked gang of sadists and degenerates who are still working at the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, and are still engaged in criminal persecution by the leader of the party. Events today developed as follows. At 9 a.m. in the morning, Gennady Corban, the investigator’s decree, arrived at a special day - care institution, a district diagnostic center where he had to carry out a medical examination of his health. During a long period of time, this expertise urges protection to determine the health status of the necessary treatment. His actions today refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u332	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u333	Literally 30 seconds. Dear friends, we see a systemic legal negelism and a prank on the part of law enforcement agencies. I call upon all the Ukrainian national deputies to sign the decree now, to sign for the resignation of Shokin. Dear friends, this man has neither the moral nor the legal nor any other right to lead the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Today, as far as Hennady Corban and our party are concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u334	Thank you, thank you for the performance. Guys, let's move on. Please, literally in a minute, Paul Kishkar. And let's get to the vote. Please take your seats, we will vote on this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u335	Dear colleagues! First. We support this law. The only thing I insist on is that a number of strategic documents in the area of security and defence have not yet been developed and presented. I'm saying I'm going to review my bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Security. Introduce the bill you consider necessary. And again. We support it, but with one small observation. It's written, martial law. We have an ATO now in a special period. Whether our National Guard units will be used or not, it is not clear whether we can use them or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u336	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats, an extremely important law – the National Act, amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act. And we've heard that he's extremely relevant. Please. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats, a signal vote. With all due respect. On the basis and overall, taking into account the proposals made by the committee and the proposals made by Stepan Ivanovich Kube. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to uphold this law. Signal voting on the basis and in general with the proposals of the committee and the sound proposals of Andria Cosemyakin, also Stepan Kubiwa, with technical legal rights. I ask everyone, regardless of factions and groups, to support this, and non-fractional MPs, this law. Vote? Please vote in general. Signal vote. Please support me in accordance with my offer. Vote. Vote. [[23:47:14]] For 214 Colleagues, please take your seats. We are voting in line with my second reading proposal and, in general, a signal vote with the proposals of Stepan Kubiwa, Andria Cosemyakina, technical and legal remedies and with the Committee's proposals. Please vote. Signal vote. Vote. Colleagues, we vote. Please support everyone. Please be supportive. [[11:48:01]] For 232 There are voices. Please vote, colleagues. Now we vote, it's been a signal, we vote. Vote. Oh, not the signal, right? Not a signal? Oh, that wasn't a signal. All of it. The law's been passed. Not a signal. It's okay. The law's been passed. Thank you. Come on. Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, in my decision to adopt the second reading and the whole bill under number 2830 on amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets for the Purpose of Environmental Taxation, I have not heard that the bill is being adopted in the draft proposed by the Committee on Budget Issues, taking into account the proposals made by the head of the Committee on Local Budgets of the Committee on Budget Affairs by Kulichen Ivanović, on the deadline for the entry into force of the law of January 1, 2016, and on the proposal of the first Deputy Minister of Finance of the Hungarian Igor Ivanovic for the inclusion of 20 per cent of the environmental tax to the general fund of the state budget that has been received. We found support in the hall during the discussion of the bill. Please provide technical confirmation of the decision to adopt Bill 2830 on the second reading environmental tax and generally as a bill of the Committee on Budget Affairs, taking into account the deadline for the entry into force of the Act of 1 January 2016 and the inclusion of 20 per cent of the environmental tax in the general budget fund of the State budget, specifying the relevant provisions of the bill. I've read this for the transcript so we can make clear where we've adopted this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u338	Thank you. Colleagues. Really. Attention! 3703, according to the secretariat, we were actually voting in a signal vote of 3703. So please, colleagues, please, 3,703 about Nachwardia. We had 232 votes, on the basis, and in general, with the amendments I've announced, do we vote? Ready? 3703. Please ask all colleagues to uphold this law. We vote on the basis as a whole. We're voting on the amendments and the legal regulations that Andrew Cosemyakin, Stepan Kube, and the Committee's proposals. Vote. We have a vote of 3703. Please be supportive. [[23:50:41]] For 248 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we had Law 2166, which we discussed, but after which we did not make a decision, it was Irina Heraszczenko who informed us about it. Please, Irina Heratschenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u339	Dear colleagues, in our session room during the discussion of this law, promised by the President and presented to the session room with his suggestions and technical rights, there was a full consensus on the need to vote on this law. It refers to the fate of displaced persons who are now officially registered in Ukraine for more than 600,000. And this law helps movers not to get new help; it allows people not to be humiliated again; it excludes elements of corruption. This is a very important law in the context of supporting our pro-Ukrainian citizens who, because of the aggression of the Russian Federation, were forced to leave Crimea or the territory of Donbas and are now living in other regions of Ukraine. Similarly, it is important in the context of our obligations to these people. And for us, it is also important in the context of the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will take place in January and where we will report on the support of displaced persons on various programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u340	Colleagues, please accept 2166 as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, colleagues, this is about displaced persons. Let's support 2166. Ready to vote? This is the support of displaced persons. Don't you have to make a signal vote? Then I'd like to make a proposal from the President. Take your seats. Colleagues, we are voting 2166 with the President's proposals. Please support this with regard to displaced persons. Irina Heratchenko has just informed. To be accepted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. You discussed this law, 2166. We vote in favour of displaced persons. Vote. Please support, this is the support of displaced persons. We vote, colleagues, 2166 accept in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[23:53:34]] For 266 266, law approved. Thank you. Let's move on in the daytime, dear colleagues. 3559: Draft Public Procurement Act. Ivaras Abromavichus. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure for voting it. Is there no objection? We are voting on a reduced procedure. [[23:54:10]] For-162 162 votes, procedural decision taken. Please, Ministry of Economics, who will report? Nephrodites, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u341	Dear colleagues, we present to you the bill 3559, which distributes electronic purchases, our successful pilot project, which has already saved the state 500 million dollars for all purchases in Ukraine. This bill will allow the budget to save up to 4.5 billion in the next year, and in 2017, the first year, when it will work from 1 January to the end of the year, it will save between 35 billion and 40 billion dollars. This bill has already been tested by a ten - month - long pilot who has been involved with 2,000,300 government contractors and has already conducted a tender of 6.5 billion dollars. Our average economy in this pilot is about 12 percent of the projected price. That's 12 percent that you can save and you can spend on social needs, on the need to defend the country, and so on. We very much ask you to support this bill on the basis and in general, we also ask you to take into account Victoria's legislation on the Antimonopoly Committee. Yes, the Committee of the Ministry of Economics has been involved before their development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u342	Thank you. Please, the head of the profile committee, Andrew Ivanchuk. Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u343	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting today, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 3559, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u344	Thank you. Please write two in favour, two in the opposite. People's Deputy Dentist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u345	Please pass on the word to Andrey Zhurziya.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u346	Colleagues, this bill is excessive in terms of transparency in public procurement. I think that each of us, when we meet with the citizens, promised them that when we came to Parliament, we would finally bring about a system of government purchases and stop the theft of tens of billions of dollars a year, and at some estimates and hundreds. Therefore, it is very important to support this bill. It's included in the revenue part of the budget and it affects the adoption of the budget as such. And finally, to break up that series of corruption that is in Ukraine in government purchases. In fact, the project has been operating for about 10 months as a pilot project, there is a significant resource economy. Therefore, the request is to be supported as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u347	Thank you. From the Peter Dust Block of the Aresonks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u348	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u349	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of this bill, and the bill will help us get rid of corruption on electronic purchases. At the same time, the Economic Policy Committee was very quick to consider the bill, so quickly that it failed to take into account the proposals of the Ministry of Economics and the Antimonopoly Committee, which are extremely important. So I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to make three amendments to the transcript that we can vote on as a basis and as a whole. First, Article 18 of Part Ten needs to be amended, except after the words "reviews the complaint" the words "extremely within the circumstances indicated in the complaint." This standard today is contrary to the EU Association and Directive 89-665 and deprives the Anti-Monopoly Committee of the proper response in the matter of the complaint. Secondly, part of the first article 28 should be edited in the section of article 18 of the Act on State Procurement, which would be necessary to take into account the terminology of the new law. And thirdly, part of the first article 28 amends by adding a third paragraph to the following wording: "The criteria for evaluation are in the case of the purchase of goods, jobs and services that are produced, performed or not provided with a separate specification for which there is a permanent market, price. In the case of a complex or specialized purchase, the price, along with other valuation criteria, such as payment conditions, execution periods, warranty services, operating costs, technology transfer and training of management, scientific and manufacturing personnel. These are the amendments with which we can, with which we can vote the bill as a basis and as a whole, and which will help us both to work and to the Antimonopoly Committee effectively, and not to abuse the rights that can be given at the moment with the current edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u350	Thank you. The Radical Party is Oksana Korchinska. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u351	The decision of the Radical Party and the faction is represented by Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u352	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u353	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! The Radical Party faction will support this bill in order to bring tens of billions of dollars of economics into Ukraine's State budget so that you don't tax pensioners in the budget, so that you don't tax working pensioners and people with disabilities, in order to channel these funds to stimulate economic growth, so that we can fill the export agency budget that we create with you to stimulate Ukrainian exports, so that Ukrainian producers, Ukrainian small businesses can go to markets in Asia, Africa, Europe and sell their goods there. Because if there are loans of 2 percent and 40 percent in Ukraine, what kind of European integration can we talk about? So there's a large-scale loan exchange through an export credit agency. The implementation of state-private partnership programmes to involve large-scale investments here in Ukraine to create new jobs in order to build factories in Ukraine, the State has to provide basic infrastructure – points of connection for production, gas, electricity, and roads for those factories that foreign investors have to build in Ukraine. This is the only real way to invest in Ukraine. Therefore, it is not a waste to direct these costs so that we do not look for them in offshore areas, but rather to focus them on economic development, because today, when a wall of accumulation in Ukraine is 12 percent and in Zimbabwe 13 percent, and in China 46 percent, that is where we need to direct these billions, to raise social standards, to increase the purchasing power of citizens and to stimulate economic development, and not to continue that shameful economic policy that the government is still running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u354	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Barwinenko, Rebirth Party. Please. He's handing it over to the Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u355	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the Rebirth Party will support electronic public procurement, it's very important, it will save the state's money. But as always, I am addressing the leaders of the coalition faction. My dears! When will this corrupt ingredient end in Ukraine? You can read the law, which is prescribed again. That it's not the Ministry of Economics that's going to be creating an electronic website for electronic government purchases, and it's going to pass this right on to private structures that it's going to be accredited to, and they're going to be conducting electronic auctions. And the technical parameters for these structures are already prescribed. This is the biggest corruption scheme ever again. Once again, there will be private electronic sites, private structures, instead of the state conducting free electronic public procurement. Another situation. You can read what is proposed by law. That non-state authorities, ministries, businesses themselves will conduct tenders and participate in electronic public procurement, and they have the right to transfer the right to purchase electronics to authorized individuals who may be private enterprises and so on. Well, aren't there so many experts in the electronic tender system able to make money on it again? But how many corrupt schemes can people make, good people? We're in favour of such a bill, but let's clean up again these noodles that are already artificially created, and the technical parameters laid down in the law that firms are essentially going to do that. End these corruption games! We're talking to you, coalitions, government, pervasive factions, end these corrupt schemes, we're asking you, please, stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u356	From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u357	Dear colleagues, our faction has carefully considered this bill on its own expert council. We invited the deputy minister. And I want to tell Mr. Bondar. Mr. Bondar, there are no private companies, there is a very serious transparent system of program owners. It's not just state-owned, it's impossible for anyone to interfere with software. And what I'm saying is that almost, Mr. Ivaras, this is the first legislative victory I've felt today by the Ministry of Economics. I also propose that the "Fatherland" faction vote on this bill as a whole today. I'm very concerned about the antimonopoly committee's rights, because, unfortunately, this is a serious problem today at the end of the bidding process. But by supporting them, we accept the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u358	Thank you, dear fellows. Amendments have been announced by the MP to comment on them and explain them, and I invite the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u359	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I repeat for the chairman. The committee's decision and the agreement of all the factions that we accept in the government's proposed draft legislation in the first reading and in general. All of it. The second decision you make with faction leaders due to the fact that this bill starts working from April 1st to April 1st, we take into account the amendments made by the deputies, the Ministry of Economics, the Antimonopoly Committee. And in order for him to work effectively so that there's no comments that the MPs here have made, there's going to be a bill to make changes, it's going to be a committee that's going to take all of these issues into account. The second question. Why should we accept it now in general? Dear friends, just since January 1st, when this bill is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council and the President, everyone will have the opportunity to prepare and implement this pilot project, which is already in operation, for example, in the Ministry of Defence, in all ministries and central executives and budget managers. And I'm asking everyone to support the government's proposed bill as a whole and give us by April 1st an appropriate law on making changes to take into account all the disagreements, all the amendments we need to make so that we can start this in the drafting process and regulate this bill. Thank you for your attention. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u360	I think it's a very logical proposition, as a law can be applied when it's already, changes when it's already accepted, signed, published. Please, the closing words of Ivaras Abromavichus, Minister of Economics. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u361	Guys, I'm sorry I'm a little late to start the discussion. Thank you very much to all who have spoken is one of the most dynamic and positive reforms in our country. Is this a reform law? Yeah. Is this law anti-corruption? Yeah. And the most beautiful thing is that this whole reform to fight corruption in public procurement requires only two laws. You've already taken one, and here's the last step. Therefore, thank you very much to the individual deputies, especially from Self-Help to George and Victoria Ptashnik, and also to the Committee on Economics, which considered the bill very shortly, put to the vote. Please, Your Honor, put to the vote, taking into account the amendments made by the Antimonopoly Committee. And all the other amendments will be finalized by the month's equinox, and let the law work. And on such a beautiful holiday, the whole world starts a holiday, the whole world starts celebrating Christmas, I think we'll also show a beautiful way of fighting corruption and moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u362	Dear colleagues, let's not break the law right now. There's the committee head, there's the committee's decision. Next, the committee prepares for the graduation. If that's a violation, then we'll have a public question. signing and publishing. Logic is by April 1st, probably more intelligent in this matter. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. Okay. Okay. One minute. We're getting ready. Look, you're going to vote for yourself right now. I'm just going to, I'm going to put two options. Mikhail Golovko, one minute. Please take your seats. One minute, Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u363	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear MPs, colleagues! I want to tell you a few words that really, the problem with solicitation in Ukraine is pretty big. Over three hundred billion of us spend every year on tender purchases in Ukraine. The number of deductions is estimated to be 20-30 percent, more than 50 billion dollars a year, and we're getting losses on opaque tender purchases. This bill, which improves significantly for this legislative base, will allow the country to save more than fifty billion dollars. These costs can be used to repair roads, raise wages, raise pensions, social benefits, medicine, culture, education that is needed in the country. It's not one bill we've adopted in this direction. So I still urge you to support this bill. Because the Ministry of Economics, by the way, although you know, didn't make very often positive decisions, but this bill, it's worth considering. So I call for support, and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u364	Thank you, Your Honor. So we have two suggestions. Offer one. It is to accept it as a basis and as a whole with the correction of Victoria the Bird. And this is going to be a signal vote. You make up your mind, fellows. And this is going to be a signal vote. If this doesn't happen, I'll put it on the committee. Please, are you ready? Take your seats. Why don't you call it a fix? Scream. Correction. Ready? Ready, everybody? Please, on the basis and in general, as corrected. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the correction of Victoria the Bird. On the basis and in general, a signal vote. Please vote. Vote. [[00:13:11]] For 201 Show me through the factions. Got it. On the basis and in general in the Committee's version. [[B in m in s a l in]] Signal, signal. In the government's opinion, in the government's opinion, according to the conclusion of the Committee on Technical Legal Rights. Please read second. From the second reading and in general in the version of the government with technical legal regulations, the rating vote is a signal. Please. Repeat. Attention! On the basis and as a whole, the government with the technical legal rights of the committee. Vote. Signal vote. Please. No, it's not. [[00:14:12]] For 148 Yes. Based on the base. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. There's another suggestion: based on the base. Based on the base. Let's try it as a base. Colleagues. My colleagues, look, I can put once again on the vote as a basis and as a whole with Victoria the Bird. Why don't we call it a night? Let's try it. Signal one more time. Yeah, yeah, come back, come back. Come back, please. We're taking our positions. Now I'm going to lay the groundwork again and in general with the correction of Victoria the Bird. Let's hear it. Louder. I see about 226 on the applause. Colleagues, let's re-vote as a basis and as a whole with the rights of the Ptachnik Victoria. Ready? It's an emergency. Ready? Ready. Well, we vote. Please support this proposal. Signal. [[00:15:57]] For 231 Based on the base. It was a signal. Stop! Stop! Stop! On the basis and in general with Victoria’s edits. Vote. Vote! No one leaves theirs. On the basis and in general. Vote? Vote. We're backing it up. Constitutional majority. [[00:16:21]] For 244 The law's been passed. Thank you. Let's move on. Thank God it's okay, it's a good anti-corruption law, it's very good. Next, colleagues, 3351. Colleagues, I have just been approached by our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine Mustafa Najam, I think you all know him. It is signed by the factions of the "Block of Petra Prashenko", the "National Front", the "will of the people", the faction of the Rebirth Party, Oleg Ljashko, Jegor Sobolev and Andri Kozemjakin to include the draft Law 3461 in the agenda of the day. Listen carefully. This is a draft of the Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement (on State Procurement by the Ukrainian National Police). And if you don't mind, I'm going to put it in the agenda to make a decision. And then Mustafa Najem will say the word. Do you mind? Let's vote and support Nachwardia. We vote in the agenda to make a decision, yes. This is Mustafa Nyem's offer. Vote. Please support the inclusion. [[00:18:17]] For 236 The decision has been made. 236 taken to make a decision. In summary, please consider it. Mustafa Najem. Shorter, shorter procedure, we vote. Please be supportive. [[00:18:38]] For-182 Thank you, 182. The decision has been made. Mustafa Najem, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u365	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting the bill. The bill deals with amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which is 39 articles. After the entry into force of the National Police Act, we didn't say that the National Police could purchase by negotiation procedure. The thing is, right now we have a lot of guys standing on the front, they have no form, we can't buy it, winter form. If we leave the general procedure now, we only get the form in July. I very much ask you to support this bill, it passed all the committees, including thanks to the Anti-Corruption Committee that supported it. Put it to the vote, please support, because the guys are really freezing out of shape, really, it's physical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u366	Dear colleagues, why don't we take it without discussion? We'll support the National Police. Is there political will? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. It's a short, simple bill, but it's extremely important to us. Yes, as the deputies gather, we will give the floor to the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to testify to his decisive uncompromising position. Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u367	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, the committee has decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u368	Thank you. Dear colleagues have prepared to take up their seats. And even without a signal, I immediately put the vote on the ground and, in general, Bill 3461. Please vote, please support. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u369	Let's vote, colleagues. [[00:20:42]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u370	245 - decision taken. Mustafa asked us to break the rules, and we broke the rules for the police. They didn't break the Rules, they did everything by law. Thank the authors, thank you to the committee for supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u371	Thank you, colleagues. 3351: Draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 33, of the Budget Code of Ukraine. Please report to Maxim Burbak. 3351, there is a proposal to consider a reduced procedure, please vote. [[00:21:25]] For-152. Thank you, the decision has been made. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u372	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending section VI, paragraph 33, of the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance of road roads for general use and construction of crossing points across the State border for road transport). The substance of the problem proposed for the resolution of this bill is the following: The Ukraine Act amending Chapter VI "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on the experiment in Odessa, Volinska, Lviv and Chernivsky areas on the financial security of reconstructions, the current repair of the roadways of general use of public importance, provides for 50 per cent of the amount of overrun of the total monthly indicative rates of customs payments made during the customs treatment of goods in the territory of Chernivsky region, solely for the implementation of the current repair of the road by road of the general use of the state value of Stries-Ivano-Franks-Cherniviz-Mamaliga (in Chisinov). However, according to information from the Chernobyl Road Service, the entire length of the N-10 Stry-Yvano-Frankivsky-Chernivci-Mamaliga (Kishin) road has been eliminated and satisfactory travel conditions are ensured. In addition, as part of the budget programme for the development of the Ukrainian part of the Carpathian region, work has been done from the current medium-sized repairs – road coverage. Under the very limited financing of the road sector, the lack of construction costs, capital repairs, road reconstruction, and the lack of compliance with interregulatory deadlines, it can be noted that the vast majority of roads in the area are in an inadequate state and require immediate improvement. I could say that in four months of this experiment, more than 120 million dollars were counted in the budget of the Chernobyl region. All of them are on a road that has already been repaired. This experiment will continue until January 1, 2017. So we're going to have super-planned arrivals, and this bill is going to provide repairs to all of the roads in the Chernobyl area.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u373	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u374	And secondly, send the money to the building sites. And within the framework of cross-border cooperation, we are now putting into operation two points of the "Dekavets" and "Krasnoyls", from which the road already exists on the Romanian side, on the Ukrainian side, is only a thorough road. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u375	Thank you. Please, budget committee, who's speaking from the budget? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Okay! Two for, two against, colleagues. National MP Martinjak, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u376	Please. Dear Head, please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u377	Dear Head, honourable reporter, distinguished colleagues! It's a good idea. It's got to be supported. But the proposition is, let's expand this experiment, because there are problems in every area. And I think there's no roads in the Zitomir region, there's no roads in many cases, there's directions. Let's write in this law that 50 percent of the change in plan each area gives customs, they have the right to use cars. And it's going to be a fair approach, otherwise, I think there's going to be selectivity here, and the MPs who represent other areas will find it hard to support this really fair initiative. I would ask you to accept this amendment and vote for it as a whole. Once again, I reiterate that each area has the right to spend 50 percent of its spending on construction work, on roads, on reforming the congregation’s plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u378	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u379	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Maxime, I very much ask you to explain to me, you're talking about the Carpathian Euro Region. Where does the Carpenter relate in this way? Four borders, the Zacarpathian region is bordering with four countries, and so is the Carpathian region. I'm asking you to do the same with the vote and include the Zakarpatsky area. Because it would be unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u380	Look, guys, I have an offer. Listen. We, I think we've gone a little bit. We went the wrong way, we went the wrong way. Let's have these transit areas, yes, transitors. Let's make a systemic decision that applies to everyone. And so I'm going to propose next, or we're going to adopt this law now on the basis of a group, we're going to set up a group, we're going to set up the right system changes so that each area has the mechanisms for creating a normal infrastructure of roads, we're going to reconcile it with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ministry of Finance, and we're going to create a normal system of incentives. And it goes like this, one area, another area, someone's going to say, and give me mine, the other one, and it's going to be completely wrong. Still, I support the next position. We can combine two factors: both this factor, and today we have spoken with Anatoly Matviennek, what Anatoly Matvienko said. We have excise, we can also combine it into one formula -- and so we'll have a proper road. So I'd like to think about that right now. So, colleagues, now who didn't participate in the discussion, per minute. Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u381	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, you are absolutely right in your proposal for a comprehensive project. And that's the right thing to do. But it's absolutely impossible to do this on the basis of the project that we're currently discussing. Because this project amends the existing law, which deals with the road from Ivano-Frankivsk to the Chernivs, which is still still unrepaired, because a piece of Frankivsk in the Frankivsk region is not yet done. So I'm very much asking this bill to be rejected, and I'm asking you to support the one that's going to be introduced, complex, developed by different deputies from different factions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u382	I think it's also a positive position. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u383	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, it said here that we have separate areas that are transitable. So what I'm saying is that we have the whole country in transit. Do we have a truck coming in from one border, driving through transit, but this is the only area that's borderline? No, she's going further along the country, and the load goes on all roads, not just on the roads of the border area. Are we going to have roads only in the border areas, and in the rest of the areas we don't have roads? Let's stop this feudalism, and let's stop this land from being cultivated! We have the Ukrainian Parliament! And we have a Ukrainian customs office, not a separate area. So let's do it proportionally and normally so that there's no selectiveity and no attempt to make a pierre or a feudal hole of some kind. Let's do it in proportion, okay. And then so that no one may be despised, but that this may be for all the nations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u384	Thank you, Andrew, for actually supporting what I said. What's the point? Those areas that have borders, they have more comings, I mean that. And then the other areas are going to be a little bit off the level. Please, Oleg Lazko. Then Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u385	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My native Chernigovishte is also bordering Russia, a border area, is a customs office. The roads in Montenegro are not the same as in Lviv. The same applies to equality. There's a customs office, there's no roads. There are problems in areas where there are no customs or roads. Or Sumska, for example, is the area. It's also borderline. There is also a customs office, but there are no roads, and there is no cost of repairing these roads. So I'm proposing the same approach for all areas of Ukraine, because the federalization just starts with what they gave to each other, it doesn't give to others. There has to be the same approach, we're the only country. Customs fills the budget, and revenue from income to budget has to go to repair roads all over our home country's big, beautiful, and only country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u386	Colleagues, look. Victor Bondar. You can do that. We've already spoken, we won't go further into this position. I'm actually going to suggest that he remove this law now, not even consider it. And make one comprehensive basic, systemic law and everything will be perfectly normal in all of Ukraine. Please, Victor Bondar. Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u387	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. You're absolutely right. You know, when there's a term that this road, which has already been planned for, is now in perfect condition, so let's redistribute it to other roads, so that's not the way it is, I don't know where the roads are in perfect condition in Ukraine. So I support your proposal, and our faction supports, let's give a complex document to make it really the same for each area, whether it's borderline or internal, inside the country, to make real funding for roads, road agriculture. It's either customs, or above-planned customs revenue, but it's supposed to be the same approach. It's not that in two areas we do experiments and then in the entire Parliament we redistribute these small funds. Thank you for your position. I think that's the right position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u388	Thank you. Then, with your permission, if you don't mind. We might even fail it now. Oh, no, we're taking it off the table. Let's take it. We're taking it off the author's offer now. And there's the next proposal. We will be determined by Parliament. The base committee, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Finance plus MPs, and the following is the task: to propose to the working group, to propose a systemic solution to this issue -- to stimulate and support the reconstruction of roads, including using the excise assembly mechanism that we have. Here's a formal approach: the excise assembly, the remodeling of customs -- that might be a good result. So I'm going to make this protocol assignment today, okay? That's it, thank you. Then, at the suggestion of Maxim Burbak, we take it off the table. Thank you. Moving on, 3465. Dear colleagues, to make a decision on the issues under discussion. This is a question of the irreparability of punishment. There is also a very important question. There's an offer. He's been discussed, but I'll give him a chance. Three minutes, Victoria Sumar. And then Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u389	Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u390	Dear colleagues, there is a very good offer. Dear colleagues! There's an offer. Let us all now take the lead in welcoming all those who observe Christ’s Christmas today. With Christmas Christ! We wish for good, health. Let's go up and welcome everyone. All who celebrate today are good, health, success, the best. Welcome, everyone! Peace, good, health, success. Best of luck! It's an extremely bright holiday. Thank you. We're working on it, dear fellows. Victoria Sumar, please. Attention! Listen! A very important law, we must now adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u391	Of course it's the will of the hall. Colleagues! I'm just going to talk very briefly about the history of this law. We have very soon with you, in two months literally, we won't be working with you next month, and in February society will ask us, where are things for Maidan? Where are the punishments for the Maydan case? And when, in fact, we started talking and asking everyone in the Attorney General's Office, in the investigators who were running these cases, already when Midan's anniversary was in November, they said that there were so many Interpol cases being filed today, but Interpol was not announcing former President Yanukovich and his family's family's search, and that this was halting the initiation of a procedure, in fact, a pretrial investigation into the possibility of conducting an ominous justice procedure. And actually, that's when the people who were on Maidan agreed to sign the bill. Thank you very much, committee. Mr. Andrey! Mr. Andrey! Mr. Andrey! I thank you very much for the work that was done to you, because it was extremely important to us. You've examined and worked perfectly on this bill, and you've seen that there were certain nuances that could have led to human rights violations. In order to limit the bill's operation, we suggest that we approve it with an agreed amendment, especially with the investigator, with the authors, and with the other lawyers in the first reading room. Complementing the possibility of a special pretrial investigation with a mandatory point that information on the request of an authorized central authority of Ukraine to a foreign State regarding the extradition of an extradition person and the refusal of a competent authority of a foreign State in such extradition as is confirmed by the photocopies of such documents or the failure to respond to such a request by the competent authority of a foreign State to a reasonable period of time. In fact, it will be said that this law will only apply to those people who have broken the case if they are not advertised by Interpol in an international search, and the foreign state refuses extradition. Only in such an editorial to limit, in fact, the circle and to make it impossible to apply at any request, we suggest that it be approved in the first reading and, of course, that we seriously elaborate on the second reading. With the result that we will be in society in February. Because the request for punishment of a former authority is extremely important. And it is also our responsibility to help the investigating authorities deal with this. Because this is an exclusive situation. Ukraine evidently did not have a system of rights that would have been adapted to such a situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u392	Finish up. Everything? Thank you. Andrew Anatoliyovich, Andrew Kožemiakin
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u393	Dear colleagues! Well, I understand you can break the rules, you can break the procedure, you can do anything in this room. And on the night, as the criminal authorities of the Party of Regions did in their time. I'm a witness, I've seen a lot of things in this room in 10 years. But, colleagues, let's still have a little respect for ourselves. I respect myself. So out of words like that, Mrs. Victoria, with all due respect to you, the person who really cares about the People's Front faction, but you have nothing to do with this procedure, this process that is being proposed today, and where the authors are. Where are the authors? They hid for you, for a woman. So once again, I understand that you are also the author, but a very complicated law, and there are no votes in this room for this law. There was no committee. I'm telling you again, as chairman of the committee, it's impossible to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u394	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look. I have a committee in my hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn off the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anton, one minute. Colleagues, there's a committee, and it's been in my hands since 24.12.15, where it's been decided that this was the subject on the committee. I have a signed application, which is what it's all about. And the committee's proposal was to bring him back for work. Right, well, that's up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the committee. Please. There was a report. Two for, two against. Please sign up. Two for, two against, please. Sergei Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u395	Dear MPs, what has happened is true. We have a situation where the Janukovich environment is not announced on the Interpol line. And that prevents us from going into oblivion. For example, the same Pshonka is Interpol's refusal to announce an international search. The gardener, the manager, the sniper commander in Maidan, is unannounced on Interpol. Janukovic, search suspended. All of these events have extremely serious consequences. If Janukovic, Pschenka, Gardener are not announced on the Interpol line, it means that our KPC can't start a trial trial, sorry, inadvertently condemning these people. I mean, it's impossible to have a court-martial. Under these conditions, an amendment should be adopted that allows for the initiation of an inadvertent sentence following a request for extradition of these figures. If the party where Janukovic is hiding, Pshonka, others, the nearest surroundings of Yanukovitch or the people who took part in the shootings in Maidan, if these people are in the countries and we know they're there, we're asking for extradition, or we're being denied extradition, or if we're not getting any answers at all, then we can start the procedure for an acquittal. This is what the Office of Special Investigations of the Attorney-General, which conducts both the sanctions list and the crimes associated with the shootings in Midan, because all the figures have escaped, we hear that there are no punishments, but that they must be punished by a court of absentee justice and that the trial is possible for KPC only after an international search. If the international search is blocked at Interpol's closest environment to Yanukovich, who applied for sanctions there, then we can't start a court-martial.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u396	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u397	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished citizens! Interpol's guilty is that Yanukovic isn't a wanted man? I don't think so. Why didn't Yanukovich get a search warrant? Why were patriots advertised in two days in international search when Janukovich was a gang? Because Interpol has issued such documents specifically so that neither Yanukovich nor his gang can be advertised. I'm asking why those sitting in the hall today are hiding behind MP's mandates instead of responding. You're asking, where are the cases of those who shot Majdan? I'll tell you where things are, either sold or made a deal with the authorities. And those who are involved in the shootings of Maidan today are hiding in this Parliament under parliamentary inviolability. So, gentlemen, don't give up on Interpol when you're selling your own cases and betraying the cause of the revolution, and you're betraying the memory of those people and the work of those people who were standing on the ground. You're going to tell me how to solve this? You don't know how, I'll tell you: let's start with ourselves. The first is the resignation of the Attorney General. It is sabotaged by an investigation that does not carry out the necessary actions. Two years after Maidan, they cannot be held accountable. I'm asking, why do we need this prosecutor's office, why do we need these law enforcement agencies? That is why I again appeal to the National Deputies. They've already collected 100 signatures for the resignation of Attorney General Shokin. Not enough 50 signatures to bring this issue to Parliament Hall. Today’s chasm with Korban in Dnipropetrovsk shows again whose political orders are being ordered by today’s Marzamatic Attorney General Shockin. That's why I'm addressing the National Deputies, taking on political responsibility, signing, not cracking down on corruption in the Attorney General's Office and corruption in power. Don't be afraid, sign.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u398	Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u399	Sergey Melniczuk. I personally faced the law enforcement system, and I know what pressure is, the pressure of law enforcement. And don't God forbid I'd be the way they thought I would be, I'd be abroad, I'd just fall under their sanctions under this law. So I'm personally opposed to this, it's actually the same as we said before, the laws of January 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u400	Thank you. Colleagues, there is a proposal to consider it on the basis of this bill. Signal vote. Victoria Sumar's offer. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u401	The honourable colleague who had just spoken about extradition was not there, so it was not right to compare it with the January 16 laws. In this case, the proposal to vote solely on what was read on extradition with this right in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u402	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the signal vote is based on the draft Law 3465. Identify yourself as a base. Please identify yourself as a base. [[00:48:06]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, second reading. Draft Law 2090a. 2090a: Draft Law on State Defence Order (second reading). Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parbius. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u403	Dear colleagues, we'll move on to the budget as soon as the budget committee is ready. Dear colleagues, we are now moving in our agenda to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders on the formation and execution of state defence orders. It's the second reading, the right hand is not much, so I'm asking all the national MPs to be in position. And I would like to write to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u404	Good night, dear fellows! Our committee for six months, along with the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense, worked closely with Ucroborprom on the State Defense Order Act (registration number 2090). You have given out tables we've already looked at, counted the maximum line. I want to stop at some points that define this law. The point is that we basically had all the defense legislation is morally outdated and given the conflict we're in, we were forced to modernize the entire legislative array with you. This is also true of the defense order. The thing is, we've had a completely illogical old form, the state defense order was planned for a year, we've had a colossal pile of abuse over the last 10 years. When the program began to be funded the following year, it was closed, and the money, if you'll excuse me, is still wanted by the military prosecutor's office. There are many things that are predicted, such as planning for three years, for five. Because the development of new weapons or new types of weapons takes a very long time, and it is impossible for one year to do so. Other amendments were also implemented, including those laws that you and I have already passed laws on the Ministry of Defence, and we've changed legislation on Nachwardia and all that. If it's not necessary, most of the rights have been taken into account, and those amendments I would ask the Hall to support this law. This will give us an opportunity. The following year, the next defense order, to form according to the new law, according to our forward-looking plans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u405	Thank you, dear fellows, of the amendments that have been made, almost all have been taken into account or taken into account in part. Only 7 amendments were rejected or insisted on the seventh amendment. No, it's not. So, your honorary colleagues, all the other amendments are taken into account and we can go to the vote. I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall and take their seats, prepare for the vote. I'm going to set up an alert first, of course, but I'm going to ask my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defense Order (for the formation and execution of state defence orders) (2090a) on second reading and in general. Signal vote, colleagues, please. [[00:52:38]] For-149 Again, colleagues! Is there no political will or no discipline? Please turn on the factions. The factions. My colleagues, I'm going to put you to the vote again. If there's no vote, we'll postpone it, this bill. Once again, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Orders (2090a). This is a vote, please. [[00:53:35]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The head of the committee, Sergey Pashinsky, we're postponing the bill. Is that what we're doing? We're putting down the bill. After the signal vote, we saw that there were no votes under it. In the second reading of Bill 3106, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government bodies as legal persons is also followed by the following day. And the report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. It's a short law, not a lot of law. Everyone, please remain seated. Please, Victor Valeriyovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u406	Thank you. Your Honor, the presiding officer, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I propose a bill on amending some of Ukraine's laws on the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government bodies as legal persons. The purpose of this bill is to settle relations that arise from the state registration of a newly created and created merger, association, division, or transformation of a local self - government body as a legal person. In order to remedy the shortcomings of the legal regime governing the succession of united territorial communities, their rural, rural, city councils and executive committees, to harmonize with the legislative procedure for the reorganization of local self - government bodies in the process of voluntary unification of territorial communities. Dear colleagues, 54 amendments were made in preparation for the second reading, of which 40 were partially, wholly, or editorially, 14 were rejected. Dear colleagues, this bill is necessary for new united territorial communities to be able to have a normal functioning regime, to manage their property, to be the legal successor of the old corresponding structures, and to understand that decentralization is actually happening, and that what they believe in it allows them to work properly. So, your honors, I ask you to support this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the necessary technical legal rights. I would also like to highlight just a few of the amendments that were discussed further after the committee, also with Mr. Vlasenko’s professional committee, with Mr. Derevyanka. And I propose that, in addition to the decision taken by the Committee, amendment 8, the People’s Chamber of Derevyanka and Fedoruk, put it on the stand and do not support it, in order to avoid a conflict with a potential violation of the Constitution, because I believe that we cannot put such an important bill at risk if colleagues have such warnings. In addition, I would like to agree with the amendment initiator: 15th, 17th, 52nd and 53rd, to propose a confirmation and support. Dear colleagues, I propose in such an editorial manner to support the bill for second reading for adoption as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u407	Dear colleagues! Let's go through those amendments, every time, and already in the process of considering the amendments, Mr. Victor, you'll call those you think you need to vote. I'm only going to call those corrections that are rejected. 5th, Drevijanka, overruled. Don't insist. 6th, Drevijanka, overruled. Don't insist. 7th, Galasjuk. Don't insist. 8th Amendment, Fedoruk. It's counted. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u408	Dear colleagues! Since, as I say, after the meeting of our committee, we had additional consultations with Mr. Vlasenko and with experts, because there are certain risks to the conformity of the Constitution, I don't think we should be exposed to them. Without this amendment, the law will work, so I suggest we put it on the stand. Don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u409	You heard the head of the committee. And at his suggestion, I'm asking for confirmation of the 8th amendment of the Fedoruk People's Deputies, and whoever supports this amendment, it's confirmation that who supports it, please vote. Please, the 8th Fedoruk Amendment is being voted on. [[00:59:09]] For-89 The amendment is not confirmed. The decision did not get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 12th, Drevyanka. Please turn on the microphone, Derivyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u410	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Honorable Chairman and Honourable People’s Deputies! My amendment envisions the transfer of land outside the population to the communal property of the united territorial communities within these communities, except for the lands of defence, lands where the property of state property is still, facilities that are constantly used by public authorities, public enterprises, institutions, the National Academy of Sciences, and the State Industrial Academy of Sciences. The transfer of land outside the settlements to united territorial communities was one of the government’s obligations and in line with the government’s concept of decentralization, as well as one of the greatest incentives for communities to unite, as the land is budgeting for united territorial communities, since it is the unified territorial communities within the territories in which these lands are now located that can and should be managed according to the territorial plan rather than simply by officials from Derbykomze, as is the case today. I ask you very much to support this amendment because it is really important today for every united territorial community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u411	Mr. Victor, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u412	Thank you. Dear colleague Derivyanko, I would like to point out that this was discussed on the committee. The committee essentially supports its orientation and ideology. But at the same time, experts believe that if this amendment is supported by the 12th and the 54th amendments, it will not really ensure the full implementation of the idea put into effect. So in order to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, there are now two bills, 3510 and 3510-1, which aim at a comprehensive settlement of the issue that you have raised. The committee therefore decided not to support the amendment. But I think that if the room supports this amendment, there will be no harm, just essentially it will be of a declarative nature. In order for it to work, it is necessary to accept 3510 or 3510-1, which we will also ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to speed up the consideration of these amendments as quickly as possible. That's why I'm asking you to identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u413	Thank you. You've heard the opinion of the committee's head. And I put to the vote the amendment of the 12 People’s Deputies of the Tree. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. We vote who supports it. [[01:02:08]] For-146 The decision is not made. We're moving on. 13th, Sold. Declined. Don't insist. 21st, Semenha. Declined. Don't insist. 15 Amendments, Dreviánko Please, Mr. Victor, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u414	Dear Lord Chairman! As I have said before, after further consultations with the committee headed by Mr. Vlasenko, there is an amendment proposal for 15th, 17th, 52nd and 53rd to be put on confirmation and supported in order for them to enter into the adoption of the bill as a whole. So I suggest that they vote in a comprehensive manner and speed up the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u415	Dear author! The Honourable Head of the Committee! Let's go through all the amendments, and then we'll vote on those consolidated amendments before the vote when everyone's in the room. Is that okay with you? These, yes. Before the vote, when the MPs come together. And we need to work harder on the committee so that we don't run across the hall. So I'm going to go right to the end, and then we're going to put them in. I've also noticed that there are some of the rejects. Counted. Counted. Declined 50th, Drevijanka, she'll be in that list. 54th, rejected. Don't insist. So we've been through all the adjustments. And I ask the honourable deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall from the towers and prepare for the vote. And I would like to stress to you once again, the committee head is going to sound four amendments that are unifying. The committee supported them, but since the committee met. The committee recommends that these amendments be voted on, and the only question is that we have enough votes to vote on. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Don't go out there, just go in the hall. Now for one minute, Victor Halasyuk. Please state clearly what amendments we can make so that we can vote on them in a package. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u416	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. An extremely important bill for local self - rule. Please support it in the second reading and in general, taking into account the following changes compared with the Committee’s revision. With the 8th and the 15th, 17th, 52nd and 53rd revisions. To support this bill as a whole with technical legal remedies if necessary. Dear colleagues, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u417	Dear colleagues, I'll make the amendments separately and then the bill itself separately. That's the right thing to do. But I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. First, I'm going to put up a vote. So I'm getting a signal vote on support for the amendments that the chairman of the committee from the rostrum, taking them into account and putting them into the body of the bill. And I ask by signal vote to support the committee head's proposal. Please vote, colleagues. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u418	Dear colleagues, "yes." [[01:06:17]] For 199 I can see that this unites the hall because there are not enough deputies in the hall. Some people don't, but I'm asking you again, colleagues who are in the towers, please come into the hall. Mr. Victor, turn the siren on for your faction. Please, colleagues, let's go into the voting room. There's going to be another very important bill. We're going to vote fast, company. The discussion will be minimal. So go into the hall, take your seats, and prepare for the vote. Not from the hall, but from the hall, colleagues. So I'm going to put it back on the vote. I'm asking for your support. This friendly band in the corner is calling for the bill to be supported. Thus, a signal vote was prepared. Four amendments include a bill that has just been issued by the committee’s head from the platform under the stenogram. Please be supportive. Please vote. Signal vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[01:07:55]] For 216 The committee head did not vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to call the deputies. Head of the committee, you can sit down and vote. It will be right, it will be wise. As the Eurooptimists approached, it gave us the optimism that we had been raised for years, that we were not going to a session during our working hours. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Lechchenka, Lechchenka approached, a Eurooptimist. I'd like to see Zadszczek and Mustafa. Sergei Leschenko, call Mustafa. Say: Mustafa, in the hall. We'll scan the hall: Mustafa in the hall, in the hall! Dear colleagues, I'm re-voting. Please prepare yourself, concentrate, exert yourself, and support the four amendments that the head of the committee has made to the transcript. Signal vote. Please vote. Wooden, vote, please. Vote. Mustafa's on the run! [[01:09:19]] For 239. This broke our vote. Let's focus, colleagues. We are now voting, the first vote of the 4 amendments is no longer a signal, which was spoken by the committee head, and then by the law as a whole. So first. Confirmation and support of the four amendments that the head of the committee, Victor Halasyuk, has provided for the transcript. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Voting and supporting. [[01:09:57]] For 242 Decision taken. Corrections are supported. Now I'm putting no warning, I'm asking you to stay in your seats and focus, on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government as legal persons (number 3106) in the second reading and in general on technical law. I'm asking you to support me. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote! Please. [[01:10:47]] For 247 Decision taken. It's a victory. I welcome both the chairman of the committee, the authors of the amendments, and the authors of the bill. And now, honourable colleagues, a very short, simple but important bill is next in order of the day. Stay put, society, it's a matter of national security. Next draft of the Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2016 for participation in multinational education (3720). My colleagues, we'll talk about it quickly, we'll support our boys quickly so that they can go through support and training. There is a general position to vote and support. So, we're ready, I'm going to put up a signal vote first. It's a very important bill. We're voting, aren't we? Okay. We're getting ready. I am voting on the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2016 for participation in multinational education (number 3720) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[01:12:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Hello. An important piece of legislation that allows our boys to learn the best techniques to defeat the invaders of the road. And that decision will really help us win, give us the basis. Dear colleagues, we now have a bill of great importance, which Leonid Yemen reminded us all day long of its importance, this is the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Protection of the Right to a Fair Court (as regards the enforcement of the rights of judges who hold positions in courts that have ceased to work in connection with the natural disaster, military activities carried out by the ATO). Number 1419, 3328. And I invite you to the report. Now, please concentrate, be in your seats. The first decision is to include in the agenda of the day session and the decision-making process. And I'm asking you to focus and support inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please, Leonid Jemetz, vote on your bill. Please vote. Please vote. [[01:14:43]] For-140. Insufficient number of votes to be included in the agenda, Mr. Leonid. Perhaps some have misunderstood the substance of the bill. Let Leonid Jemetz report and tell us the bottom line of the bill. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u419	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm going to remind you what language is for? The law on fair trial stated that those judges who had left the territory occupied by Russian terrorists in Lugansk and Donetsk had been attached to Ukrainian courts and were paid a salary there. There was a term of six months, these six months ended in September, and then these people -- that's 72 people left in a situation where they don't get paid and they don't have, because they have the status of judges to get any other income. So today they have one choice either to be a criminal and get illegal income or to be beggars. And the responsibility lies with the Ukrainian Parliament. So it's very simple to erase this six-month term, to give them the opportunity to be attached to the Ukrainian courts, and to do this technical, in fact, error that was foreseen in the Fair Court Act. Dear colleagues! It's actually about the patriots that we have to provide for the possibility of being. I'm asking you so much, I understand, everybody's tired, let's concentrate, it's two seconds, let's vote on this law and do the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u420	I will once again put Mr. Leonid to a vote, a signal vote that supports the inclusion of this issue in the agenda for decision-making. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote on who supports the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. Please vote on who supports it. [[01:17:21]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Excuse me, Mr. Leonid, and don't blame the chairman anymore. Work with the factions. So, honourable colleagues, this next request from all factions, the support of the blind, this is a very important bill, and I would ask you all to concentrate. So the next, 2368th draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to increase the access of blind people with impaired vision and dyslexia to outstanding works in a special format. And there is a request, Mr. Yuri Suhevich will report, and there is a request to support the review of the reduced procedure. Please cancel the procedure, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[1:18:37]] For-188. Decision taken. And I would like to invite you to the report of Mr. Yuri Suhevich. Please turn on Yuri Suhevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u421	Dear Mr. Chairman! Deputies! The point is that Braille is very hard to print, and it takes a lot of paper, and it's expensive, it's special devices that allow blind people to access textbooks, it's convenient for them to look, find a corresponding paragraph, page, etc., and so on, and it allows them to really learn. Sadly, our society is following the disabled. It's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step forward, it's a step that gives these people the opportunity to learn and learn, and it's to expand their perspective at all. I ask that this bill be supported, especially since it does not require any financial costs. All that's said is that they give people with disabilities access to textbooks, and they don't pay for copyright. There is a special law that makes use of textbooks for such people, and copyright is not paid. So I'm asking this bill to support, and you're going to do a really big job for people with limited capabilities. Mrs. Lilia Greenevich's technical remedies will be served there, and I'm asking you to accept them as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u422	The committee's proposal as a basis or as a whole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u423	Our committee of people with disabilities also supports this bill as well as the education committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u424	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's no need. Please take up jobs, please prepare yourself, concentrate, and I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to extend access to the blind. So I just asked: Is there a need to discuss? You said you didn't have to. Please turn on Trelyakow's microphone, Trelyakow. Third-party microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u425	Please record for the transcript: with the technical papers Greenevich will submit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u426	Thank you. Thus, I am voting on the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to extend access to blind, visually impaired and dyslexic persons to published works in a special format, as amended by the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailuna, on the basis and in general (number 2368a). Please vote, we vote, we vote 2368a as a basis and we vote in general. [[01:22:28]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's be clear that we're just going after that daily bill and the agenda that stood. And now we have a very important bill 2487, this is a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges on improving the mechanism for determining the level of burden on judges of the relevant court. Is Janicko Vasil Petrovich ready to report? The Prince will report, right? Dear colleagues, there is a request for this bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, remind me of the moment you passed that bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u427	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I remind you. The point is that we have considered this issue in detail under a reduced procedure and, accordingly, everyone, without exception, has expressed their support for this bill, which contains a purely technical function, which is provided for by this law. Literally speaking, the congregations of judges of each court themselves determine the amount of workload for the head of the court. And considering how they would consider such an amount appropriate to offer, let the head work not only as an executive in court but as a judge. Because if we set up the amount that currently exists, we have the vast majority of the heads of the courts who have to work seriously in the courts, and you know that in most courts we have a critical situation: the judges are missing, and they are unable to exercise their powers as the heads of the courts. So it would be very important now to support this bill and allow the congregations of judges, the communities of judges, each individual judge to decide for himself the kind of pressure that they consider necessary to give his head. Thank you. Please support, there's nothing extraordinary here, everything's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u428	Dear colleagues, please come in and take your seats, please. So, dear colleagues, we've already talked about this bill. Now it's just about voting. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges to improve the mechanism for determining the level of burden on judges of the relevant court (number 2487) as a basis and as a whole. Signal vote. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. 2487. [[01:26:17]] For 169 The decision is not made. Signal. It was just a signal vote. That's not enough, and that's why we're postponing the bill. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Look, we have a whole series of outstanding debts. And I'm being approached by factions' heads and they're asking me to solve these questions. Among them are the human resources issues that concern, in fact, the transitions to committees. I'm being asked by the BP faction to put them to the vote right now. Is there a common understanding? Is there general support? Yes. Then let's do it. Human resources don't need to be included in the agenda, we can put them in at any time. So I'm going to put it to the vote. And I'm asking you to focus, come into the hall. It's a draft decision. Is there a Pinzenic? Are you ready to report on personnel? 3255, 3256, 3115, 3117, they apply to Sverk, Sivrukov, Lucenko, Najem. Dear colleagues! These questions have already been discussed, all the discussions and reports have already taken place, and we can just vote them out. So I ask everyone to take their seats. And one thing at a time, I'm going to put it to a vote. Please take up jobs. First. The signal vote is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, head representatives, secretaries. It refers to the transition of Mustafa Nayem from the committee to the committee. Honorable colleagues, signal vote, draft Decree, 3117. Please vote 3117. We'll support Mustafa. It's a transition decree. [[01:30:45]] For-119 The decision is not made. The 3115 signal vote, this is Lucenko, moving from the committee to the committee. Who supports 3115, please vote. [[01:31:12]] For-129 129-yes. None. I ask you not to scream so loud, not to raise your hand. Don't scream, please! I'll ask you again. Turn on the microphone at the rostrum. Ola Chervakov from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u429	Dear colleagues! It's a disgrace to what's going on. We have two colleagues, Gregory Schwerk and Vladislav Sevrukov, who became national deputies on September 17th, and since then they have not been members of any committee, for they have become hostages of shameful political trades for positions of various factions. I'm asking you to concentrate, because they have to work somewhere. It's not right that we're depriving a committee MP right now. Vote, please. Gregory Schwerk and Vladislav Sevrukov are to become members of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u430	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 3255, which refers to the national deputy of Sevrukov. 3255, who supports, please vote. Please vote. Please vote. 3255. [[01:32:50]] For-173 173. The decision is not made. And the last staff decision, that's 3256, national deputy Sverk. Please, project number 3256. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[01:33:21]] For-183 You don't make a decision, I'm afraid. The human rights issues did not get the required number of votes again. And obviously we need to keep working with the deputies in that direction. Dear colleagues! Nina Yuzanin, please. Nina Yuzanin. As long as Nina Yuzanin walks, one minute Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u431	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you, perhaps some little information that's already arrived on December 25. And that means that, for example, I wanted to look at the "Council" system, which in a disgraceful way does not vote in favour of our poor colleagues who are actually deprived of their right to work. And we have the program loaded on December 24th. We can't even look at the roll call. That's why we have to make a decision. We're already on December 25th, and we have a day-to-day schedule on December 24th, and we have a system running on December 24th. So if we work December 25th, let's define the technical and legal forms of work December 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u432	So I'm asking you now on a daily basis, December 24, or December 25, we have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of applying tax compromises to monthly advances on corporate income tax (2795). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[01:35:31]] For the 120th. Dear colleagues, once again, I ask you to support the reduced procedure of 2795. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] How does the system fail? Could that be so?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u433	No, they say there are technical difficulties, I have to clarify. Wait a second. So in spite of the collapse in the system, I would like to support 2795 with a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[01:36:42]] For 124 They say the system's not working. Now I'm going to clarify the technical data of our system. I'm going to clarify the technical data of our system and let you know. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u434	Dear colleagues, we have consulted with the Head of the Supreme Council, is an offer to announce a recess while the budget committee is in place. Is this proposal supported? Supportable, colleagues. There's a break and we're meeting in the hall at 2.30 p.m. The Committee on Budgets stresses that this is the time they need. Dear colleagues and heads of factions, we will gather and be a budget committee. At 2:30, we continue our work. Break for 50 minutes. At 2:30 a.m., we continue our work. Wait a second, there's new information. Maybe even a smaller break. Yes, dear colleagues, half an hour. Half an hour, the budget committee's already leaving and they're coming here with a budget. So we're going to be going to 2.10. Society, no later. I know it's hard, everybody, friends. And it's hard for the budget committee. Half an hour. At 2.10 we start our work on budget adoption. The Society, I beg you, hold back your emotions, please concentrate, re-acquaint yourself with all the budget positions that are already allocated. You have an excellent opportunity to work on documents for half an hour. And at 2.10 we're going to go over the budget. Dear colleagues, at 2.10, please be ready for work in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u435	Dear colleagues, have you all read the budget? Have you read all the standards? Did you get to [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we invite fellow MPs into the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for Ukraine. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, and we'll invite fellow MPs into the hall. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please, invite the deputies to the Hall, get them off the papers, and go to work in the Hall, please. There's already a representative of the President, that's half right now. Please, faction heads, we're mobilizing a special warehouse. We are preparing for a professional discussion. Please come into the hall, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Please. Dear colleagues, not all have yet entered the hall. I'm asking you to come in and take up jobs. The secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the committees will be transferred to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u436	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are initiating a review of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act. In accordance with the rules of procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I propose the following procedure for dealing with this matter. The Minister of Finance's report, within 10 minutes, the report, the Minister of Finance's response to questions from the National Deputies, by 5 p.m. The report of the First Deputy Chairman of the Committee of Amelchenk Vasil Vasilovic – up to 5 minutes. Up to five minutes, the committee's response, statements by representatives of the MPs and groups, up to three minutes for the performance, and three speeches by the deputies, three minutes. Then the final word of the Minister of Finance and the closing statement of the representative of the committee. We're all taking 1 hour 10 minutes. Please take your seats. For the report, I invite the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Natalia Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u437	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 project is supported by taking into account the changes adopted in the Tax Code and other laws included in the budget package, and you have adopted today. The income part of the State Budget project is based on tax reform, including the EU, changes in the terms of the special agricultural taxation regime and the introduction of rents for amber and other purposes. The forecast revenue for the State budget for 2016 is increasing compared to the approved figures for 2015 with the changes. One billion dollars, 15.1 percent, up to 595.1 billion dollars. The total expenditure and lending of the State budget for 2016 is increasing by 86.7 billion in 2015 compared with the approved figures, 14.5 percent to 684.5 billion in 2015. The draft budget provides for an increase in minimum wage and subsistence minimum by 12.5 percent, December to December of the previous year, in two stages: May 1 and December 1st. Defence and security expenses, taking into account the decisions of the LLDC on 11 November 2015, amounting to 113.6 billion dollars or 5 percent of GDP. It should be noted that we have taken into account some 20 changes that have been made by the members of the Supreme Council during the last week. So the budget changes that have been made to you since the 11th of this month are about 20s coming out of those bills that we've adopted with you. Last of all, I want to point out that the 2016 State Budget project provides a deficit of 3.7 per cent of GDP within the IMF lighthouse against 4.1 per cent of GDP in 2015. Thank you for your attention. And I would like to support, on the whole, as proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u438	Dear colleagues, five minutes to ask. Please. Sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs, I said five minutes to ask, and you signed up. What are you talking about? Do you want to do it again? My colleagues, there'll be another recording. Five minutes to ask. Sign up. Please sign up for the question. Victoria the Bird. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u439	Fisherman, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u440	Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u441	Dear colleagues! In article 11, there is such an interesting sub-item, "To establish that the sources of the creation of the special state budget fund of Ukraine for the 16th year are part of the income." It continues to be described as "the cost of payment by disabled persons of the partial cost of cars and the cost of carrying out cars returned to the disabled. If it does not betray memory, we have decided that no cars return with disabilities, even after their death by their relatives. And the second question is, what is 50 percent of the spending on surplus arms in a war country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u442	Thank you. Please respond. Please respond, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u443	Dear National Deputies! These are the funds that come from selling technology to the Department of Defense's special fund. Technical correction, we're going to make changes to these, we're going to delete them. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u444	Exclusion. The disabled will be removed because we have adopted a separate rule of the law that technology is not being removed from the disabled. That's why we're removing it from the budget law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u445	Please, Martovicki, National Deputy, Opoblok. Natala Krávsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u446	Please give Natalie the word of the King. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u447	I want to ask the Ministry of Finance, which was budgeted at 3:00 a.m. A budget that no MP has seen in this room, and now at night, you want to vote for it. For a $5 budget, I want to draw your attention: $5 raises the minimum wage and $6 raises the minimum pension. And you believe that with such social standards on your Christmas night we have the right to propose the country's budget constitution for next year. But you also propose in this budget that 391 million dollars be spent on financing political parties. The opposition bloc believes that this is unacceptable. And I would like to hear your opinion on how people live in 2016 with such budget proposals? We definitely don't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u448	Thank you for asking. First of all, the budget was submitted on September 15th and cancelled. He hung out and was published on the Ministry of Finance's website. The other one. The budget was introduced on the 11th of this month. And here, as I told you, the change is only about 20. We brought it in earlier, and you had access to it. As far as social standards are concerned, we are very proud that this year we were able to raise more than 13 percent of the population before we were offered to raise the socionomy in the next year at inflation levels, and faster. I mean, from May 1st, not the end of the year, from May 1st. As far as financing political parties are concerned, this is in line with the law that you have enacted here in the Supreme Council and is the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u449	Thank you. Please, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u450	Please pass the word to Mr. Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u451	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u452	Thank you, colleagues of Najim Mustafa. Dear Head, Reverend Prime Minister, Your Honorable Colleagues! I will not take time to explain to you the disastrous consequences for the Crimean Tatar people as a result of the Russian occupation. We try to do our best to carry out educational programs or to maintain the culture of the Crimean Tatar people. We talked about the need to finance the Mabelis programs of the Crimean Tatar people. Mr. Prime Minister or Minister of Finance, I would like you to comment on the fact that financing the programmes of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, including the cost of the activities of the only one in the world Crimecatatarian television channel ATR. We were talking about 40 million dollars. I don't see them in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u453	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u454	Mr. Rephat, first of all, I very much appreciate your position and how you fight for the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. Your position was that the government and the state were bound to fight the same way and help you. That is why, directly on the basis of your proposal, 40 million dollars were included in the budget to finance and support the activities of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people. With regard to the activities of ATR, the budget of the State Department of Technology provides the right funds. And we're going to be buying appropriate television programs in the ATR channel. 40 million are budgeted directly for the activities of Majlis. In the budget, I'm saying this now under the transcript, in the budget of 40 million because of the appropriate department of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u455	Please, People's Deputy Wesselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u456	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u457	I want to ask Deputy Prime Minister Zubko about the request, and the self-help union, and the profile committee, about funding the difference in tariffs in this budget. Please tell me why. As a matter of fact, you have not been able to stand back and justify the damage to businesses that provide water to people because the state does not compensate in full for the tariffs and sets out what the National Commission does. How is it that the Department of Profiles has not been able to resist the absolute fact that exists today? That's the first question. And the second question to the Secretary of Defense. How has it been shown that the State has forgotten its obligation to compensate employers for the wages of those people whose employers are required to support and are now mobilized? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u458	I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that this is a common task for us to use the funds that are in the state and that are being sent to a subsidy that is different from the tariffs. Since this year, the government has sent 5.6 billion. To this day, no calculations have been made to the end. There's 8.3 billion -- total debt. The question today is not simply to extinguish those. the difference in tariffs and use those funds that are already being channelled by the government and should be used by utility companies, and bring tariffs to the economically sound according to the laws that we passed here together. And we're in the last one. The following year, we need to work together, together on these tasks, not to question each other the questions that you are asking today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u459	Thank you. Please, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is that the Ministry of Social Policy is concerned with the care of demobilized military personnel. But this question is taken into account, and those who will be released and not have enough money, are budgeted, will be budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u461	Thank you. Please report, time for questions and answers completed, report from the committee. Please, last question, Alexi Musak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u462	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers! Alexi Muschak, Peter Dustenka Block, Interfractional European Optimist Union. First of all, I want to welcome you with considerable progress: of course, we also vote at night, of course, you make a budget on the last parliamentary day, but at least we have a paper version. We hope that some time later, perhaps years later, after 2, we will arrive at the time when the budget will be budgeted under the September 15th Rules. At the same time, if you have already given a paper version of the budget, it raises the question of hosting the All-U.S. Patriotic song "Be Free" -- 24 million dollars or a million dollars. We people's deputies are ready to participate in the cast at this festival and sing for ourselves, frankly. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. If you still decide that national MPs are not worthy of this, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u463	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u464	With this money, we're ready to bring a group of U2s or Red Hot Chili Peppers to your choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u465	I strongly support your position that you can sing without money. Therefore, what has been introduced by the State Administration, not by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but by another organization, is being removed from the State Budget of Ukraine and transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. You're a Eurooptimist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u466	Thank you. Colleagues, from the committee, please. Please, colleagues. Please, Sergey Melnik, report five minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u467	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs has just concluded its meeting on the budget, at which the Government's draft State Budget Bill 2016 was discussed. Taking into account his discussion during the presentation to the Supreme Council of the comments of the Committee on Budget Affairs and adopted changes to tax, budgetary and other legislation. The committee's meeting supports proposals for changes and additions to text articles, such as strengthening parliamentary control over the use of budgetary resources and clarifying the names of individual budget programmes. It is also suggested that changes be made to some of the indicators, including an increase of 100 million dollars in expenditures to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by reducing the cost to the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces. An increase of 42 million dollars to the Ministry of Culture for development and implementation of state-wide cultural measures, the use of Ukrainian language for revenue increases. Predicting the expenditure of 200 million dollars for the acquisition of mammograms and O.D.S. equipment, the program that worked this year, but not funded. The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers is to process all proposals made by the Budget Committee and to make appropriate proposals to the 2016 State Budget by 1 March for consideration by the Supreme Council. A total of over 600 resource proposals have been made. In general, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision: recommending a bill to be adopted by the Government on registration number 3000 on the basis and, in general, as a law that takes into account the proposals made by the Committee that are now being drawn up, have already been drafted and submitted. In the event that such a bill is adopted in the preparation of the relevant law for signature, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Legal Authority of the Office of the Authority, shall make the necessary changes to it in the decision-making process, as well as editorial and technical legal remedies. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u468	Please. Please, Maxim Chicken. Sergey Ivanovich will then proceed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u469	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Mr. Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! Everyone knows what tragic events the country has experienced, this year a large number of fires, a large number of accidents. It all seemed because we were in a very difficult situation with the Emergency Service. They're not equipped with normal fire-fighting techniques. That's why, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, my fellow Members, I ask you to support our proposal and add 265 million dollars to the fire-fighting program of the country's very own production under budget classification code 1006090. And for the purpose of providing this program with funds, I propose to reduce the corresponding amount of expenditure from the programme code 1211,000, which is from the Ministry of Economics. I think it's from.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u470	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u471	I think it's from public spending that these personal expenses for the acquisition of fire-fighting domestic manufacturing will be more perceived by our society. This is more needed by our nation today. Thank you, and I'd like you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u472	Please sign up for a question to the co-rapporteur, the deputy head of the committee. Please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Levus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u473	Please give Medunica the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u474	Dear friends, if we're in this room right now from each faction, either from each MP or every MP to make proposals, then you and I will be done with the budget in two months. Therefore, I ask you to vote on the budget committee's proposal and to vote in favour of the adoption of this budget as drafted in which the budget committee, together with the government, has submitted to the Supreme Council as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u475	Thank you. That's not a question. Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u476	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u477	Dear reporter, please tell me how the committee assessed the granting of State guarantees on government debts. the public stock company Naftogaz Ukraine for the price imported from European natural gas suppliers. Please tell me from which time on this state guarantees by. Does it provide guarantees on the debts of enterprises that should be self-sustaining? We do not grant such privileges to other gas suppliers. So I'd like to hear what was going on on the committee. And secondly, another private enterprise called the Creature Mining Coupling Ore Acidification Combine, why are we also giving him budget support at 23.8 million dollars? Please explain how this issue was discussed in the committee: the granting of State guarantees and the support of a private enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u478	Well, on the issue of safeguards, there were two bills that had unfortunately not been considered, but were put forward for consideration to create an additional government guarantee instrument, which are European funds that are allocated to create an energy fund for the purchase of reverse gas. That's why we didn't discuss it on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u479	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u480	I would like to give a specific answer to the distinguished national MP. You've just mentioned that this is like a private company in Kryvý Roz, and I want to inform you that this is not a private enterprise, but that this is an enterprise that was still being built in Soviet times by Romania, Hungary and Ukraine, this is a joint property that is a state property of Ukraine, and we're now in international courts on the grounds that the courts on the grounds that we're finally entraping this enterprise by state ownership. That's why these funds go exclusively to a state-owned enterprise. This is for you. With regard to any other State guarantees, I would like to make it clear that it is because of our joint efforts and yours, including the Government of Ukraine, that it is possible to get an extremely cheap loan from the European Development and Reconstruction Bank and from other European partners to buy gas, not in the Russian Federation, but in the western border of Ukraine in European companies. And that's where we issue state guarantees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u481	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kodol, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u482	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. The People's Front faction supports the committee's decision, supports the coalition government's decision, and as the foundation of the coalition, our faction proposes to go to the vote and support the draft budget for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u483	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u484	I have a question not to our colleague-deputy, who is a hostage, but to the Prime Minister. A year ago, you told us that this is an exception, that we should vote at 5 a.m. because we have all the vitalities. What happened this year: Why are we voting again at 4 in the morning? What prevents us from having a normal discussion? What's going on? And I have a question: where are the dividends from the company Skrnafta in the next year's budget? How much was received this year? Has Prime Minister Yatzenuk implemented an article in the budget to receive 1.8 billion dollars of dividends from a company in Cologne, which is a business partner of his immediate environment? Its nearest environment. Let the Prime Minister report on how much we've received, Ukrainian taxpayers, for this. That's the conspiracies. Maybe he has some argument for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u485	Mr. Leschchenko, Ukrainian National Deputy! I'll keep you informed on every question you just asked. First. You said last year we promised not to accept the budget at 5 a.m. We have fulfilled our promise. We'll take the budget in half-fourth. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. You've passed the law, and you've adopted a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that clearly defines. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades! If you'll let me finish. Which clearly defines the order and procedure of the review of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, the Ukrainian government introduced all laws to the Ukrainian Parliament with the aim of balancing Ukraine's State budget. And I greatly appreciate and appreciate the position of the Ukrainian national deputies who have taken decisions today only today to make changes to tax legislation and other laws that form an income and expenditure portion of the State budget. And despite the fact that the government of Ukraine on September 15th, as provided for in the Budget Code, submitted a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. The other one. The Government of Ukraine has similarly submitted to the Supreme Council 11 copies of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Third. In accordance with your decision, the Government of Ukraine has drafted the State Budget Act, which is now adopted on a balanced basis, on the basis of those laws that were passed at 16 hours, we hope today to adopt the State Budget Act, and Ukraine will have the State Budget Act as of 1 January. As for your question of 1.8 billion dollars to be paid to the government budget as dividends. I would like to remind you that it was through our joint work that the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend the Act on Shareholders and the State of Ukraine has returned control of the company "Ukranafta". It was the government of Ukraine that held an observer council and general shareholders. And British citizen Mark Rollins was appointed by the general shareholders' congregations as head of the company Ukranafta. According to a contract signed with the head of the company Skrnafta, he is obliged to pay dividends of 1.8 billion dollars by the end of this year. By the end of this year, there are days left. Yesterday, I had a meeting with the head of the company, Mark Rollins, and I warned him that the failure to fulfil the obligation he had personally signed in his appointment to this office was entailing dismissal and non-payment, fines. I expect the company Skrnafta and the head of the company Skrnafta, as defined by the contract, to pay 1.8 billion dividends by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u486	Thank you. Question time is over. The factions are about to come from the factions. One question. Jaroslav Moskalenko. Please. And statements from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u487	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Prime Minister! Arseny Petrovich, I'm sure our people are no easier off than the Minister's Office has laid down some funding rule or DUS. And we've been talking to you, and you've been reducing social protection spending since this year on the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. And we ask you to take into account that in the following year 30 years of liquidation and leave the level of expenditure at this year's level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u488	Thank you. Please, Arseny Petrovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u489	Thank you for asking. In view of changes in legislation, categories of benefits were adjusted according to the actual need. I would like to point out that in 2015 all social programs and wages were fully funded. And so far, there is no fiscal debt in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u490	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Please speak from the factions. Sign up. Three minutes from the factions. From factions and groups. Please, Your Honor, speak up. Rebirth Party, national deputy Klimov. Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u491	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, from the very beginning of this coalition, this government has been constantly speaking and reminding it that it will be a new year. And in February, we started talking about what needs to be done on a new basis, we need a new Tax Code, and we don't have to postpone it until the end of the year, the last three weeks to do it, we have to do it from February. We talked in September about what would happen next year, and there would be a new fiscal year, a codex, a budget, and start working with it in September. Unfortunately, you've done, coalition, everything, to tighten the budget, the Tax Code by the end of the year, and now you've made the hostages a complete parliament and you want to make us vote under the Christmas tree all the things we've been given here and how you want to do it, and you're going to figure it out. But we understood the situation, we saw your work, we saw in two years how much trouble we've caused in the country, how much inflation we've caused, how many social problems we've caused for people who've done tariffs and never solved the issue. And we understand that you need to get out of this situation, because you've already taken hostages not only of Parliament and Government, you've taken hostages from all over the country. Social hostages, you conduct economic experiments. But we have to stop. So we've made hundreds of amendments that have made it possible to protect the social things that have stopped your tax experiments that have saved the simplified tax system that have allowed us to go down the only social contribution that has solved the issues for agrarians not to slaughter our last cow uncle in their villages. We have decided to leave the children free of charge so that local budgets are not robbed as planned by this government and this coalition. And we understand that there are dozens of other issues that need to be addressed. But we understand the responsibility for the budget to work. That pensions have to be paid off, which should be paid on time to budgeters, teachers, doctors, and so forth. So we certainly understand that your irresponsibility will lead to the fact that the budget can simply be broken, unacceptable, and the country will be left in ruins again. And we'll wait for you to get together in February or March to make some new changes. So we saw that most of our comments, which enabled us to at least partially resolve the situation, provided local budgets with funds. And we have made the decision to still give you the opportunity to get out of this situation, to support it. But we understand that in the first quarter, you have to make changes to the budget, you have to solve tariff issues, you have social issues, you have to increase wages, you have to raise the population's income. And to solve the problems you've created for people over the last two years of yours, I'm sorry, coalitions. Although it is no longer known as a coalition. It's not just anarchy you've developed in Parliament. In the ministries, in the fields. And unfortunately, this anarchy is coming to people right now, and people are reaping the fruits of your activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u492	Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u493	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Dear Prime Minister and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! You know, one of the deputies of our faction in the party chat yesterday wrote a phrase that I want to start with. There are too many hysteria in the country, too many who want to take over the powers of judges and prosecutors, and there are so few people in the country who talk about construction and development. We should finally learn here in Parliament not only to say critical backs, although there are reasons for them. We must not only condemn and find fault in the activities of both the President and the government and us sinners with you. But we still have to put a new and new brick into the Ukrainian state. And today's budget is going to be this brick. I won't applaud him, it's a very difficult budget, it's a very difficult tax code, it's a very difficult social package. But without that, there will be no pensions, wages and business development, and so the country’s prospects. We represent, BP represents a party that has taken responsibility. We are grateful to all colleagues who will now vote together. The budget is not a party document, the budget is a countrywide document. Colleagues from Self-Help, just like the Horn of Curves, need honest elections, so the whole country needs a budget. I'm counting on us to go through these difficult times. And there aren't that many left. But like many of my colleagues, I remember Poland in the '90s, where I went to make a penny off a salary they didn't pay, and year after year they debated, but they built Poland and built it. Just as they built the Baltic, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Bulgaria -- all the countries to the west of us. At last, the President brought us a civilisational solution, a visa-free regime. We're in Europe! And that's why we may not be in European right now, but we're voting for moving forward. The budget is the guarantee that the country will break, not stagnation and hyperinflation. It'll go away. Colleagues, all those who now vote in favour will take on a heavy burden, but those who do not do so will do so as easily, but risk throwing the country simply into the abyss of hyperinflation, anarchy and irresponsibility. We are responsible for those who take responsibility at the most difficult times, and we are responsible for everything! But we do believe that Ukraine will. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u494	Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u495	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national MPs, during 2015 we have heard optimistic statements by government representatives regarding the economic improvement of the reform of the state budget and, frankly, we have hoped that some of these victories will enter into the new draft budget to be considered for 2016. Unfortunately, we have received a draft budget, which in our experience is essential. will lead to a major deterioration in people’s lives. And the main problem with this budget is pensioners, because there is not enough funding in the pension index budget, and given that 80 percent of the inflation in the previous two years was only 12 percent of the indexation, and 12 percent of the index for this year is also. We believe that 10 million pensioners will have significantly worsened living conditions. There are also problems in financing education and in financing health care. Health - care funding simply decreased, and there is no corresponding education funding index. So given these factors, our faction believes that this budget does not suit the interests of society, we will not vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u496	Please, Anatoly Hirschfeld, "The Will of the Nard."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u497	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Tell me, what could be expected from the budget when the country lost the largest amount of GDP in its history in the past year? We've been out of $174 billion in the last two years for almost $80 billion. What social standards can we ensure with such low GDP? What should the Government have done in that situation? At least draw up a serious road map of reforms that would help to understand gross products, create new jobs, indeed, to generate economic growth. Unfortunately, we didn't see that. We have made some difficult decisions today that have enabled us to draw up a budget in this situation. I would like to say that in such complex decisions that have been taken on agriculture today, it was certainly necessary to add money both to support animal production and to finance the leasing of agricultural appliances in order to facilitate the business conditions of agriculture, because they did not have a year to go. I also wanted to talk about our defences, and I am looking at an article on which new developments should be financed, and they are financed by an article that provides for the proceeds of corruption schemes that will be allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers at their discretion. That is, if we do not have corruption in the country, the new developments in the Ministry of Defence will not be financed. Although you and I have taken 10 billion extra money to the Ministry of Defense. We need to talk seriously about the reforms that we are going to undertake in the country in order to get out of the risk zone, because we are in a very risky area of income today, of GDP per capita. We need to identify sectors that will be locomotives, special economic regimes that were established in Eastern Europe, and ultimately win the battle for investment. If we do not win and create such a legislative framework, we will not be helped by the changes that we have adopted today in the Tax Code. We will be on the side of the world's division of labour and will never be able to escape the pit where the country is today. Having social responsibility and considering that many of our team's proposals have been taken into account, I think the things I said in the rostrum will also be taken into account, we will support the budget, but we need to finally make the road map that will help the country out of the situation we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u498	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u499	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Arsenius Petrovich, almost 4 a.m., December 25, 2015, Christmas of Christ in our Catholic brothers, with whom we welcome them. When you say that you promised the people's deputies that they would be with you tonight in Parliament and Santa Claus, it might be interesting to you, but I think that you, as party leader, the head of the government, should unite this hall and thank all the people's deputies that they are working at night in this room this morning to look at the documents that you were supposed to bring to Parliament by September 15th. You didn't comply with these requirements of the law, you didn't make them, you didn't make them last year, and this year you're putting the budget under the tree, and you're forcing the entire parliament, and you're forcing the whole country to observe these peripheries. If you had complied with the requirements of the Constitution and the law, you would have considered everything, voted, and people would have been with their families, relatives, and loved ones instead of sitting here overnight in Parliament. Now, as far as the point is concerned, I'm waiting for Mr. Prime Minister when you thank the National Deputies. Now, regarding the substance of the document under consideration. Two main tools in the country: The Tax Code and the Budget should be development tools. Are there changes that have been voted in Parliament today, or is there a budget that the government is proposing with development tools? No, they're not, they don't stimulate economic development, they don't support small and medium-sized businesses, they don't support agriculture, they don't allow agriculture to develop. But what function does this budget perform? The only possible function of this budget is the survival budget. The Radical Party is in opposition to the course of the President, the government and the parliamentary majority. We think that this course is harmful to the country, and we think that in order for the country not to just survive, but to live and be successful, we have to overcome corruption and, first of all, make a bet on our own economy, to develop our own economy, this is what the budget should be for. Unfortunately, it does not meet these goals, neither the 2015 budget nor the 2016 budget you have proposed. But the Radical Party is opposed to power, but the Radical Party is not opposed to Ukraine, and we understand that Ukraine should be budgeted. That's why our faction will vote for your budget, for your shameful budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u500	Please, Oleg. Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u501	The Self-Help Association today gave a large part of its vote for supporting the Tax Code, a code that we all understood was not a code of development, but not a deterioration. And we expected a budget to be prepared in this context. When we get acquainted with this budget, just like everyone else in the evening, today, and we see that it has discriminatory norms in relation to market subjects, which we have just begun to liberalize when we give privileged positions of Naftogaza Ukraine to all the rest when we translate into employers the financing of the salaries of the mobilized into the military when we ignore or close our eyes that we are translating into a consumer payment of fines for the debts of the state and we say that we have everything normal and we are absolutely white saying black when we finance the Marian Palace, its repairs in terms of reducing funding to buy drugs for those with oncological diseases, and we say that we have all of a year that we have a black saying when we finance the Mariana Palace, its renovations in terms of reducing the financing of buying drugs for those who are oncologically ill, we believe that we will have a new monetary treatment program today, and we are not trying to translate it into a budget that we are now, and we are not trying to translate it into a level that we are trying to understand it. We're ready to consider it after we see how those amendments that were submitted to the deputies that were discussed on the committee today, how they would be taken into account and what would be done, we're ready to consider this document on Monday or Tuesday. Today, under such conditions, we are not ready to support this document of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u502	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u503	Dear friends, today we are voting not for the country's budget if it is voted on, but for the nation's 2016 development strategy. We all understand that in a radical decline in the economy in the state, all the major resources of the budget would have to be directed towards economic activity, to support the economy. I hold in my hands the conclusion of the Court of Auditors on the structure of the budget expenditure. Thus, 30.9 percent of the expenditure is directed to economic activity. We should now support culture, spirituality, education, instead. To be stronger, instead, we have spiritual and cultural development -- minus 40 percent, according to the Court of Auditors, and for education -- minus 16 percent, with a reduction of 10 percent of teachers in schools, teachers and the reduction of all educational institutions in general. You know, I think this budget is full of raisins and before I say a few strategic things, I'm still going to say, for example, I'm going to say what. What "self-help" said, 95 million for repairing just decorative premises for the Ukrainian authorities, 95 million for maintenance of the entire Ombudsman system, is for the protection of human rights and freedoms. And if we put together special programs on DUSU and the Art Terminal, we're going to get 150 million in nowhere, and that's about the same thing as setting up the state border during the war. A special lineage, a unique one, for example, for the maintenance of the Vinick region’s administration, is more directed than the maintenance of the city’s capital administration, Kyiv. Tell me, do we have a new one to worry about?Oh, my God! In doing so, there remains a tariff policy against which all the deputies in this room opposed. There is still a 46 per cent lack of indexation of pensions and wages in inflation. The Ministry of Defence's underfunding in the course of the war remains: minus 8.2 percent. And 5.5 billion dollars for the Ministry of Defense of Confiscation, which is not going to happen. Regional budgets, villages, villages and cities of district subordination are zero tax on the income of individuals who are budgeted, and they are all indisposed. What are we doing?Oh, my God! And there's so much corruption. For example, on the Ucroborprom in statutory capital of 10 billion dollars, we don't know what. Do you understand? And I want to say that all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u504	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u505	It's all our budget. I just want to ask the deputies to be responsible for what we do. And if the children of the fourth, the first grade cancels out, and twice as much targets the maintenance of the government apparatus, the increase that we do? Stop! And build a country, not your own interests!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u506	It was Winnicka who was specifically named, is that what I'm saying? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Well, that's true. In the Winnitz region, the largest number of rural councils in Ukraine. And I think that when there were different cabinets of ministers, including different prime ministers, the ratio of these numbers was the same, because it's people's wages. And, more than that, they're not hoodlums. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u507	Dear Chairman! Dear Prime Minister! Deputies! Today we make a very important decision. Today we need to identify who is responsible for our country's future, who understands that our nation should enter the next year with a budget -- a budget that supports our resilience, a budget that supports raising social standards, a budget that supports the future of our European Ukraine. Therefore, the People's Front will support the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2016 and calls on all deputies to vote in favour, so that Ukraine will still become a European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u508	Thank you, Your Honor. We have three records from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please prepare for the presentation. Procedure. Three speeches from the national deputies. Please log in. Irina Heratchenko. Please. Irina Heratschenko, please. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u509	Dear colleagues, we would like to thank the Committee on Budgets, which predicted an increase in expenses for a small amount, but an increase in expenditures for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the context of the diplomatic war that is taking place against Ukraine. And I have a question right now with Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk. We see that we've been given these changes to the budget, where it's pointed out that there's an increase of 100 million dollars in expenditures for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the expense of the Ministry of Defence. You said the same thing would go from 25 million to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to an extra one instead of a patriotic song. Because I think our foreign ministry will do much more patriotic for Ukraine. Do we understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is increasing its spending by 125 million? Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u510	That's right. That's right. Please, National Deputy Podobraznjak Vadim Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u511	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u512	Please. The Prime Minister will say. But it's true, it's counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u513	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Prime Minister, the Honourable Government, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I very much ask you all to understand the importance of the moment that we are experiencing right now. I understand perfectly that each of us is concerned about doing our job in a good way and has benefited from it in our country. Let us remember that we are in a state of war and that it is vital not to make mistakes. Let's understand that now our boys are in the trenches and they expect us not to make mistakes that can make things worse in the country. Let us also understand that our budget will finance the country's defence sector at a time when we are suffering aggression from the Russian Federation. Let us understand that we justify the trust of our Western partners, who continue to support the economy with their money. Let us understand that the whole country is now watching us and is expecting balanced and intelligent decisions from us. So I very much ask everyone to understand the responsibility that lies ahead of us and to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u514	Please make your last speech, Dmitri Dobrodomov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u515	I ask you to pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u516	Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u517	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to the filth, so to speak, which is set up in this budget, especially with regard to the coal sector. This is essentially the murder of the coal sector of Ukraine. What is being done with health care We see that 200 million people vote on mammograms that have not been used long ago in the world to diagnose breast cancer and use ultrasound. The same lobby articles, hundreds of millions of them, have been pervaded in this state budget. I would like to invite you to look at what you say and how you will look into the eyes of your constituents who live in the villages where you kill the Ukrainian village. Those voters who live in cities where you kill Ukrainian businesses. Those voters who are united in local communities, where you do not share medical subsidies for health care reform. I think Ukraine will be able to survive the actual abuse of the Ukrainian people in this budget for another month. I want to express the position of our People's Control party, which not only accepts the method of passing this budget, which once again looks like the abuse of the Prime Minister over the National Deputies, and he allows himself such notes, you know, that you're all bound here. And in fact, I think that this plot of the queue that we see in the Supreme Council Hall between the seem-to-be-conquered "Peter Prashenka Block" and "The People's Front" parties again with those people who voted in favour of the 16th of January laws, from "The Rebirth," from "The Will of the People," you will remember that you will be personally accountable to the Ukrainian people. And the Ukrainian people will not suffer such abuse for a long time. And if you want a rebellion that erupts in Ukrainian society, you will get it definitely, only much bloodier than the dignity revolution. I call on national MPs not to vote for the antisocial, anti-national, anti-Ukrainian and anti-government budget offered by this disgraceful government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u518	Dear colleagues! You know, I think this budget, it gives an answer, including the preservation of the decentralization system, even strengthens it. And everyone here who comes to the village will see that you are supported. The same is true of the united territorial communities, which are separate support programs, and this will be a success story for Ukraine. There are many positive things, and of course there are many raw things that can be discussed today. And every digit can be compared to something, but if it's true, it's a question. Okay. Dear colleagues, we have completed the discussion procedure. I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. And I'd like everyone to take their seats in the hall, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u519	Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished deputies of Ukraine! I would like to start by saying thank you sincerely, thanking every national MP. The People's Front, the Petra Poshenko Block, Self-Help, the Radical Party, the MPs and factions, because you helped make it better during this budget and all these tax changes. And it doesn't matter whether you support this budget or not, whether you support it or not. But together with you, we have managed to make those acts of government legislation better, stronger and more effective. And I thank you very much for that. Now, about what we accept. I'm asking everyone not to forget what we're doing specifically for the country. Who could have expected that a few years ago, when a salary tax was paid, the only social contribution that was and was a burden on business, on the employee and on the employer would be reduced by two times? From 41 percent to 22. And this is your credit, distinguished national MPs! We did it. Who could have expected that our fiscal decentralization, which has been widely criticized, including in the walls of the honourable Ukrainian Parliament, would allow for an increase of 40 percent in local budgets. And that's the money going to the hospital, to the school, to the infrastructure. Who could have expected that eventually you and I would come together on the matter of both the congregation and the reimbursement of the added value tax. We've put together a new VAT administration system. And you and I today have put together a new public tax compensation system for the added value. And it's also yours and ours. There were many additional suggestions. In answer to the question of the honourable Irina Heratchenko, we added 200 million on our own, 100 million today during the committee meeting and another 24 million today. to the Ministry of I respect the position expressed by the Radical Party today on the point that we need to create an export credit agency in Ukraine. So the government decides to set up such an agency. And Ukreximbank must be the founder of such an agency. We're restoring programs in both mammograms and providing funding for 400 million dollars for emergency services. We support all the proposals made by the MPs, which are aimed at the economic stability of the country. I realize that this is the worst budget, the budget always requires more resources, more money and more spending. But you and I, your respectable colleagues, can only spend what we earn. 12 percent of further increases in social standards next year. This year, thanks to our joint decision, we added 13 percent to pensioners and 19 percent to the rise in social standards for the public sector, for teachers, for doctors, for our public sector. I am aware that we will have to continue to work not only on this budget but also on all reforms, both tax and medical, as well as on education. You and I are doing our job step by step, and we're actually doing it. For 22 months, no one expected the country to make such progress. And I remain an optimist, not just a european optimist, but a Ukrainian optimist. We are able to carry out reforms, we are able to achieve results if we are alone. Unity is our guarantee of Ukrainian success and of a strong European Ukrainian state. I ask you to support our common future and vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u520	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, I am voting for the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2016 (registration No. 3000) in accordance with the decision of the Committee with the amendment of the People's MP, with technical and legal rights as a whole, please vote. Vote. Please vote. In general, I ask you to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. [[04:04:40]] For 263 Budget approved, fellows! Fellow colleagues, I think we're disappointed today with all those who wanted a destabilisation scenario for Ukraine. The work went very, very hard, and the budget wasn't strategic, it was more tactical. And we have a lot of work to do with you. And I am convinced that we will do everything we can to ensure the strategic development of our nation. And another thing that's very important. Please remain in your seats. Colleagues, we've preserved decentralization, we've preserved a simplified system, we've saved a lot of things that the country expected. Dear colleagues, there's an offer for tomorrow's meeting. today's meeting. There's an offer to start it at 12 o'clock, right after you read the questions. We're serious enough. But I need your decision. I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. It's a 12-hour question. I'd like to vote on this proposal. Ready to vote? Please ask and "Rose" tomorrow. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote this proposal to replace "the government's hour" to read requests and speak at "the various." Is it accepted? At 12 o'clock, the beginning of the session, that should be your decision. Colleagues, please support this. Vote for it, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. [[04:06:57]] For 223 Fellows, once again, pay attention. Please, I see, I beg you all, come back. Colleagues, the proposal to start tomorrow's session is today, I'm sorry, at 12 o'clock today, the parliamentary requests and the "different" statements. Quiet, we'll vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[04:07:29]] For 242 The decision has been made. Thank you. Oxana Ivanovna Siroid. At 12 o'clock. Colleagues, everyone, please stay. Let's vote Clovis' arrest. Turn around. Colleagues, since there is no representative of the Attorney General's Office, I understand that. There's an offer in Hanna Hopko, this is a colleague of ours, a national MP, listen very carefully. Hanna Gopko, listen carefully, Hanna Gopko, attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u521	Dear colleagues, we failed yesterday during the ratification to vote on a very important agreement between Ukraine and Malaysia on the continuation of the Malaysian party's aviation investigation. I'm asking you to vote today, please, registration number 0070. Let's vote so that international Malaysian investigations can continue to work here, we vote 0070.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u522	Dear colleagues, the National MP, the head of the committee, Hanna Hopko, has put forward a proposal to vote on the basis and the entire Project Order 0070 on Investigations, you know, the broken Boeing. Ready? In general, 0070. Vote, please support, on the basis and in general. Vote, colleagues, 0070, please. This is about the Malaysian Boeing investigation. [[04:09:50]] For 247 Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! I am. Colleagues, we understand, we don't have to break procedures. Dear colleagues! Matthew's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask for your attention for a moment. This applies to all the district budgets. You're gonna go to your place right now, and you're gonna have problems if we don't solve this right now. The point is that today we have prepared changes for the environmental congregation, we should have introduced it since 2017. Unfortunately, the amendment, which came out of the voice, was voted to introduce it from 2016. And that means that the district budgets have accepted their budgets, and now they're off the hook. We've moved 20 percent from a special to a general government budget fund, and the district budgets are not now balancing budgets. So there's a proposal to support the environmental congregation for a special fund, but since 2017, the budget committee has voted for it, asking for it to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-24-m0.u524	Dear colleagues, I don't think this question is going to be catastrophic in January, the more I see the different opinions of the people's deputies. Therefore, respected colleagues, I declare the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
