ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Many of our national deputies in connection with the weather have not yet reached the session hall. But at the same time, two factions of Self-Help and the Radical Party appealed to the presidency to announce a half-hour break for consultations. And so, according to the Rules, at the request of two factions, we announce a half hour break. At the same time, a huge request to the Ukrainian national deputies, to the heads of factions, to bring the deputies to the hall to the maximum extent possible during the half hour. Today, the first question will be the removal of the touchiness. The question is twofold, hypersensitive, which is a huge social question. And in order for us to be able to respond to this request jointly, there is a huge request that we be in the room in half an hour, ready to work and ready to vote. A half - hour break is announced, until 10:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please take your seats in the session room. We can start our work. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:40:21]] 314 people's deputies in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come into the hall and take your seats. It's an important day. Today, we will discuss with you the question of parliamentary integrity, the inviolability of the judges brought by the President. I think there's no secret to anyone that society's been waiting for this decision for decades. And I deeply believe that it is this Parliament today, and in the future, that will make an extremely responsible decision to remove parliamentary immunity from the Ukrainian people's deputies, as well as from the judiciary, that will allow us to build a quality society without corruption, without abuse, and equalize the rights of all, as is the case with the Constitution, before the law. We will also consider a number of important bills, particularly with regard to local self-government, which are also expected for the regional communities of Ukraine. Before we begin to consider matters of the order of the day, I would like to carry out a very pleasant mission. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In accordance with President of Ukraine’s decree number 957, our colleague Lapin Igor Alexanderovich was awarded the Order of Bogdan Hmelnicki III. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And I invite you to give me this national award.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u3	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, are extremely grateful for this high reward. But first of all, I'd like to say that it's not just my reward, it's the reward of my brothers to the Idar battalion, who stormed with me cities such as Happiness, Metalist, Georgyuk, the Vergunsk Lugansk Party, this one. By the way, we've reached Lugansk, too, Krischeva, Lutugino, Sperm, Novosvetlovka. I would like all of us to take a moment of silence to mention our brothers. This is, in particular, from my unit, from my West Storm Company to the Idar Battalion, these are guys like Hennady Tom, Hamraev Rustam, Mikhaylov Oleg, Vishnevsky, Obalmasov, Klimczuk and many others, and such as Jurkevich. These are all heroes of Ukraine, these are all the guys I fought with. Let us mention them by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to give the floor to another colleague of ours, the representative of the "Fatherland" faction, Ivan Krulko. The point is, he was in Moscow, with our colleague, Hope Savchenko. And I want to give him the opportunity to give him information about what the real state of affairs with our colleague is. Please, John, let me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u5	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished National Deputies, yesterday with the sister of Hope Savechenko Vera, I was in Moscow, where I was able to reach out to the Russian investigation committee so that Vera could have a date with her sister Nadia. I would just like to say that with each other the procedure is getting more and more complicated. This month, in February, and February has just begun, most likely no one will be released before Hope. And Russia is doing everything possible, including procedural, to limit visitors' access to the Kremlin's main target, to Nadia Savchenko. At the same time, I would like to say that Nadia, our national MP, a member of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, has an extremely strong spirit. She's got a head start there. She's fighting the Putin regime there. It stands for Ukraine's independence and holds on very and very tightly. But today is the 55th day of the famine of Hope Savchenko. Think about it, 55 days! Savechenko's hope, although she's trying very hard to hold on, she has a very strong willpower, but she has every possibility of a human body. In fact, the question for today is about days to reach the immediate release of Hope of Savichenko. When she was associated with her yesterday, Nadia asked for a great deal of gratitude to all Ukrainian citizens, all the Ukrainian national deputies who supported her. And what happens when this session room asks questions about the Savichenko Hope is consolidating the session hall, unfortunately, unlike many other questions. This indicates that MPs can be united at very important times. I'd like to read a quote from Hope right now. "I feel surprisingly strong by supporting people who want me to do good, even though doctors say I'm only on the force of will." This is what Nadia asked to pass on to all, all the Ukrainians who are very supportive of her. And then yesterday we passed on a T-shirt signed by Ukrainians, Ukrainian patriots on the Maidan of Independence on the opening day of the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This T - shirt will at least warm it up a little bit and show that there is really support in Ukraine. And one more moment, dear colleagues. As long as this place is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u6	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u7	As long as this place is empty in front of the rostrum in the session room, until then we have no right to stop in order to free our Nadia from captivity. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the heroes of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u8	Thank you for the information. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda for today. Let's move on to the issue (registration number 1920) of the Order on the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call. The Conciliation Council worked on it and it was approved and brought to your attention. Is There a Need? You don't? I will then, if there are suggestions, then we will. Let's go from factions and groups, write down a minute's supply. Please, from factions per minute. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u9	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable fellow members of the national MPs, today we will make a historic decision on the next turn of the vote, which will allow the total elimination of parliamentary immunity. I'm going to all the colleagues in this room, and I'm going to ask all the Ukrainian citizens to see how this vote is going to take place. We have to vote, we have to undo the parliamentary immunity, that's what Maidan demanded of us, that's what Ukrainian society requires of us. The Radical Party faction will vote in favour of this bill and we will finally reach a historic decision, and we will undo the parliamentary integrity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u10	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u11	I ask you to give the floor to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u12	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, there was good practice in Parliament when we voted in favour of the agenda for the current session, we voted in favour of all the bills that were introduced at the opening of this session. Let's keep this practice, because we don't know why we didn't get extremely resonant bills that are registered, for example, by our faction. See, (No. 1874) – amendments to the Land Code, the acquisition of land ownership rights (No. 1906) – amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on preventing corruption in land relations and a number of others, (1875) – the State Quarantine Regulation system, and so on. I propose, Volodymyr Borisovich, to put to the vote the very bills that have been registered for today are voted by the House in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Bondar, People's Front, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u15	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u16	Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, today is a very important day, obviously, and important things will be considered today in the hall: both the removal of parliamentary integrity, and the media bills, particularly (1317), which finally show that the Ukrainian Parliament is able to protect its information space from Russian strength and presence, not even in the form of Russian television channels, but the information product. The People's Front also requests that a daily bill (1868) be included in the order of ownership of foreign media. We've really talked to our colleagues and we've come to a number of compromises on this issue, that the bill has to be substantially improved, we're willing to take these amendments into account in the transcript, but a huge request: do it as much as possible in the media package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Dear Mr. Head, it is you I would like to ask right now to give you the commission to find out whether there is true information that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, at the Selector's meeting, has authorized the release of up to 5 per cent of the budgeters who in our country are one and a half million. This is 100 people who could be on the street. The other one. I warn you, if that's true, I'll put hundreds of thousands of budget people under the Cabinet of Ministers, as I did with the miners. And we're going to help save jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, sit down, please! Guys, please take your seats. And, look, I think. Well, I haven't heard that before, so I think it's just talk about nothing. I'd like us now. I've given it a minute, I'd ask the factions to determine what's on the agenda, not the general question. So please, National Deputy Homutinnik, Economic Development. Take your seats, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! As for the order of the day session, we made our proposals, but unfortunately, for technical reasons, we don't see nine bills in this order of day. So we ask them to join us. All these bills from members of the Economic Development Group are aimed at improving the economic situation in our country. These are bills: 1274, 1293, 1490, 1495, 1556, 1604, 1618, 1130, 2003. Request to add these bills to the ruling that we're going to vote on. Or is the second proposal, which we are also supported by us, announced by Yulia Timoshenko's Block: to vote in favour of all the bills that are registered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u22	Okay. Please, Leonid Kozachenko, on a daily basis. And we're going to vote, I'm going to make a proposal, it's going to get everyone ready. Please. Leonid Kozachenko, I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u23	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, our faction requests the inclusion of draft Law No. 2003 on VAT compensation for agricultural exports. On this point, we have 11 profile associations asking for a review of this issue, because the loss is going to be about 20 billion dollars over a year for farmers. And please include Project 1833 on printing, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look. I'm going to make an offer that'll get everyone ready. All that is currently registered in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations is included in the agenda. Is there no objection? None. All that is currently registered at this stage. Please, the People's Deputy of Agaphonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u25	Vladimir Borisovich, please include the daily draft of the 1805 Military Police Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u26	And he looked at it, it was automatically turned on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u27	He was looking at the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear friends, please prepare for the vote. Bills that are currently registered in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'd like to vote in general. Please vote. All that's registered under the Rules at the moment. Just like everyone told the national MPs. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:58:56]] For 271 Decision taken. All the bills currently registered under the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules are considered to be included as the result of our vote. Thank you, Your Honor. We turn to agenda item 1776, introduced by the President of Ukraine, on parliamentary and judicial integrity. An extremely important decision that requires detailed consideration and attention from each national MP. For this decision, the proper procedure is defined by law and according to this procedure I invite the rapporteur, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kuba Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! There is a special procedure for this bill, but I would like to ask everyone to be as concise as possible, because we need not talk about this bill, and we need to approve it and send it to the Constitutional Court so that it can return to the House as soon as possible and vote in 300 votes. So please have your attention. Stepan Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u29	Dear Ukrainian people! Deputies! The President of Ukraine is consistent in his actions and the Bill of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine on the Inviolability of People's Deputies and Judges, dated 16.01.2015, number 1776, is now being sent to the Hall. Deputies are an issue that has always been relevant when elections are held to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are the promises that have become or are not one of the basics that we go to write the laws of the Supreme Council, not to be afraid of being held accountable under the current legislation. The President of Ukraine clearly explained his actions and the procedure for the solution, I think today is the decision of more than 300 votes. Today the coincidence, today there is no election, today the indicator of society is the system of monitoring the fulfillment of the promises made by the national deputies in this room. Today, I thank a coalition that clearly understands its responsibility and understands the need for the adoption of the law today in the session room. The adoption of the proposed draft Law of Change will ensure democratic values, ensure the implementation of a clear programme and a coalition agreement, ensure the democratization of the development of the society of our country of Ukraine. The aim is to improve the position and Constitution on the inviolability of national deputies and judges and to bring Ukraine’s basic law. When we say that the process is very indicative, situational, it's not true. This is a definite position, both for the President and for the coalitions and for the people's deputies who are going to go to this lactus paper today -- indicativeness, acceptance of this position. Today will be the principle that it is the limitation of parliamentary, judicial integrity that is the responsibility of Maidan, the responsibility of the promises that many people expect today in our society. When we talk about the amendment of the 126th article of the Constitution of Ukraine that a judge cannot be without the consent of the Supreme Council of Justice, rather than the political body of the Supreme Council being detained, there is a lot of speculation going on. You don't have to do that. Because the changes and articles 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the position that judicial accountability of judges is carried out on a general basis. At the same time, the coalition council discussed the matter, and it is proposed to strengthen the institution of functional immunity for judges who cannot be held legally responsible for acts, acts in connection with the exercise of justice, except in cases of judicial decision-making, a violation of the oath of a judge, and a disciplinary offence. Many speculations are now being made in the media that today's justice, the Justice Council, is not complete. Yes, but there are two solutions. First. What if, on the day following the publication of this law, the Supreme Council of Justice is full on the day leading up to the date of the promulgation of this law? And the second option. That is, 10 days later, from the date of the formation of the official composition of the High Council of Justice, if, on the day preceding the day of publication of this law, the Supreme Council of Justice is not fully competent. At the same time, I would like to say that, together with this law being sent to the Constitutional Court, there will be the conclusion of the Venice Commission and an appropriate procedure. The procedure is specific, it is clear in time and it will be executed. I call upon every colleague who sits in this room. We promised, we promised ourselves, we promised to be accountable to the promises made at Maidan. Glory to Ukraine! Thank the Ukrainian people! Praise be to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u30	Thank you. Please report. Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Let me remind you that the question that is being considered today has already been the subject of the session hall. And on January 16, the session hall was determined to include this bill in the agenda of the last day’s session. We've just decided on the order of the day of this session, where one of the points was to include this bill in the agenda of this session already. What am I talking about? Because, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, in order for us to move forward in the process of change to the Constitution, we are obliged first to include the bill submitted by the President in the agenda that we have just done. Further, in accordance with article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we must decide to refer this bill to the Constitutional Court for its consideration so that it can conclude, in accordance with the Constitution, that it is in conformity with articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council and bearing in mind that today, in the order of the day, this bill is one of the first, yesterday, at its meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, it addressed the question of sending to the Constitutional Court the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges for registration number 1776 of 16 January 2015, the subject of the right of legislative initiative in this case is the President of Ukraine. Having considered at its meeting the draft bill submitted by the President of Ukraine and defined by him as an urgent bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges (registration number 176) since 16 January 2015. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice established this. The purpose of the bill is to improve the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and courts, and to bring the relevant provisions of Ukraine's basic law into line with international standards. In order to achieve this goal, the bill proposes to exclude part one, part three, of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides guarantees of parliamentary integrity. Furthermore, the amendments to article 126 of the Ukrainian Constitution suggest that a judge cannot be detained without the consent of the High Council of Justice and that a precautionary measure in the form of custody may not be applied to him prior to the sentencing of the court. In doing so, such immunity will not be extended to arrests by a judge or directly after he commits a serious or particularly serious crime against the life and health of a person. Furthermore, article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine is supplemented by the provision that judicial responsibility is exercised on a general basis. At the same time, it is proposed that the institution of functional immunity be established for judges who cannot be brought to legal responsibility for acts committed in connection with the exercise of justice, except in cases where the judges are found to be guilty of an unfair judicial decision, as well as a violation of the judge’s oath or the commission of a disciplinary offence. According to article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the existence of a finding by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with part one of the first article 148 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to reach a conclusion by the Constitutional Court on the appropriateness of the bill amending the Constitution to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine is adopted in the form of a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice's presentation, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the President, as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of national deputies and judges (registration number 176) from 16 January 2015, to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for its conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u32	Thank you, Your Honor. Please speak from the factions. Please register with factions and groups on this subject. The issue of the removal of parliamentary and judicial integrity. Please, Radical Party, National Deputy Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u33	The honourable Ukrainian community, colleagues, the truth will now make a decisive decision in Parliament. At the same time that MPs are demonstrating consent to build up their immunity, it is necessary to approach me in more detail than I do the removal of judicial immunity. We all know that the Supreme Council of Justice hasn't been working for a year and when it's working. Therefore, after the expertise of the Constitutional Court, as I am, it is necessary to pay attention to this. And in general, according to our faction, judges need absolutely no immunity, no protection, should be equal to all citizens. Intactness is a survival of the old regime that must be destroyed. And at the same time, with reference to the Constitutional Court, which today, I am convinced, will be voted on, it is necessary to initiate the establishment of the Provisional Monitoring Commission for the preparation of the President's Impeachment Act. This is the same requirement of Maidan as the removal of parliamentary and judicial immunity. At the moment, when a country is in a state of war, we have no right to hide behind the inviolability of us, nor the selling judges, nor the President, nor anyone else. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will clearly vote in favour of bringing it to the Constitutional Court, support the removal of the inviolability of national MPs, judges and the adoption of the President's Impeachment Act. This is the position of our faction and we call upon all our colleagues to support us, as the Ukrainian people are now observing this overwhelming vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u34	Please, National Deputy Rabinovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I want to say that today is a truly historic day, and we will finally vote in favour, and I don't know what will make the people better to live, to be rich, and everything will be great. I want you to know, I'm asking that it be recorded in the record, and I want you to remove the MP's immunity from me now, on this rostrum. I don't need your parliamentary integrity, it's all circus and comedy, instead of doing real things. You're trying to shift arrows into one thing today, yes, the country should be equal, but let's just count this equality from the other. If you wanted to remove the parliamentary integrity, you would have done so at the first session, because today this is the second session, which means that no one will record anything before 2016, which means you don't want to film it. I want to tell you, if anyone were to put one person in the room, a piece of paper about a violation of the law, this room would be voting for the removal of the MP's integrity. I appeal to my colleagues on the opposition bloc, please vote in favour of withdrawing the parliamentary integrity only to prevent the "political prostitutes" from trolling you. And I want to tell you this: Listen to what, please. If today's 23 bracelets are worth, why did we do the day before yesterday to remove the fences? Yes, it's important, people, if we don't deal with the economic situation, but if we tell the day about the MP's inviolability, the people won't live better. I came back from Harkov yesterday, people don't get paid for their pensions, that's what we have to do. Let's declare mobilization here in the Hall, not leaving the Hall, not solving economic issues, issues of what's going on. The National Bank has refinanced banks to pay people money. People can't get money now, they can get money. Therefore, I am in favour of removing the parliamentary integrity along with the President and the judiciary, but this must be done when we raise the question of how people should live better. I want to thank Mr. Groysman. Thank you for my statement, dear Ukrainian voters. There's no more vodka in the MP's buffet. Now do a mental exam, and it'll be great at all. [[Applause]] Mr. Groissman, speaking on the ICTV channel, said that parliamentary integrity is the rudimentary of the Soviet system. I want to upset you, it's the rudimentary of the European system, so, dear voters, I'm taking off my parliamentary integrity. Please vote no, but let's do it for the people, because you don't get tired of 2016, people will drop you, you have to do the economy, and then it will be: Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u36	Friends! Before I give the floor to the representative of Peter Poroshenko, I would like to inform the people's deputies about the procedure. In fact, this session will now put to the vote the issue of removing parliamentary immunity. Then, by procedure, after returning from the Constitutional Court, and that, I think, there's a month, we're not voting for approval, that's when the session starts. This means that in September months, in the first numbers, as soon as we open the session, we will vote in general and it will come into force immediately after signing. All right, so no 2016, no 2015, no September month, that's how late the MPs are supposed to be. This takes 300 votes. I think that all factions consider this a matter of honour, not just now, but after returning from the Constitutional Court, to vote by 300 votes. Since it is impossible to undo the intactness, but it is necessary to change the Constitution of Ukraine, there is a very simple answer. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, for more than 15 years now, the issue of parliamentary immunity is one of the most popular before the elections. And a lot of political forces are even building their own campaign on the fact that we're going to take down the parliamentary immunity, and then, usually, the left side of the hall never votes for it. I want to remind the left-hand side of the hall that the parliamentary immunity that we felt we had a year ago did not in any way help the then opposition that we represented, nor in the Midan, where Berkut had robbed the MPs, nor in other situations, and so on. And that's why parliamentary immunity is not democracy, it's actually a rudimentary totalitarian regime. It's quite obvious that today, and it's a good thing that the session room is going back to this topic not before the elections, but only when we started our work should there be 300 votes for removing the MP's immunity. Democracy is that deputies should be responsible and their political activities cannot be subject to political pressure. And in a democratic country it will be, it is a norm. With regard to judicial integrity, this is a key issue, including the fight against corruption. You know, on February 18-20, all of us will again honor the Celestial 100, but there is still no punishment for any of the judges who made these anti-national decisions: neither the Obolonian Court nor the Pecher Court, who long ago closed up in general as a symbol of corruption and lack of justice in Ukraine; neither in Chercas, nor in Zaporozhye, when judges packed them with dozens, hundreds of innocent citizens, planted them. And now these judges, you know, feel great. So it's very obvious that we have to take this off. And, more importantly, immediately after the removal of the parliamentary immunity that is to take place in full scope, and the judiciary, in 2015, the U.K. Attorney General's Office has to break cases against those national deputies who, under a mandate, are now in this session room and continue to fund separatists, and continue to actually kick ass to do and earn their money, and continue to hide their anti-national activities on the theft of the country. We don't know that half the million people here have made a fortune stealing the budget? But it is not possible to reach them because of the existence of parliamentary immunity. So you don't need to take anything off the stand here, but you need to create a transparency mechanism and create opportunities for law enforcement agencies to deal with criminals who are still in this room and who are covered in mandates and shortcuts. It is a matter of honor for every colleague today. Our faction certainly supports what we have been going with for many years to the electorate because we have nothing to hide from. And even in the most difficult times, the opposition, you know, didn't help anyone. Things were discovered, but if a man is honest and has no skeletons in his closet, he has nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u39	Colleagues, there is no political power in this room that has not promised to undo parliamentary integrity. That is why all political forces must vote for it. Self-help will vote. But then we have to understand that, as we said in a Soviet movie, "We're all sitting down," if we don't start creating real law enforcement and justice. From the moment we take off the touch, and that's the right thing to do, we have to start with ourselves. We're going to be just as illegal in front of the ordering investigators, in front of the ordering prosecutors, in front of the ordering judges who are now citizens. And we need to lead their desire to create a normal prosecutor's office, create a normal investigation, create a normal court. So let's vote yes today, and tomorrow we'll start an open competition with the new Attorney General. And let's not stop at cleaning up the D.A.'s system. [[Applause]] Until we clean it up. The end point of our journey should be the regrouping of all the judges. Then, with a clean conscience without being touched, we will work peacefully in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u40	Victor Bondar, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u41	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Economic Development Group will clearly vote in favour of the adoption of this bill in the first reading. We believe that this question is long overdue. And today it's become more informational than reality for those people who were interested in it. Everyone who needed to be left untouched, long ago in Moscow, and today they're not interested in discussing this issue in this room, it's more political today than the real things people are looking for. We understand that it should not only be cancelled for the deputies, but we insist that it should be abolished for the President, the Attorney General, the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, the judges, and before the law, all equal. At the same time, we point out that, in fact, the country today is in a state where economic activity and economic reforms are needed as quickly as possible. Ask business today, entrepreneurs, go to any village, businesses: is something going to change from the fact that there's going to be an end to the integrity of the economy, in terms of people's earnings, in terms of social security? Nothing changes. It is therefore urgent, however, that the coalition, together with all the MPs who join the powerful economic reforms, should urgently, very quickly start reforms to tax, budgetary, militia, the legal system as a whole, judicial reform, in order for society to experience real change and for the country not to sink into economic turmoil and sink into economic crisis. So we realize that what's happening today is a more informative wave. Let's finish these games, because every month we're going to have a new theme -- so we're going to talk about pristineness, then we're going to be in the next election, then we're going to have the local election, which is going to be in the format. And when are we going to do the economy? When will real reforms in the field begin? When will the real work begin? That's why we insist: now, without further discussion, we vote, we take the questions off, and we go back to dealing with normal economic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u42	Please, Igor Jeremeyev, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u43	Dear Ukrainian people! Mr. Head! People's deputies! The question of the removal of parliamentary immunity has been in this room for the last 15 years. Many political forces, both on the right and on the left, went to the polls with what they said: We will remove the parliamentary integrity. The events that took place last year are events where Ukraine and the entire Ukrainian people have determined that they want to become a European country. It's not European because we want to have other possibilities, because we want to live and think differently. We have to give our children a future. This future can be only in a country where there is no corruption, no abuse of its own people, and no destruction of its own identity. When we talk about taking off the touch, we need to speak as the common people say: Fish rots from the head. And so one stage in the fight against corruption is that the President, the judges, the national MPs give up the inviolability and become equal among the equal. Our "will of the people" faction will vote in favour of today's bill. We believe that this issue must be addressed in a responsible manner. We need to adopt this bill so that it doesn't become an element of political pressure on those who disagree with the position of the government or the president. But we agree that the time is right, and we will support it today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u44	Please, People's Front, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u45	You know, the Ukrainian people must be a unique people. He's been in the revolution three times. It's not an economic problem at all. He wanted justice, he didn't want to see the oligarchs in power, he didn't want to see the president who built the Interigria, and you were there with him, and now you're talking about what's important and not important. The Ukrainian people long for this justice. And when people choose us with you, the national MPs, and then we're stuck with people like this, with this inviolability, there's no confidence. The most important thing that people should have is the trust of their constituents. Judge, this has to be the place. The courts must become a place where people will find this justice. Instead, however, the Ukrainian courts have become a concentration of corruption and the very injustice itself when only the one with the money can protect himself. And there's no justice here. This is therefore a matter of honor for the Ukrainian Parliament today. It is a matter of honour to vote this decision, more than that, to vote it by 300 votes. I hope those who are here now are very active, everyone will vote because this is a test for us with you. But the test is going to be whether we can take the next steps. Because obviously my right colleagues, that's just the first step. The next step is to have a real reform of the judicial system when we have new judges. This must be a reform of the entire legal system. People won't believe us with you until they see that high-level corruption is behind bars. Only when this becomes a norm can we say that European standards are. And we have to ask the Attorney General these questions right now. We look forward to tomorrow's speech by the Attorney General to ask him: Why do we not see specific cases in the year after Maidan, and why do we not see those shootings behind bars? Justice begins with laws, but it ends with practice. The People's Front is definitely in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u46	Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, you are well aware that the example of my entire life shows that there is no protection against political repression if they want to be carried out. And also an example of a system that has worked for many years in Ukraine tells us that not inviolability protected all true corruption but the system itself. And that's why today we've come up with the issue of removing the inviolability, understanding that this will only work in a complex with fundamental deep reform of the judicial system and the entire system of Ukrainian power. Only then can we talk about justice. But at the same time, the removal of the inviolability that must be done today and brought to a logical conclusion needs not only a legal step, it needs to be done as a moral step, because when every Ukrainian today suffers without, from the terror of judges, from the terror of the law-enforcement system, when he is not protected by anything, we need, from a moral point of view, like deputies, to stand at the same level with the Ukrainians and feel that we live in the same system that they live in. You know, the best doctors in the world, when they want to adopt a new vaccine, they try new drugs on themselves. So let's start putting ourselves to the test of what's working in the country right now. And that's why you have to take off the touch and make sure that between the first reading and the final shot, the bullet doesn't fly. And then we will be worthy of being plowed by people at least on this issue. But reforms must be made further in order for people to experience changes, not just symbols, which are now the removal of inviolability. And I also want to emphasize to you that the Fatherland Party and the Fatherland faction from the first day of their accession to Parliament have been trying to collect signatures under amendments to the Constitution on the removal of immunity from MPs, judges and all those who have it in full. Today we're taking away the entire touch of the MPs, we're starting to film, we're barely taking the judges off, and we're leaving everyone else, and I don't want to talk during the war about this, this job. We need to record the inviolability completely, in whole and in one piece. The Motherland Party is supporting this. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, from factions, the group has finished speaking. We're going to have 15 minutes with you for the national MPs. Please, I'm asking the national deputies to sign up and let's get to the vote. Please sign up from the deputies. Please, National Deputy Pober Igor Mikolaiovich, Party of Peter Prashenko. National MP Pober. Please have a three - minute schedule, but if you spend less time, more colleagues will be able to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take a look at how we're going to keep moving. The real situation looks like, well, it's not for the press, so no one can see us or hear us, and I'll say that this bill is called wrong. It's a bill on the elimination of parliamentary immunity and the strengthening of judicial integrity. You have to say what it's called. So, as a person who, with his colleagues, Andrew Cosemiakin, Sergey Mishchenk, Sergey Kaplinin, came to second reading and convinced me that this was to be done. Of course, I'll vote with two hands. But we need to understand that if we're sending this bill to strengthen judicial integrity and eliminate the MP, and the Constitutional Court is making no changes or doubts about any point and a coma, we can't change this bill if we vote in the next session and vote in general. Therefore, my position is that if we are honest before each other, we should say that the brothers of the judges should likewise go to the fulfillment of their obligations to the Ukrainian people. And then we're making changes and we're saying that we're taking the High Council of Justice because it's even better than the Supreme Court, because we or the Supreme Council, because we're in the Supreme Council, we'd sooner take away the judicial immunity that the Supreme Council of Justice is going to do. So I think with this warning we need to understand that if we want to fulfill our obligations to humans, there should be no rule of judicial integrity in the law. It's about the President. There is a discussion on the Law on impeachment. I take that position, and maybe it's a big surprise to someone that we've passed the impeachment law, because the Rules that we've adopted as a law are working, and there's chapter 30, which consists of 20 articles, where the President's impeachment procedure is subsequently written. What do we lack today to begin the procedure? There is a law missing. See article 171 clearly states how we should act. "The question of the removal of the President of Ukraine from office in accordance with articles 85, 111 of the Constitution is discussed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine."The Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, the Special Temporary Commission of Inquiry and the Temporary Special Commissions and this Rules." What does that mean? If, in the position of the President, we are also honest before each other, we must, Vladimir Borisovich, immediately introduce the Special Commissions Act and begin to consider this law. So when we execute today, and we mean that we're starting to take the immunity out of the MPs, and we're going to adjust and remove the integrity of the judges and institutionally ensure the possibility of impeachment, then we're doing it right, then we're voting and then we're doing it right. That's the ideology I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u50	People's Deputy Krivoshea, People's Front, Gennady Grigorovich. Leonid Yemen, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, there is a time to make promises, but there is a time to fulfill them. And today, we have to take the first procedural position to change the Constitution and remove the inviolability of national deputies and judges. And I'm sorry, all the talk about what we have to do in a package with the impeachment law, the end of a state of war -- it's all from the evil one, all to make the process more loving and not to lead it to a logical conclusion. Therefore, today we vote unanimously and unanimously. And let's do another legal trailer, this is for the Opposition Block, which says they're willing to take off their integrity in another order, on their own. If you open the Constitution, it says that the Supreme Council gives permission to remove inviolability and reveal criminal conduct. I understand from the Opposition Block that a statement has just been made about an appearance with a duty, according to a confession in a criminal offence. That's why, of course, we take it because it's true, because you're responsible for the war, you're responsible for the crimes of Yanukovic, you're responsible for the situation in the country. So, of course, the inviolability of you should be removed and your fiction removed, and populism would not stop this process, and all the national MPs would become equal before the law, and the criminals would be in prison. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u52	People's Deputy Shufrich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues, yet another attempt to rob us of the same inviolability. You know, it was different in this room, hopefully we'll end it eventually, but let's still be honest with people, if we're not in front of each other. What was an interesting suggestion that Vadim Rabinovich should make, break a criminal case against himself, take away the inviolability, and then pass judgment on himself? It's a strange jurisdiction, though, after what happened in this country, it's no surprise. Tell me, please, is there a Parliamentary Guard here, and has there ever been a case where at least once the Supreme Council of Ukraine has denied the Attorney General the removal of the inviolability? I'm sorry, there was one time. I'm looking for Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and I'd like us to not have him today, unfortunately, I'd like the Supreme Council to applaud him today. Because in 2003-2004, he really took the principle position and said, while I am the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this submission on the elimination of intactivity will never be considered. And our colleague stayed with you in the hall, worked and was, as she is now, a brilliant then oppositionist, and now a brilliant coalition representative. And then the Supreme Council once failed to hand over the national deputy of Ukraine and did not take away the inviolability. I think today we have to be honest and open to ourselves, namely, where is the so-called declaration and the real intentions of the President of Ukraine to amend the 105th article of the Constitution, namely, to remove the inviolability of the President of Ukraine? They say we need to improve the process of impeachment. The present judge of the Constitutional Court, General Nimchenko Vasil Ivanovich, can clearly tell you that the only procedure that is clearly regulated by the Constitution is the impeachment procedure. There's no law required. If there is a desire to remove the President, this procedure is constitutionally secured today. We can improve it, but the standards of the Constitution that are now in force are sufficient. So let's put it this way, 105 Constitutions -- we're taking down the President's integrity, removing the immunity from the MPs, and removing the immunity from the judges. This will be honest with our citizens of Ukraine, otherwise it will all be another lie. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u54	National Deputy Solovay Yuri Igorevich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u55	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today, the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is one of the most important issues, especially the issues that are being addressed by the new composition of the Ukrainian Parliament, because Ukrainian people are willing to accept the fact that someone lives better, someone lives worse, someone lives richer, someone lives poorer, but Ukrainian people will never accept the fact that the person who stole the bill is in prison and the person who steals billions is covered in parliamentary immunity and walks in freedom that the person who has offended the person is being criminally guided and the person who takes advantage of it is being free. And that is why today’s decision by the Supreme Council to remove parliamentary immunity is absolutely necessary and necessary in time. But at the same time, I want to stop at the fact that, in addition to removing parliamentary immunity, perhaps the more important thing is to remove judicial immunity. Because it was judicial integrity that led to the absence of a legal state in Ukraine. Today, the one who takes more money to court is right, not the one who is actually right under the law. And that's why the removal of judicial immunity is a key and fundamental issue. And until we have a right to work in our country, until the judge in our country realizes that he will be responsible for his actions, we have no future. And the last. We need to understand that there should be no castes of touchable and untouchable in our country. And that's why the law on the President's impeachment should be fundamental and fundamental to the removal of parliamentary, judicial integrity. And that's why the MP's strike group of the Peter Prashenka bloc is in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity, removing the judicial integrity and the Ukrainian law on the President's impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u56	Please, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the principle of the position of the Petra Prashenko bloc, is one and very clear: all must be equal before the law. That is why we support the adoption of the Order on the Cancellation of Inviolability and Deputies and the Inviolability of Judges. But I would like to point out that in our country we understand that journalists and those involved in political activities are at risk. And we need to immediately understand that somehow we need to put out safety nets for more serious protection of journalists' rights, that is, journalists' activities, and also those who are involved in political activities. This is a very serious question, especially with regard to majors, who will be many in all factions. And I would like to emphasize that we support, ask the entire room unanimously by a constitutional majority to vote on this decision. But without delay, start developing mechanisms that will help us to strengthen the protection of freedom of speech, strengthen the protection of journalistic activities in the country, and strengthen the protection of those involved in political activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u58	Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u59	Your Majesty, ladies and gentlemen. The vulgar feudal norm of parliamentary immunity, which is now in Parliament, must be abolished. And today, together with you, the Self-Help Union will vote for this. But it is very important that instead of the vulgar feudal parliamentary immunity, there is no feudal Inquisition that has existed in the country in one way or another for 24 years. To do this, we must not invent bicycles, we must learn in civilized societies and communities. We therefore propose that, as a faction of the Self-Help Union, the Supreme Council should entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the draft Act amending the Constitution to the European Commission for Democracy by virtue of the right of the Venice Commission to reach a conclusion on compliance with European standards. Besides, we're sending her to the Constitutional Court today. This is an important guarantee of the quality of our legislation, which will protect Ukraine from "civilized (in paws) Inquisition". And one more thing. Indeed, what now prevents law enforcement authorities from passing bills in the Hall to deprive the MPs of the inviolability of those who have blamed the Ukrainian society? Nothing gets in the way. The hall is ready to rid them of this feudal inviolability today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u60	Please, National Deputy Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! You know, 24 years later, the Ukrainian community was probably waiting for this decision. He himself experienced when the national MPs allowed themselves to have so much against you as simply against an official, just as against a civil servant, to speak and slander you. I think it's really going to end today. I think it's going to be a real victory for us with you and proof that we know how to live up to the promises we make to our constituents. I will be grateful if we all vote today and really show that we are a parliament of a new graduation and a parliament of a new quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u62	Thank you. And from the non-fractional, please, Andrew Illenko. The moment and time are running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u63	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Today, we must fulfill the commitments we made to the Ukrainian people in Maidan, all of which were spoken of before the elections, before all the elections. If anyone today thinks it's a populist decision, it should have been said before the elections, not now, because it's hypocrisy. Our 7 free votes are definitely in favour. And today we are taking care of the Supreme Council with this very requirement that this law be sent to the Constitutional Court. Although we understand that it is also not ideal, there is still a need to spell out more clearly the removal of inviolability from judges, of course from the President, but today it must be directed, this is an absolutely necessary step. And we urge all factions, all deputies to 100 percent vote in favour of the bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! We have completed the discussion procedure under the Rules. I would ask all the national MPs to take their jobs, invite their colleagues to make a statement in favour of this bill, so that everyone who wants to vote in favour of this bill can do so. Please, dear fellows! Please take your seats. I'd like to point out that it's actually a very important decision and it tells us that MPs or judges are not going to be protected, and it's the right thing to do. Since this decision will enter into force in September 2015, 300 votes will be cast in this room. This means that until now you and I have a perfectly normal opportunity to create a quality system of justice. A system that will restore trust and society, including you and me. It was so simple that in life we had a chance to make decisions today, to take responsibility for them. But we're exactly the same citizens as everyone else. Therefore, we must contribute to making this system open, understood, accessible, and respectful, and trustworthy. I think it's a question that we can solve with you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. You are being examined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies and judges, registration number 1776-r1. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1776/P1) on the submission to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (with regard to the inviolability of the people's deputies of Ukraine and judges) – on the basis and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:54:38]] For 365 [[Applause]] Thank you, distinguished national deputies, for the position that has been officially established and will be made public by every national MP. Consider the following question of the order of the day, honourable colleagues, no less important, the granting of arrests or arrests (taking into custody) of individual judges. There is also an appropriate procedure. That is why I invite the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u65	Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Court of Ukraine had received the submission, at the time, of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Oleg Nenetzik, in which the issue of the need to obtain the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to arrest and arrest the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Kyiv Kyrieeva Radion Volodymirovic. The report noted that Judge Kiriev was reported to be suspected of committing a crime under article 374 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, a violation of the right to defence, namely: failure of a judge to defend the defendant in a timely manner. As well as in the commission of a crime envisaged in part two of article 375 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, namely, the establishment of an unfair judicial decision by a judge in the form of a precautionary measure of detention, which has caused serious consequences and personal interests. Given that Judge Kiriev is hiding from the investigation, the place where he was found by operational-search measures failed to establish, the Attorney General asked for his support. As Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I support this submission and have brought it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u66	Thank you. If you have any questions. None. Dear colleagues, there is also a report by the committee’s head. Do we immediately put and vote and vote? To the vote. So, dear friends, there is a proposal to put the vote to the vote. Thank you for your information to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on consent. I'm betting on the vote of 17, number 1753, on the granting of custody and arrest (in custody) to the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Kyiv Kyrieyeva. Please vote on the basis and in general. 1753, concerning the granting of arrest and arrest (in custody) to the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Kyiv Kyrieeva R.V. Please vote. [[11:58:29]] For 297 I would ask the national deputies to be more careful. Next, please, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u67	The Supreme Court of Ukraine received a submission from the Attorney General of Ukraine, Jaremis, stating that the judges of the Central District Court of Mikolayeva had been informed of the suspicion of organization and assistance in committing deliberate murder. Since crime is a severe sanction for an article in the commission of a crime that is suspected of being committed by Judge Rudjak Andriy Aleksandrovitch, it is envisaged that he will be deprived of his liberty for a term of up to 15 years. And as Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I supported this submission and brought it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u68	Is there a need to discuss? Vote. Your consideration is given to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the granting of arrest and arrest of the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Bolotin M.V., Rudjak, I apologize. 1755. It's just that the reporter doesn't report in an orderly fashion. 1755 is put to the vote by Decree No. 1755 concerning the granting of arrest and arrest (in custody) to the judge of the Central District Court of Mikolayeva Rudjak A.O. I'll put it to a vote on the basis and in general, please vote, 1755. [[12:00:20]] For 314 In accordance with procedure 314, decisions have been made. Under the procedure, each decision is voted on separately, and this is very important. Please, 1754.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u69	Honourable National Deputies, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has received a submission from the Central Court of the Central District Court of Mikolayeva reporting a criminal case in the conduct of this court accusing the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa of committing the crime envisaged in part two of article 368 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine of being bribed. Since the judge is hiding from the court, his whereabouts are unknown. It was not possible to establish it by means of operational-search measures within Ukraine. And in order to declare an international search and apply the force of Interpol's Bureau, it is necessary to obtain an agreement on his arrest and arrest. I support, as Head of the Supreme Court, this submission, and have brought it to Parliament's consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u70	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please, Your Honor, the Order (register No. 1754) is brought to your attention. Concerning the granting of arrest and arrest (under guard) to the judge of the Malinov District Court of Odessa Bolotina M.V. Please vote. Malinovo District Court [[12:01:59]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you, Mr. Head, for the introduction. Dear fellow national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to our regulations, I have to announce a 30-minute recess, and we will continue our work for 0 12 hours 30 minutes. Thank you. There are still a number of important decisions to be made by all the people’s deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats with the faction leaders, the faction leaders, invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, we continue our meeting. Dear colleagues, we must continue our work. There is now an extremely important bill on regional policy, regional development. Dear fellow national MPs! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'd like your attention, and I'd like you to call again to the Ukrainian National Deputies Hall. For your second reading, draft Law No. 0908: Draft Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Sergey Vlasenko. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that two very important bills will now be considered: regional policy in Ukraine and voluntary unification of local communities. These are two bills that are important in terms of strengthening local self-government in Ukraine. So I'd like to ask for your attention and your maximum concentration. Secretariat, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u72	Honorary colleagues, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government at its meeting on January 15, 2015, discussed the proposed bill on the principles of State Regional Policy, Registration No. 0908, and examined the observations and suggestions made by the legislative initiatives. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted on July 3, 2014. And as a result of the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the seventh call was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its further consideration in accordance with article 106 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules for the Preparation of Second Reading. In preparation for the committee’s second reading, the concept established by the Cabinet of Ministers was preserved. At the same time, the position of the individual articles of the bill was further developed. Thus, 52 proposals were made in the second reading of the bill from six Ukrainian national deputies, 46 of which are proposed to be considered, and 6 are proposed in part. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be recommended in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law on Principles of State Regional Policy, registration number 0908. As a result of the second reading, accept it in a second reading and in general. The final draft of the bill has been prepared with observations, unfortunately, by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. Dear colleagues, if this bill is adopted as a whole, when it is being prepared for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask that the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, carry out its technical and editorial work. I would also like to add that during the committee’s consideration, one member of the committee called this law the philosophical law of the State Regional Policy. I want to agree with that definition. This law regulates the fundamental principles of national regional policy, and from this I ask you to support it in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is this bill that is called upon to ensure the development of regional strategies through funding, including the European Union. So it's extremely important and it's going to create mechanisms that are completely open, public about the implementation of regional strategies in each region of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the table is given to you. Let us follow the amendments, as the committee head said, most of whom are listed and do not need a vote. After the repairs. In fact, all the adjustments are taken into account, colleagues, so there is no need. All the amendments in the table will be added. There is another amendment made by the committee. I'm quoting her now. Gave to the People’s Deputy, Matthew. I'm quoting her now. With regard to the 22 articles, the following edition reads: “Funding at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund, article 22, paragraph 3, to be edited: State support for regional development at the expense of the State budget, such as the State Regional Development Fund, is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Budget Code”. This will mean fully in line with the legislation that has been adopted. I emphasize that this is the amendment of Anatolia Matviennek. I don't think there's any objection here, there's a precise explanation for the performance of the functions and the Budget Code. Articles of the Budget Code. Sergey Volodymyrovich, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u74	The only thing I can say is that the committee has not considered this amendment, I cannot express the position of the committee on this subject, but I can say that unfortunately, there is some issue in the implementation of the State Budget legislation. Since the State Budget Act somewhat contradicts certain fundamental positions of local self - government. Decentralization of local self-government. But it's for the judgment of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u75	Thank you. What is more, this is about the implementation of the Ukrainian Budget Code. So, Your Honor, please prepare yourself now. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. It's a very important law. And please support him. For your consideration, the Ukrainian Law in the second reading, the Ukrainian Act on. draft Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Regional Policy, Registration No. 0908, second reading and generally, with Anatolia Matvienka's right, which I have announced as a transcript and with the possibility to enforce technical and legal remedies. editorial changes. Please vote in general, second reading. Please support in general, in the second reading. [[12:50:25]] For 254 Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] It's a very important law, I'm underlining it. He's still here. The past Parliament has not been able to accept it and that is why the regional budgets have lost money today. This will now be corrected in connection with the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question, dear colleagues. Registration number. No less important bill, registration number 0915, the draft Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. I would like to point out immediately to all the national deputies and to all those who see and hear us today. It's about creating a completely voluntary mechanism that will allow communities to become stronger, strictly voluntary, there are no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no. I invite you to report to the head of the committee, Sergio Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 12 January 2015, reviewed the observations and proposals made by the subjects of the right of legislative initiative under the draft Law on Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (Registration No. 0915), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted on 3 July 2014, on the basis of the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Call and made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call for Further Review, pursuant to article 106 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, under the procedure for preparing for second reading. During the drafting of the bill for the second reading by the committee, the concept of voluntary unification of territorial communities and the key positions adopted in the first reading was preserved. At the same time, a large number of articles of the bill have been thoroughly revised. A second reading of the bill from nine Ukrainian national deputies included 82 suggestions, 52 of which are proposed to take into account, 8 in part, 10 in editorial terms, and 12 in rejection. As a result of a comprehensive discussion by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, a draft Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (Registration No. 0915) was adopted in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a second reading and in general. The final draft of the bill is being drafted, unfortunately again, with comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. Once again, I appeal to you, Your Honor, as at the time of the adoption of the previous law, in the case of the adoption of the bill as a whole, when it is being prepared for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, I ask the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to carry out its technical legal and editorial work. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during the consideration of this bill, the committee defended the principle of volunteering to unite the territorial communities. It was a key prism, through which we considered virtually all the amendments. And that's why some of the amendments were rejected, and they were not accepted by the committee as such, that in some way they would move on to the principle of voluntary community reunification. As a committee, we are absolutely clear about the fact that unity must take place, and the unification of the territorial communities must take place on a voluntary basis. This was the key position of the committee, and I call your attention once again, and I ask you to support this bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u77	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. It's even in the title of the bill that this is about creating a completely voluntary mechanism that will allow the territorial communities to become stronger and stronger. Please, let's go after the repairs. Yes, all the amendments taken into account to Amendment 6, National MP Novak. Is there a need to confirm it? It's rejected. None. Number 7. None. Next. The next one's taken into account. Amendment 11. None. Don't insist. Counted. The next one's taken into account. Amendment number 18. Declined. The author does not insist. Next. Number 20. Declined. The author does not insist. The following are all included. Corrections. Amendment number 36. The author does not insist. Amendment number 41. Don't insist. Please. Amendment 51. It does not insist, since much has already been taken into account in the work. Amendment 57. The author does not insist. Amendment number 69. There's a letter from national deputy Kulichenko. Please, National Deputy Kulichenko, word for amendment number 69.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. The Ukrainian City Association considered proposals for the deletion of article 12 and insisted that it remain in its original form.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u79	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. We talked about it and held a meeting on this subject. I have to put her on the stand right now, but we don't support her. And that's going to mean that it's being kept, and it's being resonated between all sides. So by procedure, I'm voting on an amendment of 69. For confirmation of 69 amendments. [[12:57:06]] For-55 Thank you. Unconfirmed, that is, it is rejected. The next 70 amendments, the author does not insist. Next up, 71st doesn't insist either. 72th, neither does it. All other amendments are included. There is another agreed amendment. I'd like to give the floor to Ivan Kirilenko. Ivan Grigorovitch, please, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, we thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, for having responded with understanding to the position of the "Fatherland" faction when we consider this very resonant bill in the past. Thus, the law compares with the old version that he was sent to read again, which has been improved today by the efforts of the committee, public organizations, and directly interested authorities of local self - government. Above all, the ideologies of volunteering in this law are well established. A key factor in the voluntary decision of the entire community, as set out in article 7, which provides for compulsory public discussion and, above all, for the citizens of the community, whose will is taken into account in the final decision. In this way and in this way, the "Fatherland" faction supports this bill as a whole. I don't insist on my amendment, you can put it on confirmation and take it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u81	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you. Then maybe I'll read it, this amendment 7 on public discussion, and article 7. Preparation of the draft unification agreement, article 7. Paragraph 2 is inserted in the next line. "The village, village, city heads provide for 60 days of compulsory public discussion, public hearings, public hearings (public hearings), civil assembly and other forms of public consultation. Prepared jointly by the working group of the draft unification agreement, which resulted in rural, rural, urban and urban councils asking for the approval of its project. ” There is a full record of volunteerism, public opinion, and the procedure for discussion as defined by the community. So, honourable people's deputies, I ask everyone to concentrate, an extremely important law and ask for your support. I put to the vote, taking into account the technical legal rights, the bill (registration number 0915) in the second reading and in general, with the amendment that I have just announced. And once again, it's a totally voluntary union, there's no forced stuff there. Dear colleagues, in second reading and in general, please vote and please support this important bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the second reading, in general, with the amendment that I announced under the transcript. [[13:00:26]] For 265 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you all. Thank you to all the MPs for supporting this bill, it's really important. And you will see that he is: (a) voluntary, he is. We will be able to share with you, including the Majorities, a history of the success of bringing together strong and weak territorial communities, where they can become truly strong. And this means that today small villages in unification, without losing the status of the village, will be able to receive 60 percent of the income tax from the citizens. They can fully develop this law to manage land, they can without, absolutely, depending on the area and the area to approve their own budgets, get full financial and, I would say, the independence of providing services to the inhabitants of the territorial communities. This is extremely important, so thank you again for understanding and we will continue to work together to improve legislation on reforms of local self-government, particularly on the decentralization of power that we need to lay down in the matter of constitutional reform. Thank you all for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Bill, second reading (registration number 1762). The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Strengthening the Responsibility of Military Servants, Allowing Commanders Additional Rights and Responsibilities During a Special Period. It's also a very important bill. I invite you to speak to the head of the profile committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished representatives, your consideration is suggested in the second reading of the draft Law No. 1762 on the strengthening of the responsibilities of military personnel, the granting of additional rights to commanders, and the imposition of duties during a special period. The committee considered the comparative table twice before the bill, the first time since the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second time yesterday, in connection with the arrival of an additional proposal from the national deputy of Ukraine, Jephimow, and the conclusion of the judicial administration. The bill received 20 proposals from the people's deputies, the committee decided to take 15 into account, 3 to reject, and on two proposals of the People's MP, the committee of the Ephesians was not determined. In addition, during yesterday’s committee meeting, Ukraine’s national deputy, Bogholec, made the following proposal, namely, article 172-20 of the Code of Administrative Offences, a new edition. I'm not going to read this new edition, I'm just going to read the changes. In article 172-20 of the Code of Administrative Offences, in sanctioning part one of the first words "from one to five untaxed minimum incomes of citizens, replace by saying: 1 to 2 minimum wage. Then complete the new part of the second such content, that is, again during the year of the violation foretold in part one of this article, namely, the intoxication of alcoholic beverages by military personnel, for whom a person has already been subjected to administrative convocation, entails the imposition of a fine of between 2 and 3 minimum wages or arrests with imprisonment on hauptwah for up to 15 days. In relation to this part, the second part is considered to be part three. In addition, the sanctions of part three are proposed in the following wording: it entails imposing a fine of between 2 and 3 minimum wages or arrests on hauptvah for up to 15 days and is added to part 4 of such content: once again during the year of the infringement envisaged in part three of this article, for which a person has already been subjected to administrative withdrawal, the penalty of 3 to 4 minimum wages or arrests with a term of up to 20 days on hauptva. The committee suggests that we decide on the proposal made by Mrs. Mantis in the session hall, since the deadline for making proposals to the committee ended on 29.01. In this regard, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like you to give the floor to our colleague, Olga the Mantis, to express and justify your proposal when discussing the table for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u83	I think we can get to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u84	And for that matter. I apologize, in view of the above, please support the committee's decision to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u85	I suggest you do it this way. We're going to go over the table now, and then I'm going to give the floor to the People's Deputy. Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u86	Okay. Okay. Anyway, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, please follow the second reading procedure. The table is given to you comparatively. I'm only going to call those amendments that were rejected by the committee. I'd like to have your attention, dear colleagues. Repeal number five, National Deputy Sotnik. Is there a need for confirmation? None, does not insist on the author. Thank you. Next, the seventh amendment. The author does not insist. Amendment number 10. Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we are introducing new articles into the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Some of these include sanctions in the form of arrest and detention on hauptwah. This is actually a restriction on the personal freedom of citizens. It is clear that such a sanction is probably necessary on a case-by-case basis, but the Ukrainian Procurator's Act is valid, and that an editorial that will be valid in April 2015 clearly stipulates that the supervision of compliance with laws in the application of measures of a compulsory nature related to the restriction of personal freedom is required by prosecutors to supervise the application of such laws. Therefore, I insist on the prosecutor’s mandatory role when we consider the implementation of these sanctions under these articles on administrative offences that we impose. Therefore, please support the amendment and make appropriate changes to article 250 of the Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for the mandatory participation of the prosecutor in matters under these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u89	Thank you. The author of the amendment, National MP Vinnik, has just raised the issue of confirmation by voting on the amendment. That's why I'm voting on Amendment 10. You have heard the author's arguments. Please be sure about the vote, 10 amendments. This is the 10th amendment, for confirmation. [[13:07:56]] For-63 Not accepted. Please continue. All the amendments are still in place. All right, good fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u90	No, no, no, Vladimir Borisovich, please, we have two amendments to the people's representative of Jephimov. We didn't make up our minds yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u91	The repair number?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u92	This is Amendment 2, look. The committee wasn't defined because, well, first of all, the deadline was up, and second of all, we didn't make it. Let the hall be defined. This is amendment number two and amendment number.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u93	Wasn't the committee defined? I'm just not marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u94	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u95	Amendment number two, People's Deputy of the Ephesians. Please give the floor to the national deputy of Ephesus. Attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u96	Respectable colleagues. Suggested in article 172(11) of the Code of Administrative Violations, part two of the following wording: "the activities foreseen in part 1 of this article are repeated over the course of the year." An argument before that. If left to the author’s proposed editorial, the same actions will be punished by this article and by article 407 of the Criminal Code. Article 6 of the Armed Forces Disciplinary Statute, in addition to the changes introduced by the bill, complements two other parts of the following content: “the commander is obliged to take steps to put an end to a subordinate act of administrative or criminal offence, in the case of a subordinate to an administrative offence, the commander of the military unit is obliged to take one day, from the time of the commission of such an offence, in the event that it is impossible to draw up a protocol in connection with the conduct of hostilities within three days, to draw up a protocol on such an offence, and within a two-day period from the time of assembly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u97	Let me finish because that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u98	To court. An argument, not to punish the guilty, but to warn the perpetrators of an offence, is therefore desirable to provide for an appropriate standard. By the second paragraph. This bill amends the Criminal Code, which stipulates that commanders of the military forces make up protocols for administrative offences under Chapter 13b, but the relevant powers are not reflected in the profile law. Therefore, in order to avoid ambiguity, I propose that appropriate powers be clarified in the disciplinary statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u99	Thank you. The position of the committee is not defined, as I understand it. Dear colleagues, you've heard the revisions, it's hard to rate them by voice, but I have to put them to a vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u100	I want to say that even if this proposal is taken into account, it's a legal technique, it doesn't apply to the content either. So please, either count it or not. Let the hall be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can support a fellow national MP if there's no objection to the committee and this has technical legal implications. Please, the first amendment of number 2 that is defined in the table is comparable. Please state your support for Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Efimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u102	Vote. For, for, for, for, [[13:11:31]] For 171
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u103	Too bad. Next is the 17th Amendment of the People’s Deputy. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, under the insistence of national MPs who have not been able to identify themselves, I ask you to decide whether to return to consideration of this amendment. Be sure to return to the consideration of Amendment 2 according to. [[13:12:14]] For the 250. Decision taken. Please specify for support number 2, amendment number 2. Amendment number 2. The one we just got back to with you. [[13:12:36]] For 252 11 revisions included in part. The 11th amendment is part of the committee in the table. Please, National Deputy Vinnik, 11th Amendment, which is part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I understand that we underestimated the role of the prosecutor's office when the will is limited when we didn't vote on the 10th amendment, let's say. But if we want this law to work effectively, what is it about? There are separate crimes that. When they are particularly difficult and are criminally liable, and when these crimes are not such, they provide for responsibility under the Code of Administrative Offences. So this amendment gives the prosecutor the right to impose the right. to deal with administrative offences and impose appropriate charges. If we don't, this law won't actually work. And once again, I'd like to make 10 adjustments. I don't think there's been a very thoughtful vote. Why do we always criticize the prosecution and not allow them to work? In fact, they will be able to limit the will of a person and not even the prosecutor will know anything about it, although this goes against the current valid legislation on the prosecution and with what we adopted, which will become effective in April 2015. Dear Chairman, I ask you to re-vote the 10th amendment and decide on the 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, given the proposal of the National MP, I will now carefully put to the vote to return to the 10th. If you come back, we'll take another look. Please return to the 10th amendment that we are. Which is in the table. On the way back to the 10th Amendment. My colleague insists, let's support it. [[13:14:46]] For 219 We're not back. Please. Colleagues, come on. Look, I can do it again, but let's do it in such a way that we're very careful about our responsibility to make decisions about the bills. Once again, I am voting on the return to consideration of the 10 amendments. Please decide how to vote. Please. Back to the 10th amendment. [[13:15:29]] For 219 Thank you, Your Honor. Hall's been determined. Please make another 11 amendments. The National MP Vinnik said that it was partially counted. I am voting for the full support of this amendment. Please specify the full version of the amendment. Eleven. Full. [[13:16:08]] For 233 Counted. Thank you. I would ask the national deputies to be more careful. Dear colleagues, we've been amended and I give the word Olga the Mantis, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, please support the introduction of rights to this law, which has to do with increasing responsibility for the use of alcohol on an advanced basis. The point is that today we have both combat and sanitary losses associated with the use of alcohol. As a result, the effects of combat mental injury resulting in disability have deteriorated. Thus, today, the law provides for penalties that can be used by a truck of a hundred dollars. With appropriate regulations, we increase the ability of military commanders to take responsibility and to receive fines that may be imposed on those who abuse alcohol. Therefore, I ask you to support the initiative of the Health Committee and my personal, including the Ministry of Defence, which are the appropriate letters to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u107	Thank you. This amendment is contained in a report by the committee head. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. I'd like everyone to concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u108	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u109	Final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u110	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u111	The committee heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u112	Dear colleague Olga Bogolitz, the only thing I want to say is that the flaw in the supply of only one is that the fine is calculated in minimum wages, and in the current Criminal Code and in the Code of Administrative Violations in the Untaxed Minimum Income of Citizens, do you understand? So if it's under the stenogram you have to transfer the minimum wage, Vladimir Borisovich, minimum wage, to an untaxed minimum, for a stenogram, and then you can support,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u113	You've heard the position of committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u114	It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u115	I'm asking everyone to take their jobs as national deputies. Now we're going to be looking at questions in the second reading, as a whole, with the amendments that were announced by the committee's head, as well as the tables given to you, and we're going to find confirmation of the hall (registration number 1762) of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the responsibilities of military personnel, granting the commanders additional rights and responsibilities during a special period, in the second reading as a whole, I'm going to ask you to vote. With the amendments announced and supported by the hall, please vote, Your Honor. Vote. [[13:19:08]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, here's a proposal, a proposal for a discussion of question 1317 in the evening session. This is from the faction leaders and I have to put it to a 16-hour vote, 1317, for consultation. Please, 1317 for the evening session, transfer to the evening session. Transfer to the evening session, please vote. [[13:19:57]] For 228 Thank you. Transferred. Dear colleagues, there's the Ukrainian Probation Act, let's consult. And we have the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. There's Law 1550, and let's do it this way. We will now consider 1550 an extremely important bill, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on reforming internal affairs. Given that there is the First Deputy Minister of Interior, Eka Zguladze, let's welcome her. It's probably our first time in this rostrum. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. There is only one proposal before we begin to consider the matter. Consider it in the first reading by a reduced procedure. You have been asked to consider the bill in 1550. Please vote. With regard to the reduced procedure. [[13:21:20]] For 229 Decisions, honourable colleagues, have been taken with regard to the reduced procedure of consideration. I'd like everyone to concentrate, and I'd like to invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Eku Zguladze. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u116	Hello! Thank you so much for such a warm reception, I'm honored. The distinguished people's deputies, the title of this bill that we are now introducing, are very loud and it is certainly not enough for you, and you are right. It is not a reform project of the Ministry of the Interior, it is only those activities that we can do now without additional budget costs and so on. The main objective of this bill is to eliminate duplication where we can, right now, and to eliminate the bureaucratic apparatus. This applies specifically to the following areas. We want to abandon a function that should not be in the Ministry of the Interior, which is a veterinary police. And I think everyone will agree, that's understandable. The second component is the reorganization of the Office for Combating Organized Crime, the so-called UPRB. Of course, the function does not disappear; it will be joined by other departments within the Ministry of the Interior. All operational developments and the analytical base that exists and is significant are maintained. The same approach to the abolition of the transport police unit. Which, frankly, isn't loaded at all, just two cases a year. When the same staff member is on average in 57 cases per year. So we want to bring these units together and unload real staff. Thank you. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u117	Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u118	Perhaps one of the most important components of this law is the elimination of special units of various units, which are too many in different police departments and on the basis of the so-called Sokola, one of the largest such units, to create a universal police specialnaz, similar to the U.S. and Canadian S.W.A.T. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u119	I think it's very rational ideas that are set up, and it's the first reading. Between the first and the second readings, national MPs will be able to work out all the things that will improve the effectiveness of this law. Thank you, Madam Minister. For the report. First Deputy Minister, correct. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u120	Dear Chief, honourable colleagues, I, like all present, listened attentively to Mrs. Zguladze, in which she gave strong arguments as to the need for the adoption of this law (registration number 1550), which she could agree with. At the same time, I would like to stress that this bill is not simple. Undoubtedly, the positive aspects of the project are what it proposes and optimizes the structures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and by combining existing special units and establishing a single unit based on them, and by removing duplication of functions in the activities of individual militias, and by eliminating veterinary police, etc. At the same time, it contains discussion positions, particularly with regard to the removal of internal organs of authority in the area of the fight against organized crime, provided for by the law of Ukraine. I'm not going to go into more detail about some of the discussions that took place on the committee, I'm going to say one thing, we've sat twice, we've considered this bill for the first time, the 24th time, and we've made our decision to send for work. Then we received a letter from the Home Secretary, from the members of the committee, and after yesterday's speech on our committee, Mrs. Zguladze, who was motivated, clearly, to show what needs to be done with the Ukrainian militia to make her really patriotic and decent. We made a decision today in the first reading so that the Supreme Council could take the lead. And I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal to be reduced, Vladimir Borisovich, to a second reading period of up to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, by procedure: 2 for, 2 for against, please sign in. Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u122	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, respected colleagues, evidently long awaited the necessary reforms that we have heard so much about. Indeed, there is a high expectation that the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be the first real reform in the country that our Ukraine so needs. But what I'd like to say is that when we're going to reform the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the main idea that needs to be put in place to stop this ministry from being understood by citizens exclusively as the Ministry of the Police. It must really be the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is dealing with a whole set of problems, as are ordinary citizens of Ukraine today. The Fatherland faction supports the voting of this bill on the basis of the first reading, with a reduction in the procedure for its consideration in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u123	Thank you for preparing him for his second reading. Please. I heard that offer. Please, Bereza Yuri Mikolaiovich, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u124	I ask you to pass the word to Gerashchenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u125	Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are launching a reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. According to this law, we permanently delete those units that did not work for the people of Ukraine but contained many people who only consumed wages. She had already told the Deputy Minister that the veterinary police were doing two criminal cases a year, with 400 people being paid by taxpayers from all over Ukraine. Another important thing about money is that there's going to be a unified special unit. There will be no more cheetahs, Titans and other beasts. It will be the only special unit that will perform functions, if necessary, to protect public order, to assist in these matters, and also to carry out post-armed combat functions, especially armed criminals. What I'm saying is that this law is a tombstone over all the talk that we have left in the police is issues like "Berkut." This law will ensure that all special forces will be re-assemblyed, re-acquired, and those who do not meet the real criteria will go away from the militia forever. That is why this law is needed by our country. Please support and vote on the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u128	Our political power fully supports the need to reform the Ministry of Internal Affairs and will likewise vote in favour of this bill and in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing it for second reading. Mrs. Zguladze presented reforms in the Ministry, and also this week at the Council of Reforms under the chairmanship of the President and the Prime Minister, and said there a very important thing that today society needs more confidence than ever, a return of trust in one or more institutions of power, especially the law enforcement agencies. Of course, today the Ukrainian budget needs to primarily cut any expenditure on the maintenance of the authorities, and reducing unnecessary or duplicating structures of the ministry is great. Similarly, it is vital that all the necessary structures that overlap their organs today be brought together. We support this reform and we expect the Ministry of Internal Affairs to continue reforms so that 2015 will really have something to report at the end of the year on law enforcement reform, primarily the militia, the road service and other departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u130	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u131	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u132	Mr. Speaker, the first request is to protect the minister's fine deputy from the attention of our Cossacks, because she cannot participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u133	Cossacks, prominent national MPs, who are in the government's bed. I can't see. With great respect to the MP and the Deputy Minister's First Lady, do not distract the First Deputy Minister from the process of discussing an important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u134	That's a huge problem. Now everyone's asking to meet you. Let's focus on the discussion. First, Self-Help. Eka, we're here, we're here. As you know, Self-Help is your partner in actual militia reform. We are very glad that you consider this to be just the first step. And you understand that there is a need for full reform of internal affairs. 2 requests for this first step. Of course, AIDS is a terrible structure that has cursed itself with corruption. But there are honest people and very useful information, especially about leaders of the current DNR and LNR, because they have been their customers for many years. Second. In setting up a unit of one police officer, make a genuine review of the role of current people in special forces during Maidan. Because too many, as we are told, turnarounds remain in these structures, including in decision-making positions. Take it under control. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna, then Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u136	Mrs. Eka, I'm very glad that you really admitted that this is not reform, but the first steps that are closer to it. But I want us all to understand that this bill does not contain the corruption that is there. But in no way does it match the ideas of reform. We hope that this will continue to be shown better in real reforms. Unfortunately, too much money has been taken on roads. Just as they took the money for the assignment, they continue to drive the money into the upper organs. And you seem to know the interesting thing is, if God hadn't given the site, unfortunately, the law enforcement agencies would have gone against the people again, as an example of how they're acting "breaky" right now on the roadblocks on entering and leaving Kharkiv, even though they're not in the Ato zone, but they're acting arrogantly. And so, I would very much ask that we finally start changing not the masks on our faces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Ten seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u138	I very much ask and ask you to start really reforming the very essence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and approaching the ideas of the playground and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u139	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u140	The bill is a loan of trust to Mrs. Catherine, in fact, and yesterday he spoke about it on the committee. What's the problem? Nobody from the Ministry wants to give us the concept of reforming the entire IMF right now, and we have agreed that the following laws will come after this concept. That's the first one. And the second. The IMF is absolutely not concerned with the question of illustration. I told Mrs. Catherine yesterday, deputy ministers, department heads, all the pillars of the criminal regime, all the pillars of the bloody regime, the people who are directly responsible for the events on the ground, are now deputy ministers. If that doesn't change, no reform, no laws, nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, from outsiders, Yuri Lewchenko. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u142	Leuchenko, Freedom. Of course, we must eliminate completely corrupt and unnecessary militias of various kinds. We have too many different functions, absolutely unnecessary, and we will vote in favour of this bill. It's just that once again I'd like to pay attention to some kind of preparation, in principle, of the right things. You know, you're in such a hurry, or you're in such a hurry, or for something else, that you can't just read the bill. Look, you're shortening the U.I.P.V. units, the transport police -- that's very correct. But the bill does not propose appropriate changes to article 2 of the Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the reduction of the administrative apparatus of decommissioned units. So you're leaving the steering gear? Secondly, you complete the list of militia units with special assignment units, but it is not clear from the text what is the specificity of these special assignment units. So you're essentially allowing IMF officials, in manual mode, to assign these units to a special assignment and appoint or release the respective executives. This is by no means entirely in the bill. So you have to write these things in detail to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, between the first and the second readings, we will consult, but the law is necessary, necessary. We've heard an absolute majority of the support of this law. And as the reporter said, it's not a complex reform, it's the first step towards reform. So I would ask all the deputies to come into the hall right now and we're on the first reading and we're going to vote on this bill. So I'd like to go into the hall and take my seats, distinguished national deputies. Your consideration is being made. The bill, registration number 1550, is submitted to the vote, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on reforming internal affairs, with the proposal to adopt it as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support and vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. On the ground! Please vote on the basis. [[13:37:56]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you, Minister. First Deputy Minister. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal, and it was in the presentation on the preparation of the bill under a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote and please support the preparation for the second reading under the short procedure of the bill. [[13:38:33]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a bill of probation that goes on second reading, which we have just considered before him, the Law of Law Enforcement. Please read second. The reporter is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u144	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Your opinion is proposed for consideration of the draft Probation Act (No. 0921). I'm going to decipher this name to make it clear to everyone. It's a system of supervision and socio-educational measures that are applied by decision of the court and by law to persons who are brought to criminal responsibility and to provide the court with information that characterizes a person who is attracted to criminal responsibility. On October 10, 2013, the bill was adopted in the first reading. And so he was buried by the vocation. And it's very good that we're back to this bill again. And according to a letter from Prime Minister Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich to the Head of the Supreme Council, the bill is recognized as requiring an accelerated preparation by the Committee and a preliminary review by the Supreme Council. At its meeting on December 26, 2014, the Committee considered a comparative table for the second reading of the Probation Act. From the legal entities of the legislative initiative, namely, the national deputies of Ukraine: Mikoli Petrovich Palamarczuk, Vladimir Misik, and me personally received 106 suggestions and amendments. They're all accounted for. So the law is actually ready for the Supreme Council to look at it and support it. The bill proposes to introduce probation in Ukraine as a system of supervisory and social-educational measures that are applied by decision of the court and in accordance with the law to the convicted execution of certain types of criminal penalties unrelated to the deprivation of liberty and to provide the court with information that characterises the accused. To this end, the bill proposes to define the purpose, the task, the basis, the type of probation, the legal status of probationary personnel, the subject matter of probation, and so forth. In fact, it is proposed that a model of probation be introduced into the work of an existing criminal inspection service, which is proposed to be renamed a probationary body, given additional powers and additional responsibilities. This bill, if adopted, will take effect as a law from the day of its publication. However, it will take effect six months from the date of its entry into force. This is done in order for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine all necessary legislative changes to implement the probation system as a whole, including the financing of the probation authority. This bill is being drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee thus recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the second reading and generally both as a law and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. For information, I would like to say that the head of the Penitentiary Service, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, also supports and requests that this bill become law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. You just heard from the head of the committee that was doing a thorough work on preparing for the second reading, taking into account all the amendments and, I think we can bet. Not counted? Please, Olena Sotnik, Self Help. Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u146	From Self-Help. My colleagues, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u147	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u148	No, I'm not about the amendments, we want to make a statement, express our position on the law, we have the right to do so. See, the point is that the Probation Act is quite specific. What is probation? In fact, this is an alternative form of punishment. What we have in this law. We have in this law some kind of socio-educational measures to carry out certain types of criminal punishment. So the law does not correspond to the concept of criminal justice reform that exists today. It is not in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. And it doesn't bring system-wide changes to this system. In fact, we're experimenting with another whole concept in this case. That is why we believe that this bill needs to be finalized, made necessary changes to KPC, the Police Act, and only then brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the second reading of the bill does not take place. For this, a table of rights is being prepared, and only right-wing authors have the opportunity to comment on the purpose of confirming or rejecting this amendment. So I'd like to take this into account when I consider drafts for second reading, and I'd like to work better on committees. Please take the committee's position and let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u150	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I want to say with all due respect to Mrs. Helen, we talked to her just two hours ago, had a little discussion. And I think that every national MP is the subject of a legislative initiative. He has the right to cook, to bring even those enlightened lawyers and counselors who are working with your faction today, and I support it. What's more, I think that these proposals that have been made and supported by the judiciary today are also entitled to life, and this law has the right to life. He's been waiting eight years. That authority, which was, was constantly in favour of this law, either did not vote or did on the committee so that we could not pass it, to vote as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, are prepared, generalized, including generalized tables and adjustments that have just been presented to you in a comparative table. So I ask all the deputies to prepare themselves, because this is the second reading and the whole vote of the bill, taking into account the rights approved by the committee. So I would ask everyone to take up their jobs and determine how to vote. For your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, a second reading of the bill (registration number 0921) is the draft of the Probation Act, the second reading. It's made without notice. And the committee's proposal, according to the committee's decision, is to adopt the second reading and the whole bill. I am voting on the adoption of this bill in second reading and in general (registration number 0921). Please make up your mind about the vote, the honourable national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u152	Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u153	The committee's asking for support. The committee's asking for support. [[13:46:23]] For 208
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u154	Dear fellow national MPs. Didn't work? I'm asking you to pay more attention, please. I am voting on the return to the draft bill. As for the return, dear colleagues, please vote carefully. It's about coming back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u155	Let's vote yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u156	It's about coming back. [[13:47:02]] For 231 We're back, 231. I am voting on second reading and, as a whole, on the proposal of the committee, Bill No. 0921 of the draft Probation Act on second reading and in general. Please vote, fellow nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u157	Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u158	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u159	Thank you. [[13:47:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. I would like to ask the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, I ask you, together with the National Deputy Sotnik, look at the bill, if you need to make changes, we need to work on it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now consider no less important bills, no less important bills, in the first reading. Bill 1313 is being submitted for your consideration. Attention, Your Honor, please. The draft Law on the Introduction of New Investment Opportunities, Guaranteeing the Rights and Legal Interests of Entrepreneurship Subjects for Large-Scale Energy Modernization This is about energy-generating as one of the factors behind our national security and independence. He's been developing Halasyuk Victor plus the authors he's going to announce today, and I'd also like to point out that he's been working with an expert environment. Please. But I suggest that we consider it as a reduced procedure in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, a motion is put to the vote to consider the bill in short motion. [[13:49:15.]] For 196 Decision taken. Please, the chairman of the committee, Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask for your attention for five minutes because this bill, without exaggeration, is one of the most important economic bills in the state throughout the year. Dear colleagues, Bill 1313, developed and submitted by deputies from all factions and coalitions, envisions the introduction in Ukraine of a European mechanism for investing in energy-generating, replacing obsolete equipment, inefficient, budgetary institutions, as is done in Europe, without any amount of budget investment. It guarantees the state of the economy from the very beginning of those energy service contracts. I would like to point out that, rather than negotiating at what price we buy energy and where we buy energy, it would be most wise to reduce the energy consumption of the country, especially in the budget sector, where we can influence it with you, so that Ukraine is not in bondage to both Russian gas and foreign credits to pay for it. This unique bill introduces open market relations in order to engage private investment in the replacement of boilers, in exchange for windows, in the energy supply of budgetary institutions. It will allow Ukraine to significantly reduce consumption, including Russian gas, and become truly energy independent. I would like to point out that this bill has as a positive conclusion a professional committee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship. I would like to point out that he has a positive conclusion from the Anti-Corruption Committee as well as from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. To my address, I know that I also came to the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u161	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u162	A number of letters of support came from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which under this bill guarantees that Ukraine will be granted a credit line from USAD, from the Ukrainian Association for Innovation. The bill is supported by a rehabilitation package of reforms. So, my dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again that there is a consolidated position that the drafters of the bill are members of all factions -- Oleg Lásko, Viktor Halasyuk, Kiral, Oleg., Mr. Dombrowski, Lensky, Krivenko, Efimov, Rosenblat, Krivoschia, Dubininin, Tomenko, Babak and Ryabchin. So, dear colleagues, this is a historic vote that will actually show who is responsible for Ukraine's economic and energy independence and who will look for some formal reasons to play the aggressor, to play the raw oligarchs and who is to ensure that Ukraine does not have real energy dependency. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to identify yourself and not confuse the button when voting. Please support the bill in the first reading on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for broad discussion? Yes, a minute is requested by the co-author of Dombrowski, I think from the team of co-authors. Please, Alexander Georgievich. And we're going to the vote -- an extremely important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs! If we essentially concentrate the main priorities for Ukraine today, we can concentrate on three concepts: security, reform, and this is the fight against corruption. And when we talk about security, we cannot today fail to understand the risks of energy security for our country. We have coal problems today, we have electricity problems, we have gas problems, we have supply problems, but, from my own point of view, if you put in a rating, the energy efficiency issue of Ukraine's economy is number one today for our country. Why? Because the energy efficiency of the Ukrainian economy is three times higher and worse than the average of the world, I emphasize, on average, the world. If we compare with the countries of the European Union, the energy efficiency of our economy is 10 times the rate of progress in a competitive European economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u165	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u166	30 seconds. If we took Poland from its GDP and its energy efficiency parameters, we would have to have either three times more GDP today, or three times less energy consumption. Then 20 billion meters of cubic gas produced by Ukraine would be enough for Ukraine’s energy independence. I want to encourage everyone to support this bill in the first reading. It is not ideal, but the entire team of national deputies who worked agreed on positions and adjustments for second reading. I also point out that this bill is consistent with the Coalition Agreement, the Government's Programme of Action and the President's 2020 Programme of Action. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u167	Please give me a minute, Headmaster, national MP. And then Matthew. And we vote. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u168	Dear MPs, Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This is, indeed, the right bill, and our interfractional "Freedom" union will support it, because the energy independence of our state at this time is very important. Society, we need to consider in this, in general, in Parliament a number of bills on energy efficiency and energy security in our country. And the main thing is that we're now in addition to our gas dependence, unfortunately, Ukraine is going through more energy dependence on the Russian Federation. We started buying them electricity, coal. Instead, if we think about finding alternatives in other countries, we're getting back into dependence on the Russian Federation. So our initiatives, which are registered in Parliament by our union, I also propose to put in order of the day and to support us to finally break our dependence on the Russian Federation and develop our energy market, which is the main thing in modernizing our nation's energy conservation. That's why we call on all MPs to support this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u169	Anatoly Matvienko. And I'm going to ask you to invite the people's deputies to the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u170	Anatoly Matvienko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, our discussion was about what we're saying about energy conservation. And all the talk is that let's do energy conservation. That's all right! But, Vladimir Borisovich, yesterday this discussion was on the budget committee. The cooperation of investors and authorities is a mutual responsibility and opportunity, and under control. We guarantee the investor, but we balance the budget. I'd like you to tell me what the opinion of the Ministry of Finance is about how we can manage all these things that are in the law. We create cacophony, we break the logic of the budget. And that's why we have to answer these questions, not just acknowledgment for energy conservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u171	Thank you. I can tell you that I had something to do with the drafting of these bills and those bills that go into the development of this, 1313, bill. Actually, here's the discussion next. If we do not use energy conservation measures, including energy service contracts, we will never have enough gas, resources, resources, nothing to pay for it. This mechanism allows us, while we finance energy conservation, to reduce the amount of energy consumption that we buy from the outside. So it's fundamentally important for us to reduce consumption, including gas, and this can only happen if each consumer is saved by reducing consumption, not by declining quality, but by decreasing consumption. So it's all a general decision. Between the first and the second readings, it's possible to work out all that's going to be debated, but the fact that this bill has to be adopted and that it's necessary and expected for investment, including, is an obvious fact. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies to take their seats right now and to support this bill in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. An extremely important bill. You have before you the bill registration number 1313, the draft law on the introduction of new investment opportunities, the guarantee of the rights and legitimate interests of business subjects for extensive energy-generating, registration number 1313, on the first reading. Please support the bill. Please support this bill. On the basis of the first reading. [[13:59:47]] For 232 Decision taken. I think it should be prepared for a second reading by a reduced procedure, your honorary colleagues. If you don't mind. Please vote in favour of preparing this bill for the second reading in a simplified procedure. Is it accepted? Please vote in favour of preparing for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote, please support. Short notice, colleagues. [[14:00:23]] For 205 The cards didn't work? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Okay. By the complete procedure of preparing for the second reading. I'd like the MPs to be more careful. Honorable Colleagues, Associated Bills Registration number. I'm going to use my right not to finish this note, but to continue this session for 15 minutes and to consider Law 1409, 1409-1, they're interconnected and they're going to develop these bills, and they're going to be prepared together. Please consider 1409, 1409-1, these are two bills. Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for the introduction of new investment opportunities, guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of business entities to carry out extensive energy-generating activities). So you can see that they are interconnected. And I invite the co-author of the Victor Krivenk bill, Self-Help. Next up is co-author, Ukrainian national deputy Dombrowski Alexander Georgievicz, Peter Poroshenko's Block. Oh, wait a minute. There is a fine proposal for a simplified procedure for considering this bill in the first reading. I would like to vote on the summary procedure in the first reading. [[2:02:04]] For-195 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u172	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! First of all, thank you for supporting Bill 1313 -- this is really a revolutionary step towards energy-generating, this is a consensus step, that is, everyone in this locust supports this bill -- the Association of Cities, the Association of Small Cities, the measures of cities support, the heads of district administration support. Law 1409 is actually a derivative bill. Yes, if possible, the Self-Help faction, Krivenko Victor. We're friendly with the People's Front, but... 1409 is a derivative of 1313, and it is primarily used to untie the local authorities. We're 11,000. Finally, these councils, which are directly selected by the communities of their villages, cities, areas, will be able to provide guarantees to an investor that, in part of the economy, exclusively in part of the economy, they will be able to pay the investor for the investment he has made in energy engineering projects. So any manipulation of what it would do to increase budget spending, which would lead to some hidden deficits -- that's not true, that's not true, and -- that's purely economic. Finally, this bill is similarly supported by the EBRD, supported by the USAD, supported by the Reanimation Package of Reforms. This bill is consensual because it has gathered all the authors. And I'm very grateful that this is finally the work that Vladimir Borisovich Groisman started, that it comes to a logical end. Yesterday the budget committee at its meeting supported this bill with the formulation that its final adoption would be after the adoption of 1313 as a whole. The proposals that come from the national MPs are accepted. And we invite you to collective work, co-authorship. And I ask everyone to support these bills, this is indeed the work of all government and all co-authors. The unique situation is when two groups of authors come together without bringing their different thoughts into the room, when there is an understanding of the National Energy Efficiency Agency, when there is a full consensus, so I ask you all to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u173	Thank you. National MP Dombrowski, please co-author.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I would also like to confirm, on my part, that in the process of discussing and drafting the 1409 and 1409-1 Bills, we have always had very serious discussions. But in spite of that, we succeeded in this discussion with an expert environment, along with representatives and government organizations, in building everything on the basis of the draft Law 1409. So I would like to ask the National MPs to vote, to support Bill 1409 in the first reading. And the second position that I would like to pay particular attention to. Yes, there are problems and differing perspectives on the problem of the use of the Budget Code and the draft Law 1409. But I am absolutely convinced that today, in the process of reforming the country's economy, we must look for such tools, including in the Budget Code, which would enable us to solve the problems that have accumulated over the decades in both the budget and not only in the budgetary sphere. So if we're voting, and I'd really like to vote in the first reading, in the second reading with the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Economics, we need to find tools to ensure that both 1313 and 1409 work effectively for the economy and to improve the efficiency of the budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik, please, one minute. Then Victor Halasyuk for a minute. I'd like the National Deputies to come into the hall so that we can immediately vote in the first reading and announce the closing of the morning session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's enough in Parliament to make a law with a good name and it can be adopted. The essence of the law is not in the name, but in what is laid down there. And you don't have to convince anyone here that you have to buy energy-efficient equipment, put it in. Discussions are now under way. No one is forbidding the purchase of this energy-efficient equipment right now. But this law, I'm not going to go to the previous law that you canceled state procurement on tenders. Because if you read carefully, there's a manual purchasing regime. What is involved in this law? It's about canceling the logic of the budget. The budget is an annual plan of income and expenditure. This law proposes to make budgetary commitments 15 years ahead of schedule. This is a nonsensence for the budget, which is the annual plan. If we accept this rule, we need two changes: first - or change the Constitution and then allow the budget to be adopted for 15 years, or secondly - to dissolve the parliament, because then we don't need to approve the law if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u177	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u178	The budget may be approved in advance for 15 years. From a budgetary point of view, what you want to vote on is absolute nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u179	Please, Victor Halasyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Pinzenik, dear Mr. Matvienko. We appreciate your expert opinion very much, but if you look at the essence of this bill, you'll see that it's not about removing any budget for its implementation. And the point is that when an investor makes a certain economy without any amount of budget investment, part of the economy goes to the investor to cover its expenses. And that goes on for a few years. Because if you don't, no investor will come and we'll have what we have is 23 years old, an energy dependency on another country. And because of some type of literature, there will be no real reform of the economy and industry. So, dear colleagues, please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u181	Thank you, look, your honors and the national MPs, let's make this a completely compromising option. We have this bill under consideration, which is important, in fact. In the first reading, between the first and the second readings, we're going to prepare it jointly with 1313, 1409, and so we're going to make agreed proposals based on the committee's consideration. Is there no objection? I'd like to ask then, I'm going to put Bill 1409 to the vote on the first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to concentrate and vote this as a basis for the first reading. For the second reading, we'll hold more consultations, we'll gather public councils, we'll discuss, we'll find an understanding on this. But please support and now vote in the first reading, not to lose the case on the halfway road. There may be different views, but we settle them. Please vote, please support the first reading of 1409. Please vote 1409 as the basis for the first reading. [[14:09:58]] For 211 [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't the card work? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again. Back to the 1409 draft. We can't just take it now and like that. Please vote for the return of 1409. Support, Your Honor, on your return. [[14:10:42]] For 214 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, me. We're not closing this question, we're going to start voting on it. Again? The voices are growing. Dear colleagues, at 2 p.m. we'll start the vote, I'll take the right, I'll take it back. So it's an evening meeting. Evening meeting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm calling the morning session closed. At 4 p.m., we'll start the evening session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-05-m0.u182	I'm asking the coalition factions at 2.30 p.m. to advise on the information security bill. I have a group of factions and coalition representatives in my office at 2.30 p.m. There will be important bills after lunch and please come to the meeting. Thank you.
