ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration, take up jobs to start our work. We're not registering yet, we're waiting. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. The deputies of the columns enter the hall. We're waiting. We wait and we invite you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the hall again. Deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, come in. Self-help is there. Who saw the Fatherland faction? Ready, Your Honor, for your registration? Please register. Dear fellow MPs, please register. Please register. [[10:06:23]] Thank you. There are 269 deputies in the hall. It's a success. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. According to the Rules, our first hour is "the hour of questions to the Government", and today we will raise questions about the implementation of the visa liberalisation plan, the voluntary unification of territorial communities, the provision of goods for military personnel and the criminogenic situation in Ukraine. Answering the written and oral questions from the deputy factions and groups today will be: Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development of Construction and HKG of Ukraine Hennaday Hennadiovich Zubko, please welcome. [[Applause]] Also, the minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine, Pavel Anatoliyovich Klimkin, welcomes him. [[Applause]] Minister of Defence of Ukraine Stepan Poltorak. Minister of Interior of Ukraine Arsen Borisovich Avakov [[Applause]] The Society, there is a proposal for reporters to have seven minutes and then 30 minutes of questions from the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And that's how we build our regulations. Is there no objection? If there is no objection, I invite Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u2	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask you immediately, perhaps by order, to add another three minutes, because the issue that we are about to consider is very important for the country today. The reform of decentralization is a key reform that opens the way not only to strengthen local self-government, but not only to join the European Union, to implement all the laws of Ukraine, but also to strengthen the influence of our citizens today, the influence of society, the influence of local self-government on decisions that are taken both in areas where our Ukrainians live and at the central level. I would just like to inform you, honourable Members, of the state of reform, where we are today, where we have accepted, what we need to do, and what is happening now in the regions, in the areas, in the areas. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in 22 years in Ukraine, there was a constant decision on who to hand over power: either from the President to the Parliament, or from the Parliament to the President. And for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the President of Ukraine. It has been decided that the maximum authority should be given to local self - government. This is a historic moment that we must all do together in order to transfer authority to places. This is very important, and I would like everyone today of the national MPs who is present in the hall, who works in major districts, who communicates with people who see how this reform can be done, to help and, most importantly, to take away politics from this issue. Why am I stressing so much? Because there are politicians today, there are political forces that want to represent decentralization in general as an administrative and territorial reform. Administrative-territorial reform is not at all about today. Today it's about simple things: there are powers that the community exercises, and we need to give the functions that it has made to affect the lives of people in Ukraine. In order to transfer these functions and powers, we need to form effective and economically capable communities that can not only take up resources as a budget, a resource as a land, but rather perform functions to provide our Ukrainians with quality education, quality health care, quality administrative services, and not only spend the resources they receive from the central budget, on their wages and on municipal services. And now this situation is more than 40 percent of the rural, rural councils that are in Ukraine. So I would like to say that we should unite together and make this key moment of opening up the authority of local self - government. Now the situation is for us to decide together on the law, on the principles of national regional policy, on the Law on voluntary union of communities, and on the legislative level, practically everything is closed. In order for this reform to work on the ground, the government has adopted an additional Cabinet of Ministers regulation on how to form capable communities. Once again, the question of voluntary unification is a priority; the issue of the economic efficiency of the formed community is a priority. And so today, it is those communities that will unite to show that they have a quality budget that they have received from the calculation that the Budget and Tax Codes have been changed; that can provide quality services, that they have the right to receive all authority at the level of the regional cities of Ukraine. These are the mandates that will allow them to have direct transfers with the central budget of Ukraine, as well as changes to the Law of the Budget Code on Inter-budget Relations. And so far, forward-looking plans are made in 12 areas. Yesterday, there were literally future plans in Kharkivsk, in the Poltavsk region. Now, during our meeting, there is a session of the Council of Montenegro. And I think Oleg Valeriyovich, the Czernigiv district council, Oleg Valeriyovich, the Czernigiv district council will make a positive decision to take this forward-looking plan. Once again, the forward-looking plan is a strategic development plan for the region. Today we need to understand that decentralization is just a way to open up to regional development. And it's the goal of decentralization and all other laws -- it's regional development, it's competition between regions, it's competition between areas, it's competition among investors, it's to attract investment, it's to create new jobs, it's to fill the budget, so that the quality of life of Ukrainians is raised in places. So now we're going through the adoption of forward-looking plans. It is practical to expect that future plans will be made by the end of this month. We signed a Memorandum with the Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe, along with USAID, funded the opening of reform offices in every area. These offices help to deal with local self - government, to make promising plans. And we are now on such a powerful resource in general, in order to wait for changes to the Constitution, which we expect to be introduced into Parliament in a very short time, and in which the authority of local self-government to perform its functions will be finally established, and the functions and powers they should be delegated on the principles of subsidiarity. This means that where a person lives, where a problem arises, there should be a decision on how to close the problem. So to this day, the territorial unification of communities is taking place in the size of the districts. We've got the areas and we've got them. Areas, as they were, remain. And the authority is the only one that is best allocated to the unification of the territorial communities, the other part of which the functions of the districts remain where cooperation is needed between the territorial communities and at the level of the area remains the functions that allow them to function and perform those powers that apply to the area. To date, I would like to point out that apart from the reform offices, apart from the government-authorized deputy of the government, the government, which is responsible for the formulation of forward-looking plans in every practical area, there are expert groups in each community.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u3	Please give us a chance. How many, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, minutes? A minute? Well, let's give the vice-premier five minutes, dear colleagues. Lady. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u4	And that's why there are now expert groups working in every area that have to work and, most importantly, show the development strategy of each region. To this end, you have created a regional development fund, supported by you in the 2015 State Budget, which is practically aimed at strengthening community unity. I'd like to pay attention now to all the national deputies working in the districts. In each area, there are district competition commissions that also work with national deputies, which together have to determine which specific projects need to be completed, completed and completed in 2015. It's also your opportunity, it's also your goal and your task to strengthen your community. The budget committee approves these funds directly following the decision of the District Competition Commission, and thus our territories will receive additional incentives to unite. A bill has now been drafted by the government, and I expect that next week we will submit it for discussion and approval by other ministries of the law on the transfer of land to the territorial communities." This means that a united community will have all the resources to make decisions, invest, engage people who can invest and create jobs. Budget, land, the State Regional Development Fund and direct investment to local self-government. I would like to point out that there are a lot of experts on these issues today, but the experts on these issues are confusing a little bit of politics, and they're asking us to use what is going to change the boundaries of the population, to change the local authorities, to be incomprehensible about where municipal property is being transferred. Once again, to this day, as Grandma has lived in her village, she will live there, but we want to see a powerful local self - government body that will make decisions, not in rural council territory, where there is virtually no authority to make decisions, where there is no capacity to store a resource sufficient to repair a roof in a hospital, school, or repair a road, but to create a powerful, effective, voluntary united community that can store resources and meet its obligations to its inhabitants, to its citizens, to our Ukrainians. So reform is very important, and I would like every senior deputy of ours to join in and report that without it, Ukraine will not be self-sufficient, independent and unitary. It's our job to carry out this reform together. Without this, Ukraine will never be competitive in the European Union in order to strengthen its influence as well. And today, Ukraine has a very powerful resource both in the agro-industrial complex and in infrastructure projects and in the investments that we all expect. I think today the minister of the agro-industry complex will report on the achievements of the export of grain crops. But that is what must happen to people today. And it can reach people only through local self - government, decision - making, and the programs that we have implemented together. I would like to refocus that the Ministry of Regional Development now has a department of regional development that will help each area, each region to create, compile, develop a development strategy for each region. So let's make a competition between the areas. The competition that is now in Austria, the competition that is now in Germany, the competition between those regions that have every advantage: who are in tourism, who are in industry, who are in the processing of agriculture. But it's the kind of piece that's going to let an investor get involved. As a result, the Department of Regional Development has begun to work, with the support of reform offices. The Council of Europe is working together, which signed an agreement yesterday to assist Ukraine with 55 million euros for the sector’s own development in Ukraine. This is the money that will go directly to the region to support reforms, to create quality administrative services. Therefore, our national MPs, our distinguished colleagues, and I address the ministers just as much as you do, because this reform is not just about local self-government. This reform must take place in parallel with both education and health care, and with those authorities that now directly influence the environment, earth, and resources. So I would like to unite everyone around decentralization and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u6	And we're going to remove politics from this issue in general, because this is our key reform. And this key reform paves the way for an independent, capable, economically efficient Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Foreign Minister Paul Anatolyevich Klimkin is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for being able to report on the state of implementation of the visa-free plan and what we are doing to achieve the visa-free regime. On May 8, the European Commission published the fifth report on Ukraine’s implementation of the visa-free liberalisation plan. I'm not going to clearly list all directions, but out of the 15 directions that were evaluated, 2 are considered to be complete, 8 are almost done, 4 in part, with a very good perspective on further progress and 1 direction as partially executed. I want to say that, first of all, moving forward from the EU has a profound impact on our progress towards and liberalisation and simplification of visa-free treatment with other countries, especially Canada, Australia and Japan. The other one. During the East Partnership summit in Riga, we were able to remove the key political obstacles that are linked to the impressions and receptions that exist in the European Union regarding the complexity of migration flows, including those related to the events in Donbassa and Russian aggression. But there are a number of clear criteria that we have to make. We have a clear agreement on the European Union's expert missions. Today is the next round of the video conference. And we have a clear agreement on December 15 as the final date when the European Union will provide a full and clear report made by Ukraine. Among the key issues that require our action together, I would like to define the following. First. Create a model for the initial identification of natural persons. We'll never get into a visa-free regime with the European Union if we have passports with Post-Radians attached to them, and that's what we have to do as soon as possible, even if it's a clear plan to move forward. The second is the creation of an integrated border management system. We have to have someone on the border who manages the situation, not a few different services and inspections that are responsible for border control. This is a question that is standard European practice and must be done. The next is a complex solution to the problem of improving the conditions for migrants and refugees. To do that, we need a clear vision and a clear plan for the development of the State Migration Policy in today's conditions. This is absolutely critical, and for this we create a special contact centre with the European Union, taking into account the potential speculations that are among many European Union politicians. A critical issue is the only approach to reforming the law enforcement system. The EU wants us to see a very clear plan with dates and substantive issues that we need to make by the end of this year and next year. Among others, improved witness protection, reduced powers of pretrial investigation, specialized judges, and prosecution in criminal cases involving organized crime are expected. Thus, we have before us the task of creating a comprehensive plan for reforming law enforcement agencies, strengthening it with practical steps and providing it to the EU by the end of the summer. I also want to focus on creating an asset recovery and asset management body. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with our international partners, is currently working on this. And the National Bank must ensure that the mechanisms against abuse, anonymous money and quasi-money services, as well as measures against banks that do not reveal the final beneficiary in accordance with European standards, are effective and comply with all international standards. We all know clearly what we need to do to combat corruption. For the European Union, it is important that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the National Anti-Corruption Agency and the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office actually work. So we have a joint task of developing these plans, we have very clear plans for how the ministries and departments of Ukraine work. But we also need to adopt a series of very important laws that we all know about. And that's a common problem again. The leadership of the State and the President of Ukraine set before us the task of providing a full update on the implementation of the recommendations of the fifth report by August 17. On the basis of this report, we will have EU assessment missions and the final report of the European Commission, which will serve as the basis for a positive conclusion and implementation of the visa-free regime in 2016. Thank you very much. And I would like to stress that all these measures are necessary not only for the visa-free regime, but also for our reforms, for our desire to claim ourselves as a European democratic state. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Ministry of Defence, I invite you to speak to Deputy Defence Minister Gusev Jury Venyaminović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u10	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence supports and thanks all the people's deputies who contribute to reforms in the Ministry of Defence. In answer to the questions that have been sent, I would also like to thank the Committee of the Supreme Council for the issues of national security and defence, which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, helps to provide more quality and timely support to our military forces. As to the questions that have come. Questions from the Party's deputy faction, Peter Prashenka, to the Ukrainian Defence Minister. "What changes are being made in the norms and standards of consumer and food security in view of the increased funding of the defence sector." The Ministry of Defense, as you well know, created the Reform Office. A separate reform is to reform the provision of goods, a project with the involvement of NATO advisers is being implemented. At present, two NATO TANAG standards have been adopted, namely: TANAG 2920 – methods of ballistic testing of personal armored defences and combat weapons and TANAG 4296 – protection of the eyes of military personnel and ballistic defence. Technical conditions have been developed for a whole range of items of new property, namely high-gauge shoes, summer suits, fabric for making clothes in the field, and many others -- and that's all in line with NATO standards. I would also like to point out that the National Security and Defence Committee has passed Bill 2551, which would allow the Minister of Defence during a special period to quickly amend the rules of the provision of goods. Projects have been prepared for the Ministry of Defence's orders to approve the rules on the provision of war-form items and the equipment of Ukrainian Armed Forces military personnel, as well as the order for the approval of samples, items and equipment of a single combat kit. In order to improve food security, changes have been made to legislation regarding the granting of the right to food at the expense of the State to the military warehouse in the field during the day-to-day rotation at the offices and citizens appointed to the military service with the declaration of mobilization. Field security of military personnel has been introduced with drinking water bottled. Additional food at standard 2 has been introduced. An increased range of products was introduced, such as fat, honey, and chocolate. To implement the Cabinet of Ministers order 492r from 14 May 2015 from 1 August to 31 October 2015, an experiment will be carried out on the food supply of military parts by means of a centralized and decentralized purchase of a product package using a catalogue of products. Right now, we are actively working on this, including our NATO consultants. Is the government budget sufficient to provide adequate material and technical support to the Ukrainian Armed Forces? I don't have enough to report right away. The state budget was planned for over 140,000 military personnel, and in fact now, with your decisions taken, the decisions of the President of Ukraine have 250,000 military personnel. And given the fact that the issue of demobilization and additional mobilization as part of another mobilization wave, we have about 250,000 military personnel in the state. In general, the need for financial resources from the rear of the General Staff and the rear of the Armed Forces amounts to 12 billion 130 million dollars, including about three billion dollars to feed a special warehouse, three billion 821 million dollars to provide fuel and oil supplies for more than five billion dollars. And we hope that a political decision will still be made that the fuel of Kurchenka will be transferred to the Ministry of Defence for the purpose of providing the Armed Forces with the necessary fuel. In fact, in 2015, the Ministry of Defence allocated a financial resource of six billion 576.1 million dollars per back, representing 54 percent of the need. Including for food, one billion, 594 million dollars, for goods, two billion, 797 million dollars, for fuel and oil supplies, two billion, 183 million dollars. The additional requirement for direct back-up costs in 2015 amounts to five billion 476, 9 million dollars, including for special warehouse feeding — 1 billion 277 million dollars, for personal security — a billion 23 million dollars, for fuel and oil materials — about 3 billion dollars. Thus, as a result of the above-mentioned Ministry of Defence 2015, there are not enough funds allocated for adequate material and technical security. This issue was also discussed during the National Security and Defence Committee’s next meeting. This issue has been discussed at the Prime Minister's meetings and we will ask the National Deputies to allocate additional resources. Is there a delay in the necessary purchases made by the Competition Trade Committee of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to make appropriate contracts? I want to tell you that a few months ago, the Defense Minister made a decision to change the head of the Competition Committee and is now headed by the famous volunteer, Oleg Sverko. In 2015, 4 billion 392 million dollars were earmarked for the needs of the Armed Forces to provide food, supplies, and supplies. Today, 361 contracts and additional agreements totalling 3 billion 70.4 million dollars have already been purchased and concluded by the Competition Committee of the Ministry of Defence. And the Secretary of Defense has commissioned all procedures on the basic needs of the rear of the Armed Forces to complete by the end of June. The question from the MP's People's Front political party about the fund-raisers. Today, such work is taking place actively. There's a question about size, we're working on creating a studio, we're implementing a logistics project. But once again, there is a lack of financial resources today, which is why we're going to ask you to increase it. Next question. The mobilization of military personnel, regardless of the rank of military, produces a standard set. Today, it is standard for mobilized military personnel to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u11	Can you please tell me how much more time you need? One minute? Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u12	They get a vest, a Kevlar helmet, a sleeping bag, a carimate, a water suit, and a rubber boot. Other items that are subject to the specified standard are procurement procedures, such as masked suits, combat shirts, unloading systems, hydrosystems, tactical gloves, archery glasses, kneecaps, and so on. The delivery deadline is scheduled to be 15 August of this year. Next question. "How will the issue of the actual absence and issuance of special clothing be addressed to military personnel who are employed in the exploitation, maintenance, repair of military equipment and other jobs?" With the aim of providing military personnel with special equipment for the operation, maintenance, and repair of military equipment in the Armed Forces, the purchase of special suits of 94,000 kits is organized. And the last question is, from the deputy faction of the political party of Self-Help, which concerns the issue of armament, the order of armament of military-bound authorities. The selected question is settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u13	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u14	This issue is settled in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. The responsible body for this is the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, with which we cooperate in a fruitful manner, and at any time ready to provide any support to those whom the State deems necessary to prevent from mobilizing. Thank you for your attention. And I look forward to supporting our initiatives to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches from the government has run out. And now I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the government. I remind you, every question is one minute. And it's given up to two minutes to answer it. Please sign up for a question to the government. Please record. Cosak Taras Romanovich, Opposition Block. To whom does Cossack pass? Where is Kozak?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u17	Please, I want to see Kozak pass on the word. Cossack present or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u18	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u19	Excuse me, please. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u20	Good afternoon! Igor Gus, deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr. Klimkin, please tell me how you and the President can be helped. For the third time, I have been addressing our country’s ambassadors in key countries: Britain, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Hungary. In the end, appoint ambassadors to these nations! We're at war, we're fighting an aggressor, we need ambassadors to protect the interests of the Ukrainian state. I'm told you're giving ambassadors, and the President's Administration holds them a year from now. What can I do for you? If you need help, I will personally call a colleague, and we will make such a warning blocking of parliament for next week so that the President will hear us. To date, 13 ambassadors have not been appointed. Mr. Klimkin, do your best to convince the President the ambassadors should be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u21	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u22	Thank you so much for asking that question. I want to say that very many ambassadors in key countries will be appointed just in the coming weeks. This was related, including diplomatic procedures, to obtaining permission from aggressors. And from the point of view of the importance of their representation, but they're represented by the very best people. And ambassadors who will be appointed will be just as they have been appointed: the very best and able to represent Ukraine in key countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u23	Anointed Andrew Vitaliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u24	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Please pass the word to Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u25	Maxim Burbak, People's Front. I have a few questions for the Minister of Infrastructure, Andrew Pivovarski. Mr. Minister, please state the directions for the development of Ukrainian seaports as the most investment-attractive objects in the area of the Ministry of Infrastructure. How much investment was involved this year, and how much are you planning to make by the end of this year? And the third question. During these days, Ilcivian Maritime Port trade union meetings were held to address the President with regard to the possible illegal actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure in the conduct of a competition for the head of this port. Do you not think that this could block the competition that is scheduled to take place on Monday, at the head of the Iljivian Seaport, just as it did with the management of the Cruise Station and the management of the Borispil Airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u26	Thank you so much, Maxime, for asking. What is involved in marine infrastructure. As you know, I've stated publicly many times that in order to invest in the terminal infrastructure of ports that are truly investment-attractive to international and Ukrainian investors, it is necessary to adopt a law under which styvedor companies go beyond strategic objects and are subject to privatization. This year, the Ministry of Infrastructure has conducted more than a dozen meetings with potential investors in terminal-import infrastructure. These meetings include prominent foreign companies such as Souflie, Nobel, Dupont, Cargill and others. Today, in an hour, I'm going to sign a memorandum of understanding with Souflie, which is one of the biggest European companies involved in trans-shipment, agricultural trade, that the company is willing to invest up to $100 million in a new terminal in Ukraine. The next week in 10 days, the signing of the next memorandum of understanding will also be with a large international company. This will prove that the infrastructure is attractive. But for foreign and local investors to come, it is necessary to create conditions. We need to put the styvedor companies on privatization, billions of dollars going into terminal infrastructure. What's going on at the Illysi port competition today, the lawyers are going to give me a final opinion. And if there's any breach of legislation, the competition will be either relaunched or transferred. There will be no violation of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u28	A word, please, to Soboljev Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u29	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u30	First question to the minister of finance and to the people responsible for paying taxes. When will a criminal case be brought against the head of the Scrooge for not paying billions of dollars in taxes? The other one. A request to all members of the government. Unfortunately, you were involved in a large device called the Competition Commission to form the National Anti-Corruption Agency. That agency that's supposed to publish all the declarations. Please take it under control, review your decision to approve this competitive commission and organize a genuine fair competition. It is vital that this work succeeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u31	With regard to Skrnafts, I would like to remind you that on July 22, there were general shareholders' meetings to decide on the change of director. Accordingly, a new participant, I am sure, will be appointed by the State, with more than 50 percent in the fixed capital of the Crucibles. I want to assure you that after the change of leadership, all actions will be consistent with the laws of Ukraine. Thus, after July 22, after the congregations, there will be appropriate changes. Regarding criminal responsibility, well, I want to point out that this is certainly not a ministerial position. On our part, we will definitely conduct an internal investigation, connect our resources with regard to clarification, conduct a thorough inspection, conduct inventory, and be able to provide information support to the special bodies. But this is the decision of the appropriate authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u32	I'll just add, if I may. That I'm no one interested in paying my taxes and dividends that they owe to the state budget. Today I will ask Mr. Nasirov (head of the DFS) for a concrete plan of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u33	Thank you. The boggy Grigory Mikhailovich, the block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Dekhtyarchuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u35	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154 constituency, Dublin. Mr. Hennadia, there is. To Gennady Tooth. I am also a proponent of decentralization, and I understand those needs of change in civil society that we now have in the country. But it concerns a number of formational situations, a plan of united communities that are approved by district councils. For example, there's a call from the Dublin City Council, which is the city of district importance, was the decision of the City Council, but despite it, the District Council has formed a district of Dubna, and the city of Dubna, one of the only major communities, which includes 110 inhabited sites, a total length of more than 40 kilometers, not decentralization, but rather the entire centralization and disdain of local self-government. I'm asking you to make sure that these proposals are clearly taken into account and that these are not allowed to happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor. Actually, that's interference in situations that are in regions and places. Why? Because for the first time, I want to stress that the perspective is the main word of the plan and the perspective. Final approval of how communities will be united, with whom to sign a treaty, how to discuss both the city of Dubno and the region of Dublin, and also today no one will force people to make a decision that was made in the district council to sign the agreements. So once again, we need to look at some, well, particularities of each region, where those that prevent them from performing their functions, take them into account, and take them into account. Once again, however, it is a voluntary task for territorial communities to sign a treaty with one another. But I would like to point out that it is those voluntary associations of communities that will unite that they will be given the maximum authority to carry out their functions. It's an inter-budget relationship at the district city level, it's a budget authority, it's an opportunity to use and manage the land, and it's all the functions that it takes to make a quality life for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u37	Pavlov Konstantin Yuriovich, "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u38	Constantine Pavlov, "The Opposition Block," please pass the word to Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we have come to an end today, we have heard the answer that no voluntary unification of the regional communities in Ukraine is taking place, there is a forced union of communities under government pressure and financial blackmail by the government. My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. Pressure and repression continue against opposition in Ukraine. There's no political party in Kharkivsk. We voted the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections yesterday. In fact, you're afraid to let the Opposition Block go to the local elections, don't be afraid, we'll win anyway. And in Ivano-Frankiv district, the district council decided to ban the opposition block. Why the Ministry of Justice has taken a position that has all the signs of crime of criminal inaction and opposition to illegal actions to prevent the registration of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u41	Now I'm going to give the Deputy Minister of Justice a word. But I would like to emphasize. That's what I was talking about in my speech. As far as decentralization is concerned, the political forces in Ukraine have now joined in as they convince our citizens that decentralization is a bad thing for Ukraine in the future. Once again, I would like to point out that every MP who takes this position should speak openly to his constituents about the fact that he does not want roads to be built in his territorial community to build educational institutions to provide quality administrative services. And you would like to stay in charge of finance from the center, travel to Kiev, settle issues, and be such a queen on your land. That won't happen. Ukraine has decided to delegate authority to local self - government. Therefore, please consider on your land your district council, with those elected today. And this is really decentralization of functions and powers without politics, but only with the economy, with a forward-looking development and with Ukraine's future. Please report to Mrs. Natal regarding the registration of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Hennadia. Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize that the Ministry of Justice, which has the Department of Registration, both political parties and the media, deviates from the principle of equality. If a complete package of documents was not collected, the registration was not carried out. In most areas it has already passed. So please note the quality of the preparation of the documents. And the Department of Registration treats everyone equally, regardless of whether opposition parties or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u43	Please, Head Mikhailo Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u44	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a question, but he's ignored everything today, he doesn't want to answer the people's deputies. Then we'll have to ask Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. First. We have heard from the President that Ukraine has received 40 billion aid. We remember that last year we returned 14 billion. Where did 26 more go, and where was the money spent on the Ukrainian economy? First question. And the second question also applied to the Prime Minister, well, of course, to the Minister of Energy. I would like to remember the Prime Minister always telling us that we have our own gas and that he should be returned to the population. So why do they not want to return the gas of their own production to the population today? That's over 20 billion cubic meters of gas. And what difference does it make when what we're buying in Russia is $248, and we're selling to a population of almost 340, that's 80 dollars on the top. What difference does it make? Why is the Ukrainian people being robbed?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u45	On your first question about 2014, you said the numbers wrong. We got credit support for 9 billion, and we paid off 14. Forty billion is a package that was announced in March for the next four years. There are three components. The first component is 17.5 billion from the International Monetary Fund for four years. We've already gotten 5 out of 17.5, and these 5 are on the reserve of the National Bank. So we've doubled the very low status of our reserves. The second component is 7.2, 7, (coma) 2 billion from our bilateral and multilateral partners, including a billion credit guarantees that we just received from the United States, including a billion 800 that you ratified yesterday from the EU, which you haven't received a cent. Including 800 million of the 500 World Bank and 300 from Japan, which we can't get, because we can't accept two bills in this room. And we're not going to get the 800. And I can talk about other things that we can't get because we don't fulfill our obligations. The last part of this 40 billion, the third part is the part that has to be saved, not earned, but not paid, due to the successful restructuring of our debts. And we continue to work, meet, and try to complete the restructuring as soon as possible. But it's not living money that someone's giving us, it's not new loans -- it's savings because of the restructuring of debt over four years, 15.3 billion dollars that we don't have to pay if we succeed. Not if, when we've successfully completed our restructuring. And that's the 40 billion you've been talking about since March. We got from these 40s this year: 5 from the International Monetary Fund, 1 billion from the United States, and there's some part of the Canadians, and there's a little bit of the Japanese. 40 billion is for 4 years, and that includes savings from successful restructuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Instead of the Deputy Illenka, the word is given to the Deputy Soloi. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u47	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u48	I'm sorry! There wasn't a complete answer to the question, was there?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u49	There were two more questions about gas from Mr. Golovko, the difference between the $250 price that Ukraine was buying, and 340, as you said. I want to point out that the gas we're buying, whether in Russia or in Europe, the price you're talking about corresponds to the price at the border. So this gas has to be transported, connected to the vaults, then delivered to the consumer, and also at the top of that price, as you imagine, you have VAT. So transport is about 700 dollars, so depending on where the customer is, and storage, the cost of storage in the repository is 700 dollars, about 35 dollars. And the VAT on this whole sum is an extra $65. So 340 is essentially a market price. With regard to the first question: Where does the gas of Ukrainian extraction go? Ukrainian. The main source of gas is the Crushing, which extracts 13.5 billion cubic meters of gas. In this year, we expect the population to consume about 14 billion cubic meters of gas (population) and an additional 6.5 billion to 7 billion will be consumed by the Heatcommunergo to produce heat, which is also consumed by the population. So the population consumes more than 20 billion cubic meters of gas. The difference between Ukrainian production and consumption should be financed by the import gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u51	Yuri Solovay, MP Strike, 89 constituency. The question is addressed to the Minister of Transport, Mrs. Andrija Pivovarski. Dear colleagues, we all know that the problem of Western Ukraine's roads, especially in mountain areas, is number one. And I am very pleased that for the first time in 10 years, the Ministry of Transport has returned to this problem, and with the joint efforts of the deputies, the government has come up with a budget programme for road construction in the Carpathian region, which envisions the allocation of 700 million dollars to solve this problem. And that's why I have a question for the respectable Andriy Mikolaiovich. Two questions. First. How these 700 million dollars are used. And the second question. Whether additional funds are to be made available to restore the state of the infrastructure that is currently underprivileged in Western Ukraine and, in particular, in part in the mountainous areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u52	Thank you so much for asking. Yes, indeed, the government, along with the deputies, has allocated 700 million dollars to the development of the road economy in the Pricarpathian region. I'd like to report the status we're in today. The government has already done all the necessary legal work to get the money allocated and the work started. Work on this project has already begun this week. Where will the money go? 550 million dollars goes to the development of the Lviv road – Bibrka – Ivano-Frankivsk. The government has decided another 150 million dollars will go into the hole and current repairs of roads N-10, R-24, these are the directions of Stry-Mamaliga and Tatar – Kamyanec-Podilski within the region of Ivano-Frankov. And P-24 is going to go 75 million dollars, N-10 is going to go 77.5 million dollars. Work on this project will be completed by the end of this year. Tender procedures are almost on the way out. In some sections of the road, tender procedures have already been carried out, and contractors have already gone to work. And secondly, this applies mainly to the region of Ivano-Frankiv, and by the end of July, we'll have tender procedures completed and the work will begin. With regard to extra revenue. There's an agreement with the local authorities that the local authorities will apply co-financing in this direction from the money they will receive from the budgetary decentralization that they started, started by the Cabinet of Ministers at the beginning of this year. So I expect that 100-150 million dollars of extra money will come to the development of the Prikarpati region, the roads of the Prikarpati region from the local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u53	Please, another Hennadai Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to add some more information that, aside from the budget programmes, other than the budget money involved in local self-government, we are now having further negotiations under the KfW agreement on the construction of roads in the eastern areas. This is the case with the Kharkiv – Kupyansk – Svatovo road and this refers to the road of Zaporozhye – Mariupol. That's what we want to do in order to strengthen the infrastructure of the eastern regions. Also right now, we're about to enter into an agreement with the European Investment Bank on an extraordinary programme for Eastern Ukraine, this is Donetsk, Lugansk, Zaporzikka, Kharkivska, Dnipropetrovska oblast. It is also the agreement that provides for 200 million people, including infrastructure projects, including bridge restoration, including road rehabilitation and railway connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u55	Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u56	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. I have a question for the Deputy Secretary of Defense. Now you're telling me you're always buying clothes, kneecaps, shoes for the military. But our army had not changed their clothes for seven months. Please tell me, when are you going to provide clothes, shoes, our military chiefs? And there's also information that doesn't have enough food in the Ukrainian ranges, especially in the equatorial range. Similarly, please take this to ensure that our military personnel are provided with clothing, shoes, and food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u57	Does it work? Mr. Osuhovsky, thank you for asking. I'll start with food. Food is now completely under control, thanks to including the National Security and Defence Committee deputies, Aunty Blackwall, John Winnick. We control food suppliers and food providers. We'll check the equivalency range further. That's the first one. The other one. Replacing the form of clothing for those 6 months or more in the antiterrorist area is planned. But once again, I want to emphasize that there is a lack of resources due to the fact that three waves of mobilization are ongoing, and three waves of mobilization in the planned order are provided. Please also note this during the budget review. As for individual cases, please provide information, and we will study and correct the situation in conjunction with the rear of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u58	Who's it gonna be? No, no, I'm sorry, we're not yet. Answers to questions. Right away from Peter Dustenka's Block, Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u59	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. Gennady Grigorovich, I have a question for you, 62th District, Rosenblatt Borislav, your family. A question like a builder to a builder. When the energy revolution that we're all talking about finally begins in our country, our colleagues are always asking questions about tariffs in the LHC, utilities. But the question is, when are we going to start warming up our houses, when we start consuming the gas of our own production that we're getting enough, when we're creating jobs, and when are we going to start saving our gold reserves? So that's one question, that's the main question. We get loans all the time, but these loans go somewhere. And the second question to the Minister of Agrarian Politics. In the past year, we are in the hops and laurels of money, Alexei Mihajlovich, Alexei Mihajlovich, yes, I have a question from Žitomyrščina about hops and lacunary money. And there's still a question for Minister Habakkuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u60	Please give us a chance to finish. 20 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u61	The issue of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the subject of Tornado. After all, what's going on there, and how is it going to end?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. And I would like to inform all the members of the people that it is also possible for the State Regional Development Fund to channel funds to social facilities, energy - efficient institutions. And we're also signing a memorandum with the Swiss Government to give 15 million Swiss francs just for thermo-modernization, this is to install individual heat points, this is to warm houses, and this is to modernize thermal power plants that will allow less gas to be consumed, and from future calculation, to replace alternative sources and sources of energy. I would like to say that today the local self-government that works actively, which today can provide ready projects, is an opportunity to finance, at the expense of loans to the Bank of the European Development Reconstruction, at the expense of IFAP grants, which now make up virtually all European countries, and invest these funds as grants in order to reduce the credit burden on these programs. Similarly today, the government has started a program with nearly 500 million dollars to compensate for the acquisition of 20 percent of non-gas boilers, for the warming of individual houses – 30 percent, and for compensation for 40 percent of the drowning of multi-floor buildings that have their own OSBB. And we're also doing a very powerful job right now to create an energy efficiency fund. But the question of financing it. Today we have a prior agreement with countries in Europe, such as the German government, which will finance the start-up capital of this fund. But they demand a very simple decision today: Ukraine should show that it is a priority. And that's why we're going to ask for changes to the Budget Code, to support our bill on creating an efficiency fund and involving state funds for the warming of multi-story buildings. To this day, we need to understand that at the expense of those who have money today, they will drown them and use credit. But there are so many people who today, when they receive subsidies, cannot afford to take energy - efficient measures. And we, as a state, have to help them, because every saved thousand cubic metres of gas is a factor in Ukraine's independence. So please, we will be introducing these bills. And I invite honourable national MPs to join the work on these bills and to support them in the future in order to further increase the financing of energy-efficient measures in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u63	Please, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, The Peter Dust Block. Irina Heratchenko? Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u65	Mrs. Irina, I'm sorry. There were two questions. More, please. Who else is answering? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u66	Thank you for asking about the hops. You know, unfortunately, this year has not provided funding for this very important area, including gardening. Which is also, let's say there was zero, and now we have funding to compensate for the bank interest of 300 million, it's not enough, although we're going to need an increase. Including animal production, of the 50 million that are now in decline, you know that we have a problem with milk prices. And now we're doing a very large piece of advice and we're figuring out why, for example, we've raised prices by only 8 percent from the population, and accordingly, the broken milk prices have increased by up to 45 percent, which is the problem. But we started with questions, a letter was put on an agrarian committee, including proposals to increase funding for this year. And plus, there's a debt problem last year, including through some programs, we've also raised that question. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Mrs. Irina, dear colleagues, I would like to make an important announcement. Many deputies come to me and ask for my word. I cannot and do not have the right to change the sequence of speakers, as recorded, and every next person in the record asks why they did not. So I stress, according to the rules, I don't have the right to change the sequence of speakers, and I can't go over the rules unless I vote separately. We all call for compliance with the rules, and I follow them. And so the last question is, unfortunately, we're out of time, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Today is the world's Refugee Day, and this is an extremely painful topic for Ukraine. And my question to Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. Dear Mr. Zubko, almost a year ago the Supreme Council passed the Migration Act, but the government has not yet developed a comprehensive plan to support the displaced. When will this plan be? And when the Donbas agency is finally established, it will also coordinate the government's work in addressing these issues. And to the Deputy Secretary of Defense from my colleague, Honourable Deputy Gordyev, next question. Military units 2802, this is Broad Lan, military section 4050, just like the Donbas battalion near Shirokino, complains that they don't have an old military uniform while it's being sold. Please comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I would like to report that today the government, together with the European Foundations, the World Foundations, UNDP, the EU and the World Bank have developed and developed a humanitarian response plan that has been approved by the government and which has been proposed by our entire ministry to take into account work in order to address the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. I would like to add to the report that there is an agency today after the restoration of Donbas. I expect that in the coming week, at a government meeting, there will be a head of this agency, who is very conscious, who understands what needs to be done, how to propose projects, how to cooperate, how to work with humanitarian international organizations, and also with international financial organizations. This is a very important issue and so far we have done a lot together as the European Union, with the World Bank and with the UN, a plan to assess the needs of the restoration of Donbas. According to this plan there are questions and reconstructions of infrastructure projects, there are issues of social support and rehabilitation of people, as well as issues relating to the employment of people in eastern Ukraine. So it's a very important question, it doesn't go out of order. Today, a number of documents that have been accepted allow him to work. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to make an additional working group that will allow us at the legislative level to reinforce these plans by specific legislative acts. So I invite you to work, please get involved and we'll work together on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u70	I also wanted to thank Mrs. Irina for asking about the Wide Lan. Throughout the Wide Lan, the Ministry of Defence has decided to carry out several service tests and investigations, including food, and we will certainly check the fact of the provision, the security that relates to the basic types of security, and if the facts of the sale of the form are found somewhere outside the site, it is certainly a criminal offence, these documents are then transferred to the prosecutor’s office, here no doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Dear Vice Prime Minister! Honourable colleagues, according to the Rules, have the right to ask questions. And that's why I'm giving two performances. This is Oleg Lazko and Kisse. You didn't have a word? Your faction? You had the word, "The Opposition Block." Come to me. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to speak to the Minister of Housing. The whole country knows about the tariff situation. Absolute tariffs. But the housing-communal subsidies procedure is absolutely one that makes it impossible for people to get those tariffs. Only 15 percent of those entitled to these subsidies took advantage of the right and are now receiving these subsidies. That's why I'm talking to my respected colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies. Today we have a bill in the agenda for automatically charging subsidies to our citizens. I have a big request, don't break up, people are good enough for us to vote on this bill. It will allow 14 million Ukrainian citizens to receive grants automatically. In addition, today's agenda is the President's veto bill, which will allow women 55 years of age to go out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u73	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u74	Your Honor, Minsoc will give you an answer on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u75	Dear Oleg Valeriovich, I want to thank you for asking. In fact, the Ministry of Social Policy is doing everything possible today to simplify the grant procedure. And in fact, today, half of the people who turned received subsidies. Everyone else is in the process. This is in harmony with the position that has been adopted today. Not enough of this, knowing the nuances, we are now working on changes that will make it impossible to make further mistakes that would in many cases be the basis for delays. And at the same time, we're doing everything we can to work this out in a short time. Now I would like to inform you that the Minister of Social Policy is in the region and is working directly to provide a quality and simple subsidy system, explaining it to local workers and working with groups. I would also like to report that six groups will be sent to the region on Monday to provide information and to study the matter on the spot, talking directly with social workers in the area. So all of these nuances are going to be implemented into the changes that are now being worked out. And this issue is being kept under full control by the Minister of Social Policy. We'll do our best to make the subsidy system as simple as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Julia Timoshenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u77	Good afternoon! I would like to report that the Fatherland faction has achieved that from all the factions of the coalition five bills have been supported. The first bill is about cancelling the rent on gas, which reduces people's tariffs on gas, heat and other services. Second, the bill on tariff sorting, which really gives the Ukrainian gas to the people. Then there are two drafts on pension taxes for working pensioners and for all other pensioners, and the indexation of pensions and salaries. All factions of coalitions and tradesmen were consolidated around these five bills. Sadly, however, the government has blocked the adoption of these laws in the Supreme Council, thus depriving people of even the hope of justice. We demand that these laws be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u79	Thank you, distinguished national deputies for your cooperation, and for your next meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, thank you to the government for participating. Unfortunately, the deadline is over. Appointments are scheduled, and now we're just gonna break the deal if we keep asking questions. Thank you very much to the government, thank you for your answers. Good-bye. We are moving on to the next paragraph of the Rules, which provides for parliamentary requests. But today we have a first-time procedure that provides for the consideration of the responses to the parliamentary requests of the Ukrainian national deputy, which is foreseen in the event that the answer is not prepared properly. And there's a special procedure for that. And we have a petition to the Head of the Supreme Council of the United States of Great Britain from the National Deputy of Cupria that his request has been considered and given insufficient answers. And "after the announcement of your answer to my request pursuant to section 226 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I demand that you give me three minutes to speak with a replication and evaluation of your activities." According to the Rules, we have to give three minutes to speak. Deputy Cupray is invited to the floor. He's gone. A similar situation. We have a call from Deputy Rizanenko. Is there a deputy Rizanenko? So did he. Is that right? In terms of what is asked, which is not answered in full. This refers to the request made by Groysman, and there is also a requirement that a three - minute speech be given on this subject. Please turn on the mic, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u81	Congratulations, dear colleagues. National MP Rizanenko. I draw your attention to what I want, we have this procedure under the Rules: if the answer to a request is not appropriate, MPs may require appropriate officials to present this answer in the Hall, and we can ask them questions, and they can meet our legal requirements. My question was about the changes to the Public Information Act, which we adopted last year, according to which the LDK Griffins were to be removed from all urban documentation throughout the year. And already in April-month, these are geneplans, detailed land payments, the zoning plans should not contain the graph "FTC." On my appeal to the city council of Brovary, I received an answer that the griff had not been removed with reference to the Minregion, to the institute of DIPROSTO and other state institutions that. And all the letters and the receipts. In this question, I propose to invite Minister Zubk, the representatives of the Minregion, the DIPROSTO, the geographic map and the mayor of the city here to give us an answer as to why the MFG is not being removed. It's not just the town of Brovary. This is the problem of all cities and settlements in Ukraine. We need to find out why the laws we adopt are not being enforced. Please support the vote on this requirement. According to the procedure, this should be voted on by 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Indeed, in accordance with the Rules following the intervention of the National MP and at the invitation of the National MP, who is the initiator of the parliamentary request, it is possible to discuss the answer to a parliamentary request in the event of a decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold an inquiry. This requires a vote of 226. So, your honors, I ask you to prepare for the vote, and I'm voting on the proposal of a national MP on the case of Noodle Paul Alexanderovich for the discussion of his question during the day-long preparation of the relevant draft decision. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. Please vote. [[11:25:59]] For-163 Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. But according to the Rules, 90 signatures are still possible, and this will be a sufficient basis for discussion. Before you go to the MPs' questions, your honors, I want you to. I've taken care of the Rules. According to the Rules, we would have, society, after asking the government to give half an hour for the performances, for the factions, and then for half an hour for the speeches by the deputies. In view of the fact that we were prepared for a day’s work, where there are only 30 minutes together, we entered into a conflict when some groups did not get their word. I apologize to them, and I will find the next opportunity to give the floor, and I will make sure that the next time we have a separate half hour to speak from the factions and individual deputies. This is the technical misunderstanding that has taken place today, and I apologize once again, and we are moving on to the consideration and reading of parliamentary inquiries. Please, Mrs. Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u83	Good afternoon! Dear National Deputies! We do. I hope we can send requests from the people's deputies to the President of Ukraine today. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. I very much ask you, honourable national deputies, to go to the hall and support the requests of your colleagues, the national MPs who are to be sent to the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you once again that requests to the President of Ukraine need to be voted on in Parliament. First we have to get 150 votes to support the request and once again 226 votes to send such a request to the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to. These questions, they're increasing, and we can't send them. These are your questions and your colleagues. Thus, the first request is a request from National Deputy Mustafa-Masi Nyem to the President of Ukraine for information on possible arrangements with and any commitments made to him in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this request by voting. Please vote. [[11:28:38]] For 165 Decision taken. But it's just a decision to support the request. I'm asking you to focus on the national MPs. And now I want to put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support. [[11:29:17]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Next question. People's MP Alexander Sugonjak's request to the President of Ukraine for unwarranted natural gas tariffs used for the needs of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of such a request. Please vote. [[11:29:59]] For-183 Decision taken. I now put to the vote to send such a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:30:21]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Request for the National Deputy Paul Kiskar to the President of Ukraine to receive the National Military Awards for the Second Battalion Special Assignment "Donbas", military section 3027, First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote to support this request. Please vote. [[11:30:57]] For-187 Decision taken. Now, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support sending such a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:31:19]] For-188. The decision is not made. A request from National Deputy Tetjana Crnowol to the President of Ukraine for the expulsion of Mr. Ivanyushenko's "Block of Peter" Nedaly Oleg Anatoliyovich, the manager of Yuri Ivanyushenko. I'm betting on the vote to support this request. Please vote. [[11:31:57]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Tetjana Blackwall's request for illegal actions by Viktor Bondik, Victor Bondik, in particular the discrediting of officials of the President's Administration. I'm betting on the vote to support this request. [[11:32:27]] For-149 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! There are enough cards in the hall. It's physical. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite your colleagues into the hall to participate in the decision-making process. The request of National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Shuhević to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the "Publication is not subject to" and for the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for former National Deputys of the Soviet Union and the Soviet Union, the former First Secretaries of the Committees of the Ukrainian Republic, and so on, the members of their families who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the suspension of the payment of pensions to these persons. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this request. Please vote. [[11:33:56]] For 184 Decision taken. I am now voting on this request. Please vote. [[11:34:18]] For-189 The decision is not taken. And the question of the people's deputies: Leshchenka, Zaleschuk and others (a total of 10 deputies) to the President of Ukraine regarding the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talks by Shevchenk Taras Sergiyyovitch or Cotyuzhian Tetjana Igorovna. Please support this request. [[11:34:53]] For-149 The decision is not taken. We'll go back to, once again, those questions when there's enough people. But, honourable national deputies, I point out to you that the examination of questions is a matter of order on the day of Friday, and only the physical presence of your colleagues at the meeting of the Supreme Council can provide support for these requests. Thank you. Now we go to the Cabinet of Ministers and other government authorities. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of "Questions" will now be continued, and then there will be a break in accordance with the Rules, and after the break, we will consider the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, come on, we're just leaders here, right?Oh, my God! We work according to the Rules. If we want to change the sequence, let's vote: we're in favour. Let's go into the hall, then, let's go into the hall. And I'm going to put a motion on the vote to start the bill, cancel the break, and then I'm going to ask the MPs. So let's get whoever's in the neighborhoods, in the towers, in the buffet, into the hall and try to change the order of things. Please come in. With your permission at that time, I will make a proposal whether it will be united. Respectful colleagues therefore view the proposal as united. First, do not take a break from 12 to 12.30 today and pass after reading the questions, for the consideration of the matter has already begun, society. All right, let's go over the laws and not take a break. Two suggestions in one. Is it supported? We will believe that this same hot support will be during the vote that all factions vote in a friendly and disciplined manner. We're just interested in getting us to work more actively. So I'm going to rephrase the proposal: to go over the issues and not take a break from 12 to 12.30. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:38:11]] For 206 Maybe some didn't come in. Let's try it again. Maybe some didn't come in. All right, respectable society, here comes the question. And we're going to continue our consideration of the question. Mrs. Oksana, we've already begun our consideration of the matter and please continue reading the MP's questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u85	So let's keep asking questions. Ask the national MPs. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the voters of the 67 constituency, the peasants of Žitomirski, Lubarski, Romani and Wonderland districts of the Žitomir region on the need to raise the purchase price for milk in 2015. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the failure to execute a court decision on the recalculation and payment of pensions as a child of war, Karpenek Petr Vasilovich, a village of the city type Ljubara, Žitomir district. Ruslan Sidorovich to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for providing information on the date of the hearing regarding the examination of the facts of the wrongful actions of the judges of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Leonid Kosenka and Vasil Zaiew, which led to the unlawful conviction of a citizen of Anatolia Prikmeta. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the course of criminal investigation on Anatoly Primeta's application to commit a criminal offence by an employee of the Department of Criminal Investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Elijah Šulipenkom and the head of the Department of Vasil Pascal. Bogdan Onfrik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District Council, the Odessa City Head on the illegal construction of the land in the Odessa Park Area. Anna Romanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the cessation of channels of supply to terrorists for the occupied territory of strategic resources. Alexander Abdullin to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the inaction of the central authorities in addressing the appeals of the Grigorovna Yankovsky Hope from the city of Dubrovice of Ravensk for the purpose of searching for her son, military officer Ruslan Vitaliyovich Jankowski, who disappeared while performing a military mission at Lugansk Airport. Victoria Vojtsicka to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the fulfilment of mandatory requirements by the Fund of State Property, the Kyiv Master’s Court of Justice of 8 April 2015 in case No. 910/8760/15-h. Vladimir Ariev to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for his refusal to join the chaplain service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces as representatives of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal election of Ganishu Vasil Vasilovich as a precautionary measure. Irina Sisoyenko to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for the development and approval of educational programs for the preparation of medical and psychological rehabilitation specialists. Andrija Kiselova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for the reconstruction of the boiler of the central city hospital of Donetsk. Andrija Kiselova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding the construction of six-block modular mini-cots to burn down five schools and five preschools in the city of Dimitrov Donetsk. Ruslana Knazević to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Zacarpathian law enforcement officials. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Zakarpatski District Attorney's Office. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of the Artesian well in the city of Lebedin Sumska District. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of a platoon on the streets of Corsa and the border in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the critical situation that has resulted in the provision of medical assistance to military forces, volunteer military forces and civilian populations in the ATO area in the area of control of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of corruption in the Ministry of Health. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of corruption in the Ministry of Health of Ukraine at the meeting of the College of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat to the environmental situation in the city of Kanevi and the Canow region. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding a write-off to the MP on the question of finding an acceptable solution regarding the organization of the provision of suburban railway connections in the region of Alexandria. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Administration of Railways of Ukraine, South-West Railway, Kiev-Swiatoshin Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region on the need for action to complete the construction of a multi-story building on Yellow Street in the town of Vishneve Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kiev. Vasila Petyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the Zacarpathian Region for the repair of roads. Sergia Dunayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the immediate restoration of power lines that provide industrial facilities, infrastructure and residential sectors in the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk region and adjacent settlements. Sergia Dunayeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the destruction of housing for residents of House No.17 in the district of the Yellow Revolution in the city of Lysichansk Lugansk. Group of National Deputies (Evlahova, Gudzenka and others). A total of 13 deputies) to Ukraine’s Minister of Agriculture and Food on the regulation of purchase prices for milk. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the cessation of political pressure and repression. against the opposition, the continued implementation of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine to ensure a democratic procedure for the registration of the opposition bloc in the areas. Vladimir Melnicken to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to finance the water supply system and other important social sites in the Kamyanec-Podil district of the Hmeljna region. Anton Herashchenka to the Office of the Prosecutor for the City of Kiev, Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of Ukraine in Kiev, Desnyan District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, for the conduct of measures aimed at the detection and prevention of crimes in the area of road transport and public safety in the district of Kyiv. Jury of Macedonia to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the availability of citizenship of the Republic of Moldova to citizen Brok Petr Petrovich, January 15, 1960. Alexander Dudenkova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of consideration of applications by the private science and manufacturing company GALIS for the granting of a permit for the transport of goods (goods) to/from temporarily uncontrolled areas. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the existing state of the roadways of general use of the Zakartat region. Sergia Druuk to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Public Shareholders Association of the Commercial Bank of the Financial Initiative on the need to take immediate measures to pay cash through the cash register to investors of the Public Shareholders Association of the Commercial Bank of the Financial Initiative under deposit contracts that have expired. Sergey Druuk to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Fund to Guarantee the Investments of Individuals on the Need to Take Urgent Action to Pay the guaranteed amount of compensation to PAT investors, the City Commercial Bank. Dmitry Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the strengthening of road-preservation measures. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the activities of the State Enterprise "Novosažar Forest Farm" from the edge of the forest in the area of Small Cross-Border Forestry in the Novosažar region of Poltava and the verification of the relevant activities of the State environmental authorities of Poltavščina. Alexander Onishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the robbery of the Office of the Tov "Nadra Geocentrum" (City of Mironovka) by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tetjana Crnovol, and on her compulsory forensic and psychiatric expertise and treatment. Dmitra Špenov and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of officials of the law enforcement and control bodies of the Dnipropetrov region, which make it difficult for businesses to operate. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to clean up the Sarata River at the expense of the State Environmental Protection Fund. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation for the family of military personnel. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities to determine the mechanism of compensation for the difference in tariffs for the consumption of heat for the population from boilers working on alternative fuels. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of the transfer of the Chernobyl Clinical Anti-Tuberculus Dyspnoea outside the city of Chernivci. Maxima Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine for bringing to justice the former head of the Montenegrin district administration Mikhail Papiev for abuse of office and for obstructing the free exercise of his electoral rights by citizens in 2012. Victoria Voytzicka to the Director of the Department of Economics and Investments of the Kiev City Public Administration for information on the construction and development of infrastructure in Kiev. The hopes of Savchenko to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for providing information on measures taken to protect citizens who are illegally imprisoned and held in the territory of the Russian Federation. Olega Lavrika to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the recalculation of the cost of payment for the transfer of the debt. Paul Kishkar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister for the Military Industrial Complex. Bogdan Dubnević to the Lviv City Head for the payment of services for the electronic database of children before entering the preschool institutions of Lviv. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Lviv City Head for the transfer of House No.163 on the street of Trakt Glinyanski to the property of the territorial community of Lviv. Eugene Dejejda to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the provision of official information on the real state of construction of fortifications on the line of collision and buffer zone with occupied parts of the Lugansk and Donetsk region, as well as information on the actual losses of the dead and injured among Ukraine's defenders during the Minsk Accords. Andrija Šinkovič to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the preservation of extra-school education as part of the education system. Andrija Šinkovič to the Chief of South West Railways for the restoration of the train traffic on the route "Sepetovka-Sepetovka-Sepetovka". Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons, in part of the development of comprehensive State targeted programmes to support internally displaced persons. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to protect women who are forced to work in difficult working conditions under the age of 60. Andrija Shipka to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures regarding the indexation of pensions for low-income citizens of Ukraine. Oksana Sold to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of the VAT electronic administration system. Artema Ilyuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal regarding the provision of housing for a veteran of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, a citizen of the Romani Republic. Valery Lunchenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision "To Improve the Order on Housing Subsidies". Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption in the activities of the Cherka District Attorney’s Office in dealing with crimes committed in land matters. Alexia Lensky to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the review of the activities of officials of the Heivoron City Council of Kirovograd for the purpose of non-target use of funds allocated to water management from the State Budget of Ukraine in 2012 for the support of the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaška, as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for budgetary matters, the investment in the pre-election campaign of Viktor Yanukovič and the involvement of officials involved in the crime in Ukraine's legislative responsibility. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the personal acceptance of the leadership of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Reznik, on the ground of studying the circumstances of the deliberate failure by the Directorate for Combating Organised Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, special operations for the detection of officials of the Guivoron District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region in the event of a bribe on a particularly large scale, the use of prosecutorial response measures and the involvement of officials involved in the offences established by Ukraine's legislation. Sergio Larina, acting as Director-General of the Ukrainian State Postal Service Company, on issues related to the service of citizens in the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd, Department of the Ukrainian State Postal Service. Vitalia Kuril to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of the legal transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the Triotic Village Council of the Triotic Region of the Luhansk district of the stadium, the training base of the children's youth sports school of Crop. Andrija Illenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration, First Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev City, temporarily acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director-General of the Kyivénergo Public Action Society for the Protection of the Interests of the People of the Right District of Kiev, in connection with the lack of hot water supply in the residential building on Kurchatov Street for six months. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the Review of Water and Water Supply Tariffs. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the need for verification of consumer abuse. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the district community of the town of Hmelnicke Land area of 50 hectares. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Odessa District State Administration for failure to perform the duties of a legal representative of a child by the heads of the children’s institutions throughout the day. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the disadvantages of the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine’s public oversight in the area of compulsory state social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses. Irina Go back to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at halting the state-level "Lvivska railway" merger on the removal of land in the village of the city type Brukhovici. Valentina Didić to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the immediate repair of the roads of Prezebrzeski, Zelenagayski, Vištarasov and Chinese Village Councils of the Tomakow district of Dnipropetrovsk. Grigory Wrath to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine about a program to support individual housing in the village of Own House. Dmitra Sphenov and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of national security in Ukraine, in connection with the approval of the list of privatization objects. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal occupation by the Ipie-L limited liability of investors of the Hope Trade Center, located in the city of Zolochev of the Lviv region. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the speedy completion of the drafting of the documents and the granting of the status of a participant in the hostilities to Vasil Kindratski, the battalion's Battle for the United of Ukrainian Nationalists, the deputy head of the Lviv National Movement of Ukraine, who gave his life to protect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the activities of the Office of State Treasury in Cherkasa and for the unlawful intervention of the Government Treasury Office in Cherkasa by city head Odaricz, which led to a violation of budgetary legislation and the granting of priority to certain economic operators (the commission of corruption). Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the ban on the conduct of checks on operators. Jury Bublika to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for violating the oath of the judge of the Okjabre District Court of Poltava, Marina Maternko, in deciding and bringing her to disciplinary responsibility. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of the pension injustice in relation to the dependency of the pension on the date of its appointment, which leads to two persons with the same length and salary of pensions depending on the date of their appointment may vary more than twice. Alexander Villkull and Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for urgent inclusion in Parliament’s plenary meetings of the draft Decision on the Use of Response Measures and on the Eradication of the Emergency Situation, which took place at the end of April 2015 in the zone of alienation and the area of unconditional (compulsory) eviction, registration number 2807 by the deputies Alexander Villukul and Dmitr Kolesnikov. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Public Target Program "Drinking Water of Ukraine". Alexander Ponovařova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of activities and the dismissal of workers of the Labour Career Authority of the State Enterprise "Governmental Industrial Enterprises Administration of the Ukrainian Railway Administration". Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the railway movement in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the construction of R-17 in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region for the purpose of checking the funds spent on repairing the bridge across the Ross River at the Tetievsky and Voddar regions of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the solution of the water supply issue in the town of Squira Kyiv district. Mikoli Skorka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the termination of the BCG vaccination program of the newly born Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Mikoli Skorika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of children's shelters in the List of Institutions and Institutions of Education, Health and Social Protection and the posts at which the work grants the right to retirement for the years defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree No. 909 of 4 November 1993. Vasjunika's Igora to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on possible illegal imports into Ukraine of Russian production during 2014-2015. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the renewal of State guarantees to education workers. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Stability and Economic Improvement of the Municipal Enterprise "City Water and Water Management". Jaroslava Dubnević to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the development of changes to the Customs and Tax Codes of Ukraine. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for conducting a comprehensive service investigation in accordance with the concerns of the Honourable Doctor of Ukraine Drigibek Omelyan Georgievovich. Gregory Timesa to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of Roads Service in the Chernivsky region, on the use of measures to carry out a capital repair of the O-2602 Road "Travel of the village of the city type Deepok". Ruslana Demczak to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the violation of the tender procedure. Ruslana Demczak to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the wrongful actions of the presiding judge of the Ravenna Court of Appeal of Galina Buchinska. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take into account the proposals made by the Provincial Regional Authority in connection with the implementation of administrative and territorial reform. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation of the sole social contribution from the salary to the employees of the executive apparatus of the Provincial Council. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live in houses 34 and 34/1 on King's Street on the use of effective response measures for a comprehensive solution to the modernization of the elevator industry, the well-being of the instigator area with the safety of road traffic and the safety of children on the children's playground, which is next to the road, and the steps to check and plan for the exit, entering the third emergency approach to its collapse. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to provide assistance for possible recovery of medical expenses and the rehabilitation of socially vulnerable and under-secure residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa with complex diseases and the need to plan for the provision of comprehensive medical care for Michalishin, Vitalia and Igor Podopróra, Olesi Kotova and veterans of work, teachers, children of the War of Galina Purple. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to create special jobs for the employment of persons with disabilities. Anatolia Denisenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal extraction of sand in the village of Žihor in the town of Harkova. Olega Kulinić to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the improper conduct of criminal investigation in criminal proceedings No.4201417031000018 of 16 April 2014 as the investigating department of the Rechetil district department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Poltav region. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the legality of the operation of the Society's seed work, with limited responsibility for the Long-Term Agrofirma. Andrija Kota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delay on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the adoption of a decree on "Modifying the issuance of a permit for accommodation, construction of buildings, services, construction of engineering networks and other work within the road lanes". This concludes our consideration of the parliamentary questions. And I'd like to ask the MPs to return to the bill room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. We have a number of important bills today. And there is a proposal for many national MPs to re-vote so that we can change the order of the debate and vote in favour of the laws. Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall who is. And as the deputies come in, I want to say that I am convinced that we need to change the order of Friday’s consideration. Because the format that is provided for in the Rules simply makes it unacceptable and does not allow working conditions for Friday. I'm going to initiate the introduction of a bill so that we and the "hour of questions to the government" and that we read the questions on the second part on Friday, not on the first, but on the first part of the draft. But we need to make changes to the Rules. We can only make any change now by voting. We have a number of important drafts, and I very much ask our deputies to consolidate and try to move on to the drafts now. Is there room support, company? I ask you to enter who is in the towers so that we can vote on these changes. Dear colleagues, there will be a signal vote now. If we have votes to work with, we'll go over to the bill and cancel the break, but if we don't have votes, we'll be under the Rules, we'll take a break, and then we'll talk to the MPs. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please, one minute, Oleg Easy offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! If there is the good will of the hall to work without interruption, I don't think we should put this question to the vote. No one would object to working without interruption, so let's start working and consider the bills. Social laws, such as the Law 2676 on Automated Subsidies, apply to 14 million Ukrainian citizens. Today, less than 15 percent took advantage of the right to grant housing services if we vote on this law today, people will automatically receive subsidies without completing any documents. Another very important law that allows women 55 years of age to retire. There is no man in this room who denies these laws. So let's not vote, let's not take a break, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. There is a technical problem that if there are no votes in the voting room, we will not be able to vote on any of those important bills. It's a very simple thing. And, dear colleagues, so we will determine if there are votes in the room if there is a potential in the room for us to make decisions, we will move on to making decisions if there are no votes in the room to make decisions, there is no point in breaking the rules. And so, dear fellows, once again I ask those who are in the towers to enter the hall. If there's at least 220 at c, at least 220, we can expect it to work, but if we don't even have 220 we won't be able to deal with the issues. Dear colleagues! Are all those who are in the watchtowers approached? So I'm asking you to prepare for the signal vote. I'm asking all national deputies to take up jobs. Let's take a signal vote so that we can see clearly what the quantity, the green button, the pro-vote button is, so that we can see what the potential is in the hall. Please come in, who hasn't come in yet. Ready for the factions, right? So I ask you to prepare for the vote. We're voting with the green button, the pros button. I'm asking you to make a signal vote, and I'm asking all the MPs to vote. Please vote. Vote, vote yes. [[12:09:26]] For 190 By factions, please turn on. Deputies are good. Again, again, please. People's deputies, please, once again, I very much ask that we see a clear figure, vote in favour. Yes. Is anyone else coming in or is everyone in the room? All of them. Please re-vote. Please take part. Please vote. [[12:10:14]] For-200 200 deputies, can we work, what is the general sense? Then there's an offer to work all the time. Is there a deal? Then we start ours, continue our work without interruption. Let's go to the draft bill on the first reading of 2676, the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. There is a request from the authors to vote on the bill, to consider the reduced procedure. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please proceed to the summary procedure. [[12:11:06]] For a hundred and Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Passes the word to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u89	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. The essence of the bill is very simple: automatic accounting of housing subsidies. If you go to social services and retirement funds today, you'll see huge numbers of older people who usually go and ask them to give advice on how to get, fill out papers to get this grant. Today, 14 million Ukrainian citizens are entitled to housing subsidies. Less than 15 percent of those who have the right to do so have made real use of it. Moreover, many people do not fill in the grant documents because it says that if, God forbid, they are wrong, they have to pay twice as much back as they have. Therefore, the team of authors — Ludmila Denisova, Oleg Lasko, Viktor Halasyuk, Oleg Berezuk and other representatives of other factions, all factions of the coalition, Igor Kononenko and other colleagues, sorry, who he did not mention, there were a lot of authors -- signed a bill that foresees automatic receipts. In the Pension Fund, in the Social Fund. the social fund is all pensioners and invalids, they don't need to fill out any papers. They took data from the Pension Fund, took data from the Social Services Department, and gave people a grant. And with a machine of 14 million people, I emphasize, this law applies to 14 million Ukrainian citizens, and they automatically took and accounted for this subsidy. And they took off a lot of questions. Because today there are 25 billion dollars in the budget to pay subsidies, and millions of people really don't use them because they can't fill out these papers. So I propose that this law be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u90	The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u91	Oleg Kulinic, MP of Rebirth, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Head, distinguished voters, I would like to support my colleague Oleg Lacha. Indeed, today this is a huge problem with the formulation of subsidies. This is especially true of the elderly, the elderly, who are unable to cope with the bureaucratic burden and stand in line and defend their rights as officials. That's why my colleagues and I registered two alternative bills. After the committee discussion, however, we made decisions and united them. So my colleagues and I are withdrawing our signatures under bill 2676-1 for the benefit of 2676. But there is only one problem that I would like to highlight. Today, there is a huge problem with the fine to charge subsidies. Only 15 percent of citizens have filled out these documents without error. This means that an official in the region thinks a mistake is conscious, and a person will have to return a subsidy to the State on a double scale. Because there are no criteria for the definition of consciousness or unconsciousness. Therefore, the relevant decision leaves considerable room for the official to manipulate, and the government must immediately amend the decision to ensure that people are protected when documenting the subsidy. So, dear fellows, I ask you to support the amended bill 2676 on the basis of both, and as a whole, and to simplify the process of developing subsidies for people today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u92	The co-report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Babak Alona Valeriyevn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u93	The honourable national deputies, the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Housing reviewed both drafts at its meeting, and Bill No. 2676 drafted and Bill 2676-1. And in fact, both those bills are aimed at simplifying the procedure for pensioners and disabled people. The committee certainly supported this idea, but first the proposals that were made after it was implemented in the bills, please let's say, imperfect, but after drafting the bills are such that they can be absolutely supported today both on the basis and in general. What is actually proposed in this bill? Allowing single pensioners and disabled persons without recourse to social protection services to receive, allowing them to deal with their personal affairs with social protection services for the purpose of turning to the Pension Fund and receiving information automatically. And if a person has the right to receive subsidies, he will be assigned such a grant. What's also important in this bill is that it's about single pensioners and disabled people. Because we all realize that today’s subsidy program is working on the family. Therefore, for those who are employed or have families, automatic pension information is available to them, but information on family members, their income, should be provided. But the mechanism is greatly simplified for single people who already have fixed income. So the committee decided to support it. And in fact, the People's MP Kulinic has co-authored the amended bill 2676, and so we propose to support the bill for registration number 2676 worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u94	Please give me 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u95	and reject the bill under registration number 2676-1. I would like you to support the MPs as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Please sign in: two for, two against. Jemetz Leonid Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Ludmila Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u98	Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u99	This is a very important bill that applies to these people, who are pensioners and disabled, who live separately with their families. They're not going anywhere. They will be assigned this grant according to the data contained in the Pension Fund and the Social Security Authority and that they will receive such assistance from the State. This applies to all families where there is a pensioner or a disabled person or a pensioner and a disabled person. And they will be assigned to them only on application and income support. You don't have to count cows, dogs, animals. There you go. You drink milk or you sell it. This will be a tremendous support for people. And so I'm going to propose a technical amendment, and this is the Supreme Council's Legal Authority that concluded that in the text of part one, the word "state" should be replaced by the word "executive." This means that an appointment without a person’s being contacted on the basis of information to other executive authorities. I very much ask you to support this bill as a whole. People will be very grateful to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u100	Thank you. John Kirilenko conveys the word Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u101	Dear friends! It's very hard to remember how many times you and I have heard an explanation of how easy it will be to assign subsidies. That it's going to be automatic. That raising tariffs will not affect the poor. What matters most is that the rich will pay. You and I were in the regions that week. You all heard that not 15 percent had been filled, but 15 percent of the government’s executive service, which tested and managed only to rework the local authorities. Because in the same Nicopol in the Dnipropetrov region, they told us that the Ministry server of the month didn't work or accept these applications. Secondly, it really takes no higher education to fill it, and it was the minister who told us. I thank the Supreme Council for having set up a task force on tariffs with you and one of the departments of this task force was the working group on the committee of Ludmila Denisovova. We've been through all the difficult issues since day one, we've been asking the minister. Sadly, though, there was no response during the month. And as a result, when a 90-year-old grandmother comes out of her head, the director of Nicole's gas, I ask her, "What happened?'," she says, "Pension 940. Do you see the bill? 1200 for gas." I ask him, "Will you turn it off?" He said, "I owe it to her to turn it off. And it's none of my business that she hasn't got a grant yet. " And that's why 100 percent of the "Paternity" faction supports that people who have already received a grant should receive an automatic grant. But I mean, most importantly, and we've talked to you here many times, I need to review tariffs, they have to be economically sound, not just named from the sky. And a working group of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u102	Please finish 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u103	The tariffs should be reviewed, pensions must be indexed, wages must be put in order for subsidies to be filled, the government should have done so two months ago. The law must be adopted, supported, and assisted during this difficult time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Debenkov, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u105	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, of course, this bill is very important to the socially vulnerable segments of the population, such as pensioners and persons with disabilities. It is important to note, however, that previous speakers have indicated that the actual complexity of the accrual conditions has resulted in the receipt of the corresponding subsidies. Have you previously voted in favour of increasing housing and utilities, except for tax differences? Have you followed the IMF's requirements before? The bill, which was called the so-called markers when the Prime Minister needed to be voted on, was in plenary yesterday. Because the IMF bills were important. Today, the time of the government, it's not even there. Didn't you cancel your tax differences? We understand that this is all an act of your authority. But in turn, we understand that this affects the interests of 14 million socially protected segments of the population. These are our pensioners, these are our people with disabilities who are receiving pensions and social benefits whose purchasing capacity has already decreased due to the 3-fold devaluation of the national currency, which has also occurred without your fault. The Opposition Block faction takes a responsible position on this issue. We will support these legislative initiatives. And in order to mitigate these negative consequences of this short-sighted, reckless policy of the current authorities. And, of course, it is our duty to grant such socially vulnerable groups. And of course, people need to see and know who is voting for these bills and who is not. The coalition should be here, not saying what the coalition is offering. We'll see how she votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u106	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich gives the word to Oleg Lashkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, the issue of protecting Ukrainian citizens, raising their standard of living is not a matter of coalition or opposition. This is a matter of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian President. This is a matter of local authorities. And when it comes to helping 14 million people get a proper grant, it is not to be divided into parties and coalitions or opposition, but to take a vote together! Because it's the same for people, whether you're in coalition or opposition. When a person has a pension of 1,200 dollars and he has to pay 1,400 dollars for gas. Did any of you fill out the grant papers? There's such a font size that the retiree won't read it or see it. And it's very subtlely written: if they didn't properly form a subsidy, then twice as much should be returned. That's why people are afraid to go, to form a subsidy, because they think that, God forbid, they've got something wrong, they're going to take away the pension tomorrow, they're going to sell the cow, and they're going to burn the house up, and they're going to move out of the house. So the bill that we made with you allows 14 million Ukrainian people who have the right to receive housing subsidies automatically to receive these subsidies. So that the 25 billion dollars that the budget provides for grants to be implemented so that the person who receives a modest pension will have a meager salary so that it doesn't throw away all this pension and pay for housing services. I remind you, yesterday the Ukrainian Parliament passed a law protecting Ukrainian military personnel, not including the salaries of the military in the total income of the family that gives the right to receive the grant. Today, we're adopting a new social, mutual law that we're going to pass, and we're going to use the machine to get housing subsidies. I can't imagine there being a single MP in this room who won't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Mikhail Golovko. And while Mikhailo Golovko is going to the rostrum, I invite all the deputies who are in the parliament walls to come into the hall, in a minute, the vote will begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u109	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, U.K.A. Freedom. A very important law and a very correct one. And our political power will vote for it and support it. But I have a question: Is it not a contractor, or is it a conscious speculation? Why was such an important bill put on Friday, knowing that there were no deputies in the session room? There is a clear threat of failure. I have a question for the coalition. Dear coalitions, tell me, what happens to your discipline? Why aren't there half the factions from Peter Dustenk's Block, the People's Front, Self-Help and Fatherland, and so on? And you figure out how many of your deputies there are. And that's why it's a clear threat to the collapse of important bills. Take care of your own discipline. What do you take the money for? You get paid, you go to work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u110	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys! Relationships can be clarified in the gymnasium. This is the way to try to break the law. I ask you very much to calm down, to take up your jobs. I ask the MPs to take up their jobs and not to interrupt the consideration of an important bill. I would very much ask if there is a willingness to vote in speeches to be correct, to support the bill, not to break it down. Please, one minute from the Peter Dust Block and we'll go to the vote. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u111	Of course, an important law and we will give all the votes in order to support it. The only thing we will have is a request if, for some reason, there are not enough votes due to the absence of national MPs, we ask that we complete the consideration of these bills and vote on these bills on the day when such votes are needed. We don't have the right to leave our disabled pensioners alone with that inadequacy law. We must give them the opportunity to receive these subsidies, they have earned it by their work, they have earned it by their patience, they have earned it, and they have chosen this Parliament for it. If this Parliament is unable to protect an ordinary Ukrainian citizen, this Parliament does not have the right to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u112	Thank you. Every MP has the right to impose his powers at any time. And, dear fellows, I ask you not to go out, but to enter the hall, my fellow believers. We have an extremely important bill, so I'm going to have to vote in a signal vote first. I'm asking you to mobilize everyone. And the respectable society, there's an offer, we have a committee decision to take as a basis. Attention! And there's a proposal for us to vote in general with Denise's amendment. There's a general agreement. That's why I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Is everyone in the room? I'll put it to a vote, first the signal. Signal vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Services Act 2676 as a basis and as a whole, as amended by Deputy Denisovova. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[12:31:34]] For 225 Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your Honor, do you think if you scream all together, the session will go faster? You don't think so, do you? So I ask you not to scream, to calm down, to take up jobs. Pick up the phone, call a friend who's next door, invite him to the hall. And it's going to be much more productive than voting in the room. Voting in the hall is not as good as fighting. That's what the teacher taught everyone in school. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act 2676 as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of the Denisov deputy. Please support on the basis of a total of 2676. Please vote. [[12:32:52]] For 223 Dear colleagues! I was talking about responsibility. We will now return to the vote. But I ask you very much to mobilize and concentrate, my dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'd like the factions to show you the vote. And please enter the Chamber of Deputies who are not in the Hall. Please. I'm asking you to come into the hall, who's in the towers, who's in the cafeteria, please come into the hall. It's a question of our discipline, our society, and our responsibility and our approach to work that we can break important bills. I'm asking you to come into the hall. We're going to vote for the return. Please come into the hall. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 2676. Please support the offer to return to consideration. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:34:20]] For 229 Thank you for your support. So now I am voting again on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act (2676) on the basis of, and in general, Denisov's amendments. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote 2676. [[12:34:57]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. Please don't split up. Now, according to the Rules, we have a day-to-day bill. And that's why I'm turning it on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Society, we have several projects to put into the agenda that he announced in the hall. So I'm going to put each bill separately into the agenda so that there can be an objective vote. First. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities to ensure the continuity of licensing and the protection of the economic interests of the State, by Halasyuk, 2086a. Please, 30 seconds to the bill's author, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, please don't leave the hall, it's a very important law. If we don't put it on the agenda as a whole right now, it's going to be the collapse of the licensing theme.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u114	Thank you. So I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of activities of agricultural activities 2086a. Please vote, please support. [[12:36:37]] For 208 The decision is not made. The next draft of the Act on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on the characteristics of the offences and on the arrest of property that is used as evidence in the form of goods or products that are perishable rapidly, 2011a. Today, the Deputy Defence Minister, speaking out, stressed the importance for the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the bill was included and considered. Please, 30 seconds, the author of the Pashinsky bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, it takes at least 100 hours for a fighter pilot to be properly trained. That's 300 tons of aviation kerosene. In order for our fighting parts to be trained and equipped with combat, we must spend a thousand tons of diesel fuel and fuel. We have today a deficit in the Ministry of Defense's budget of about seven billion dollars. In order to offset this deficit in part, we have come up with an initiative, the arrested fuel of Kurchenka by the State Company of UNODC to transmit on a free basis to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. And I call on all those who are now on the TV channel of Ljowczyn and Furtash and Zacharychenka with foam at the mouth to protect this saucer. Let us vote, let us raise the strength of our army and let us take our duties seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u116	Thank you. I am voting on the agenda of the draft Act amending the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015 2011a. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[12:38:51]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have been asked once again by the 2086a authors to put to the vote again, because both Kseniya Llapina and the author are stressing the importance of this bill. I have the right, according to the Rules, to re-examine the inclusion in the agenda of the session. So at the request of the authors, I would like to ask again to vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the 2086a session. Do you have a deal? So I'm betting on getting into the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of economic activities 2086a. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[12:39:58]] For-188. Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. We haven't been able to get into the daytime. And now, according to our work regulations, we're moving on to. Come on, 30 seconds, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I have a request for an order to have one of the first drafts for the sessional Tuesday, and we'll be there by July 1st. And I want to pay attention to the government, I thank Kseniya Liapinius for her active position, but we're moving the term because the government hasn't met all the requirements necessary for the implementation of this bill in three months. 40 licenses are not prepared. I ask the Prime Minister to conduct them all properly through Kabmin so that they do not delay the introduction of the bill. And we have to back up because we're protecting business with you. Please give a protocol commission to include us in the agenda and consider Tuesday for the sessional week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Two factions have come to the Presidency: the People's Front factions and the Radical Party faction of Lalashka for a break under the Rules. But they agree instead of taking a break for a three - minute statement from the rostrum. Please, three minutes. Who's going to announce? Pashinski, please, Sergey Pashinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, what just happened in the hall is the disgrace of Parliament, the shame of our coalition. Unfortunately, we have seen once again that the influences of the oligarchs — chickens, firmas, lionesses — as they were in Ukrainian politics, remain. The People's Front faction is now in its workplace. We support all the coalition bills, but what we've just seen is simply a challenge to our coalition. We demand that on the following Tuesday the first order of the day should be laws to increase the security, including the one that has just failed. We demand the coalition, the factions of our partner-full visit to parliament and the voting for agreed bills. Today the job is broken, unfortunately, and we don't see any more opportunities to participate in this show. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I have given the floor to call a recess. Please give me the same request from two factions -- I'll give you three minutes just as much as I gave you the previous one. Please, Chumak, one minute. And then let's move on to the following issues. Chunk is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! We will no doubt support all national security and defence laws. Including those bills that will increase the supply of oil to our Armed Forces. But we have great doubts about this. Doubts of what? It's that these petroleum products actually exist. That's why I think it's better. So I think it's better on this issue to make a temporary commission of inquiry that will check the availability of these petroleum products, and then we'll decide how we can pass them on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, there will be no more speeches. On a daily basis, there are bills for re-examination with proposals by the President of Ukraine. But if the People's Front leaves the Hall, it's gonna be hard for us to ask any questions. So with your permission, I'm going to re-set whether we have the votes to continue our work, because otherwise it's going to look wrong. And I ask my colleagues to prepare now for a signal vote so that we know if there is any potential in this room to go to the President's Bills. I'm asking you to vote "yes" in a signal vote. I'm asking you to prepare for the signal vote, and I'm asking you to vote. I ask for a vote, and please take part in this vote. Please give me a signal vote. Vote. [[12:45:41]] For-170. Unfortunately, there is not enough room for us to continue our voting. So we move on to the next position of order of the day. A statement by the deputies, where all those who wish to speak now will have the opportunity to do so and I give the word to Vice-Speaker Oksani Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda of the "Variance" section. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to focus on those who wish to speak at the Miscellaneous, the recording will now be held. I'd like you to sign up for the various shows. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Victoria Ptašnik, "Unification" Self-help. National MP Oleg Berezuk, "Unification" Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the horrors we have experienced in this life, when we become deputies in this Parliament, we begin to raise ourselves as true parliamentarians. And yesterday was a sad occasion when the parliamentarian was the cause of the spread of shameful, false information, thereby demeaning the Self-Help faction, thereby humiliating Parliament. But today the same MP, Sergey Visatsky, publicly and honestly apologized and provided objective information about what he wrote yesterday. This is the birthplace of a true parliamentary style of work — objectivity, honesty, and truthfulness. We are grateful for this and we warn everyone else that we will follow the rules of order, of honesty, according to the law in force. And Parliament must become that body that is the opposite and the executive power and the presidential administration. But the opposite is for the development of the country, for the trust of our people to be higher, and the result to be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Rudik, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u126	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila Kamyanka, Cherkas region Dear colleagues, whenever I'm a national MP, I'm trying to make inquiries to senior officials of the country, but under some strange coincidence after my question Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk, to whom you remember, I received the answer: "Gobble," -- all of my attempts to speak get a number that doesn't allow it. I'm shocked at what I've been able to do right now. Taking this opportunity, I'd like to ask you two questions, people, and I'd like to consider these statements or questions official for me to get a 10-day answer to them. The first involved Arsenia Petrovich Yatzenuk and the attempt or absence of open competitions for public enterprises. Today, we have two state-owned enterprises: the Ukrainian National Food and Agriculture Corporation, Ukrispirt, where the competitions were opened, but where the results of these competitions were canceled. We have today's Cruise Station, we have the NEC Krennergo, Pat Centrenergo, Concert RRT. And this list can be continued, where no competitions have yet been held. It's a campaign. I'd like to be informed by a 10-day deadline as a national deputy when there are competitions for these state-owned and other enterprises. And we're going to find out where those mega-mega-managers with the world name that are ready to fill the budget today. My next request concerns the law enforcement system. I'm not the first to address the Minister of Internal Affairs, I'm not the first to address the law enforcement system, the prosecutor's office to investigate a large number of crimes, particularly in the Cherkas region, because I represent the Church. Today, I would like to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs and the head of the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Kožemyakin, to invite the following information, as well as the heads of the Regional Units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Cherkas region, to work in their positions with Yanukovich in the same positions. To this day, unfortunately, we are seeing a situation in which many workers continue to be ruled by no matter what. So I'm asking for this information from all over the Cherkas region. The same thing I would like to know about the number of crimes that are detected or undiscovered in areas of the Cherkas region. Because we have a positive experience of Georgia, we have today the head of the Odessa district administration, who, as President, has demonstrated how from 90,000, 75,000 to 30, we can double, by one and a half, almost 2.5 times significantly improve the level of fighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u127	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Kodolu, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u128	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. My speech will refer to the right of families of deceased military personnel to travel free of charge. In accordance with the Amendments and Recognition Act of Ukraine, some Ukrainian legislation since December 27, 2014, number 76/8, the right of individual categories of citizens to travel free of charge has been removed. In particular, this law has removed legislation that guaranteed members of families of deceased military personnel the right to travel free of charge. On the basis of this, carriers refuse to provide free passage for family members who have died. The response given by the Ministry of Social Policy to my parliamentary appeal states that members of families of deceased military personnel can exercise their right to travel free of charge by city and suburban transport on the basis of a pension certificate. However, a large number of family members of deceased military personnel are not pensioners of age. In addition, on the hotline of the Cabinet of Ministers, claimants are informed that family members continue to use their assigned benefits for free passage. But when asked to explain what legislation regulates this question, the applicants did not receive an answer. However, they were advised to contact local authorities. In particular, the Montenegrin District Administration is responsible for this issue and refers to the provisions of the Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The law provides for the right of parents of military personnel who have died or died or who have been missing during military service to exercise the right to travel free of charge in all forms of urban passenger transport. They are also entitled to a 50 percent discount when using intercity rail, air transport. Thus, the authorities arbitrarily treat legislation regarding the right of family members to free passage. In view of the foregoing, I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to explain how the rights of parents and families of military personnel who have died or died or lost their lives during the course of the military service to travel free of charge through all types of urban passenger transport, railway suburban connections, and buses on the suburban routes. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kaplin, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! It was an extremely difficult week in the work of the Supreme Council. It was an incredibly difficult week in the struggle of the common people for their rights. During the week, virtually everyone’s leaders, with the exception of professional organizations throughout the country, came together and finally came to Parliament with their demands. Whatever was going on, they wouldn't let the board of consent, they wouldn't let it on the balcony, they wouldn't let it into the bed. The need for such a meeting was ignored. Trade unions came with specific requirements. First. Vote laws that apply to tariff cuts. And for that, there are absolutely all the prerequisites! The other one. To vote against the disgraceful taxation of pensions for pensioners! More specifically, the confiscation of part of the pension. Confiscation for what?Oh, my God! What did Ukrainian pensioners do, and why do they have to take part of their pension?Oh, my God! They built factories, they built factories, they survived two revolutions, they survive war, they send their grandchildren to war! Endorsing this power! Why do they have to take part of their pension? And the last. Index pensions and salaries for ordinary citizens. However, none of these requirements have been met. And I'll spend the next week in the regions. With the union leaders and I, we will go to every corner of the country, we will get the mobilization of millions of Ukrainians in order, through protest, to force the Supreme Council of Ukraine to listen to a simple Ukrainian citizen. If such actions are not carried out, if our demands are not met by the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will stop the entire country for a while! We will strive through strikes to solve the problems of ordinary Ukrainian citizens! Similarly, we demand the adoption of the Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions. Dozens of national deputies have claimed the crimes of individual government officials, the crimes of prime ministers, the crimes of Ukrainian national deputies! However, none of these matters have been fully handled by the authorities! This means the defolt power structures of our state. If these actions are not carried out, then we have no choice but to unite ourselves into trade unions, social organizations, volunteers, millions of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, as well as protests, when hundreds of thousands of people go to the Supreme Council, to demand its conversion. Form a national movement of ordinary people and go to parliamentary elections. Draw a picture of political parties! Make a real illustration of the people’s deputies and officials and make a real, real reintroduction of power. And finally meet the requirements of Maidan, realize the values and ideals of Maidan, and build a real new Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u131	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u132	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people, before yesterday, important bills on parliamentary ethics, on personal voting, on buttoning in particular were discussed in this room. From this rostrum, I spoke about the important hypocrisy that exists in the Supreme Council when faction leaders speak and talk about the importance of parliamentary ethics, they speak out against buttoning, but there are people in factions who don't go to the committees who declare 10,000 dollars in a statement of income, 50,000 dollars, but they go to the Lexus, who knock. Well, that's hypocrisy I've been paying attention to. Unfortunately, even though we had questions about MP ethics at the time, some of the colleagues in the hall decided to break the ethics and began to beat me up and didn't hear what I was saying. And it seemed to someone that I had said that in every faction of the coalition there are buttons at the moment. I would now like to publicly qualify for my position, because I am always used to being responsible for what I have said. So I'm specifying for those who then interrupted me and didn't hear or realize that there are currently no buttons in the two factions of the coalition -- Self-help and the Parenthood Party. So please don't interrupt and listen until the end. Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u133	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u134	I'm sorry, the Radical Party has been fixed. This is an honest movement. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, don't interrupt. Thank you. Now it's about MP ethics. But I am stressing the importance of the MP's ethics. Because, you know, resentment is righteous, but hypocrisy continues again, and I report hypocrisy again. Right now, voting was very important in the bill. Well, the subsidy bill went through four times just because Freedom gave its six votes, 100 percent of our deputies, it wouldn't have gone through without it. And now for the last vote, which was an important bill, to ensure the continuity of licensing and the protection of the economic interests of the state, of colleague Halasyuk, in fact, and of other national MPs. This is how I draw the attention of our television audiences and listeners to the hypocrisy that are present in this room from the faction of the coalition. I'm going to report, I've calculated which members of which factions were absent during this vote, which took 188 votes. "The People's Front" – 17 deputies, BP – 50 deputies, Self-Help – 6 deputies, Fatherland – 8 deputies, our heroine Saucenko I certainly don't count, Radical Party – 1 MP. So this is about the real situation in our Parliament. When it comes to voting, they tell the truth, but they themselves are not hypocritical. I urge all MPs to speak the truth always and forget hypocrisy at last. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Tetjan Bachteev, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, on the eve of a medical worker’s day, I have always been happy to congratulate my colleagues on the medical worker’s holiday. Unfortunately, however, there is nothing to be happy about this year. And I don't want to celebrate, I want to cry. It's a holiday with tears in its eyes. Because there has not been such an irresponsible, irresponsible, unprincipled attitude towards medicine as today, in all years of independence in Ukraine. During the six months of this year, Minhvod has not produced a single tender, nor purchased a single pill, nor purchased a single vaccine. This is no longer just an official offence, it is a criminal offence against the Ukrainian people. All that's being used in hospitals today is past balances, it's humanitarian aid. This irresponsibility has led to 42 million people living in Ukraine today, and 10 million more of us. Today, apart from the lack of medication, treatment facilities are completely unfunded, even under protected articles. Any, even basic medical procedure is financed only by the patient. And if the patient doesn't have money, he's doomed. I remind you that 80 people die every hour in Ukraine, and 1 child dies every 2 hours. We have 500,000 tuberculosis patients, over 1 million cancer patients, over 1.5 million diabetes mellitus, more than 30,000 HIV and AIDS patients, and none of them are today provided with a government programme. And when our Government finally realizes that it is impossible to feed a patient for four bracelets, it is not possible to treat 10 bracelets of the sick person. A simple chapel costs at least 100 bracelets. Because of the irresponsible activities of the ILO, we experience tragedies every day. In January, in Mariupola, a child who weighed 4 kilograms (2 kg) died of exhaustion. In February, a four-year-old girl died in the Vinny region of the flu, lived in a village, and was simply not hospitalized. For a month in Kiev, a man died of a heart attack for 57 years, and the medics came when he was still alive, but they had no stimulants or drugs to save him. In Odessa today, there are no serums left of rabies and tetanus, and patients with animal bites simply have to pray. Even in the capital city of Kiev, there is no soon-to-be-recovery, no oxygen, no dexamethasone that often saves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u137	Finish up, please. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u138	And of course, I sincerely want us all to bow low to 21 million health workers, nurses, nurses, doctors and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy Igor Shurma, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u140	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honorary citizens of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will be presented to the Supreme Council for consideration with a draft Ukrainian Law (No. 1567). The main objective of this bill is to strengthen State control over property owned by enterprises that are state-owned and are not subject to privatization. However, in spite of this, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine has developed a draft of the Cabinet of Ministers regulation, which, by its contents, is in total contravention not only of the main purpose of the bill but also of common sense. The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade has identified a list of state-owned enterprises that are subject to conversion to public stock companies, 100 percent of which are owned by the State. The list includes 86 state-owned enterprises, including those producing weapons, military technology, companies engaged in important scientific developments, and enterprises that carry out activities that should be located exclusively in the sphere of government. For example, Antonov State Enterprise, Ukrenergo National Energy Company, Ukrainian Industrial Property Institute. The inclusion in the list of strategically important subjects of national importance and national security is unacceptable. There is no way to include in the list all the ports of Ukraine, which in the first quarter gave the state a half billion profits. The state doesn't need profit? There's no way to put all the enterprises that belong to the State Space Agency. I don't see how the state-owned Ucrobanprom could have gotten here. In the face of war and a severe economic crisis, there will be no investor in Ukraine, so the state will receive minimal income, and the introduction of a simultaneous restructuring procedure for enterprises that determine the general state of the economy will lead to an economic catastrophe. Such actions pose a threat to national security, and a number of questions arise. First. On the basis of what legislative acts of Mine Economic Development did it have the authority to form the aforementioned list on its own? The other one. Whether there is a legal and economic justification for the need to reorganize the strategically important state-owned enterprises included in this list. Third. To explain the existing conflict between the draft Law 1567 and the Order, for example, there are about 20 enterprises in the list that are not privatized under the bill at all. Therefore, all necessary steps must be taken to ensure transparency. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request and refer it to the Security Council, the defence of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service. I don't know why Lithuanians, proud Lithuanians in their little state, work there, build a state with European values, and when they get Ukrainian citizenship, they read to act in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u141	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka. He was also given the word by the national deputy Kuprienko, so the deadline for the speech was six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Respectable compatriots! On behalf of a powerful faction of the Radical Party, I would like to report to you on what we, members of the Radical Party, have done in the Ukrainian Parliament this week. I'm reporting to you that the Radical Party team you elected to Parliament is working hard to defend your interests. Yesterday -- thank you to all the colleagues who voted -- adopted our law of deputies from the Radical Party faction, which was freed from the payment of the military assembly of military personnel involved in the anti-terrorist operation. Similarly yesterday, Parliament voted a bill of MPs from the Radical Party faction that wages, other salaries of military personnel, are not counted in the total income of the family when it comes to housing subsidies. This provides an opportunity to protect the families of military personnel who today heroically defend our country on the eastern front. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of a bill authored by members of the Radical Party faction, which provides for the automatic collection of housing subsidies. You've seen how you've been going through this discussion today. As a result of this bill, 14 million Ukrainian citizens will be able to automatically receive subsidies, neither pensioners nor disabled persons nor other socially vulnerable categories of citizens will be required to attend appropriate social services in order to qualify for these subsidies. I hope that this bill will immediately be signed by the President and that 14 million Ukrainian citizens, thanks to the law from the members of the Radical Party, will be able to automatically charge subsidies thanks to the support of MPs. Also this week, a bill was passed under the authority of members of the Radical Party, who were exempt from taxation by preschool schools and schools. When the bill is adopted in general, preschool schools and schools will not pay the land tax, pay the property tax. This will result in a significant cost to the maintenance of preschool and school facilities. This is a radical party policy aimed at supporting education, because education is the most important thing our people need. The next bill that we're fighting for is Bill 2068, by Dennis Silantiev and other members of the Radical Party faction, in order to free physical culture and sports from land tax, from paying real estate taxes to enable children, especially from low-income families, to recover, not to drift on genedeliacs. Many things have been done, but not all. Yes, and another very important law that has been passed this week, including by members of the Radical Party faction, is the new Law on Local Elections, which breaks the corrupt election system by Yanukovich, Lukas, and introduces a new open election system for party lists, transparent, real, open party lists without corruption, no bribery, no forgery. These include the radical party's authors who are the authors of his bill. Dear fellow citizens, I have informed you of our faction's work in the current plenary week. But the tasks we set ourselves are much larger. And we're trying to get Parliament to support our initiatives to solve the problems of Ukrainian citizens. In particular, we require the government to submit to Parliament a bill on the indexation of salaries of budgeters and pensioners. Today, when prices for utilities, medicines, food products, millions of Ukrainian citizens are deprived of the ability to live normally. So we demand wage and pension indexes, at least for an inflation index to support at least a little bit of millions of people. The next bill that we require Parliament to consider without delay is a bill that allows women 55 years of age to retire. A bill by the deputy of the Radical Party of Yuri Suhević. This bill was adopted by Parliament as early as January of this year. But unfortunately, the President vetoed it. And so far, this veto has not been overtaken. And usually this bill is put into consideration in the hall on Friday when it is impossible to collect votes. That's why we're demanding the next Tuesday as soon as possible one of the first to consider overcoming the President's veto, overcoming it and allowing Ukrainian women 55 years of age to retire. And we're going to do it. And God sees that we will do everything we can to achieve results. An extremely important question is the return of 15 percent of pensions to working pensioners. We demand that this dragon norm be lifted and that the people who have earned a dollar pension return the 15 percent that they are deprived of today. The Radical Party faction is doing everything to protect the interests of the state and Ukrainian citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u143	Thank you. I invite you to say to Andrew Antonishtak, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u144	Andrew Antonishtak, Peter Dusty Block. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I want to draw your attention to the situation that has arisen in the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service. Too bad there's no Prime Minister now, I wish he could hear me right now. The Libyans were promised that the competition to replace the head of the State Fiscal Service would take place transparently. According to the competition, there will be three candidates, two candidates for the competition and one candidate for 15 national deputies from Lviv. After the interview in Derjani, no one approached the fiscal service. And who was interviewing with the State Fiscal Service? Gena Romanenko, Kaletnikov’s shirt, is still in the square of Lviv. And you know this week, for the first time in 24 years, Lviv was blocked by a state institution, it's a tax service. The tires were on fire in Lviv, 24 years of independence. I don't support wrong actions, but I support entrepreneurs that I've already got. Lviv rose in 2004 and was here in Maidan, Lviv rose during the Tax Revolution, Lviv rose in 2014, and in 2015 the entrepreneurs of Lviv were spittin' in the face. So I say from the deputy corps, from the entrepreneurs of Lviv: we will not allow any paratrooper from Kiev. We call for a public and transparent competition to replace the head of the State Fiscal Service of Lviv, to be held in Lviv, with the participation of public organizations representing business, not chess clubs, with the participation of Lviv district government. And let the honorable ruler come from Kiev, from the State Fiscal Service, not romance and so on, and then we will choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u145	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Ruslan Demczak, "Block of Petra Poroshenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u146	Deputies! People of Ukraine! Yesterday, on our first reading, we no doubt passed the historic bill (2831-3) "The Local Elections." We voted in favour of the European democratic system of local elections, with transparent procedures and with open names of candidates, and the elimination of the lawlessness of local princes. But so far these positive changes have discredited the uncertainty felt by citizens in places. They do not have an answer to the question whether there will be delegated powers to provide basic administrative services to local governments, whether corruption in this area will finally be overcome, which will ensure the rule of law on the streets, and whether municipal work will be carried out as a service in local governments. Will it really not be professional and politically involved? What laws must be adopted first? A second reading is being prepared about serving in the local authorities. With regard to amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the extension of authority of local self-government and the optimization of the provision of administrative services, it has been included in the order of day 16.06 but has not been considered. A second reading is being prepared for the police, which is worth the local self - government. And especially about the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. We need to make sure that the October elections are already held in united territorial communities. We have to push it, and you and I have to explain that decentralization is a practical and useful thing. Crowds will be richer, more able to solve the problems of having resources, opportunities, and powers that they do not yet know. Only by quickly adopting the entire package needed to start the process of decentralization of laws will we have the right to talk about real gains towards decentralization, about the development of active local communities and Ukraine as a whole. By the end of this session, by July 16, the Supreme Council is simply obliged to adopt these bills, all the more so as we have a consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u147	Thank you. People's MP Medunica, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u148	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Today's talk will be about the problem of transporting the Suma region to other regions of Ukraine. So it happened that the Skruzalznica, as a result of its discriminatory policy, cancelled a large number of trains heading from Sum to other regions of Ukraine. Especially the canceled trains, the Kharkiv-Lviv trains and the Harkiv-Uzhgrad trains, which could have connected the region with almost a million people in the Western Ukraine. As a result of the loss of temporarily Crimean resorts, most of the region's population travels to West Ukraine now, leaving money in the state. But it is extremely difficult to do so because there is no direct railway connection. And most of those who want to go to Western Ukraine are forced to be in Kiev all day to move from Kiev to trains heading for Western Ukraine and vice versa. Today, a group of national deputies handed over a message to the minister of infrastructure. And we call on the Ministry to take measures to ensure that such a direct railway connection between the region and almost a million people, more than a million people, is established. One problem, these are the roads in the region. There is already an appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the capital repair of the Kiev-Suma road. Vasil Vasilovich Omelchenko is here in the hall. He knows that this is also a problem in the south of Montenegro. Because if this road is not repaired capitalally, there will be no proper connection with the capital of the southern Chernigian region and the entire Sumské region. We are well aware that the funds that the European Union has now provided will go to reconstruction of the roads in the Prikarpat region. The reconstruction of the road, the capital reconstruction of the road of Lviv – Ivano-Frankivsk via Bibrek, has already begun. We hope that next year the government will find ways to capitalize on the Kiev-Assemblies-Sums road and thus secure transport connections with more than 1.5 million people will be established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u149	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the statement of National Deputy Andrija Lozov, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u150	"The tears flowing through the wrinkles. And my mother prays, "Let her eat a little bit more," says Andry Podlužno. I am very hurt and ashamed to see that today the mothers of those heroes who are protecting their country in the East have been caring for the President's Administration for 26 days a day. These are the mothers of the 25th Airborne Brigade, the 17th Brigade of the Armed Forces, the 93rd legendary, the 95th, the 80s, the Idar, the Tornado, the volunteer Ukrainian Corps. They're not even allowed in the parking lot of the President's Administration. I would ask who has the opportunity to contact Peter Alexiovich. The mothers of those who protect you, Mr. President, have been waiting for 26 days. Next. We're having a war today. And a painful and violent situation is what happens to the Impulse plant. I've spoken on this before. The only enterprise that manufactures specialty today in Ukraine that is so needed on the front. What's going on? The general manager of the Funeral Company, against whom the S.B.U. and the military prosecutor have already filed a criminal case, continues to rob the company. I've got a guy named Sparuk, a former director, who. So it's fixed and it's going on now, 800,000 people have looted state property and ripped it off during the war -- during the war! - broke the state defense order. And a lawyer who liquidates a special division that is artificially bankrupt in order to rob and cut a business has been appointed a lawyer who is now on trial and hiding from a military committee. I'd like to ask the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, all the power to address this situation and not allow the enterprise to be destroyed. Next. It is well known that patriot MPs continue to collect signatures for the resignation of Attorney General Shokin, who is responsible for the escape of one of the pillars of Yanukovic's regime – Kljeva, who reprisals patriots who have conspired with regional misdeeds and today allows them to be free, allowing them to preserve what they have stolen and financed subversive anti-Ukraine activities. I'm very ashamed to hear from many deputies that we're also behind Shokin's resignation, but we won't sign because we're afraid. Damn you to be a member of the Supreme Council if you're afraid. The Radical Party, Self-Help, Freedom, Ukrop was fully signed for Shokin's resignation, which represents a system that 24 years of law enforcement turned into a law-enforcement facility that engaged exclusively in business, lobbyism and politics. How Shockin today threatens the leader of our faction by arresting me, Moses and Linc. Let him arrest me, I'll definitely sit down less than Shockin is gonna be a Henprosecutor and Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u151	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Volodymyr Melnick, "Block of Peter Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u152	Dear Chairman, honourable deputies, today the most painful issue of Ukrainian citizens is a sharp increase in tariffs, especially for gas. The warmth of the people is essential. People who are accustomed to using gas can't adapt to their use without it, because it's very difficult to find a replacement for it. The Dignity Revolution took place in our country. The Ukrainians had great hope for supporting these historical events, changes in the leadership of the state. They realize that we are in great trouble, helping out as much as they can. But the Ukrainians cannot understand why the gas - extracting state does not afford it at a cheap price. But for many years the opposition has always criticized this authority, including today’s government members, leaders of today’s factions, and today they cannot give a clear answer to the question why. If the Cabinet of Ministers wants to implement reforms, it should understand that we need to implement European quality standards, because today's subsidy mechanism is just a distraction from high tariffs and budget spending rather than a step towards reforming the state. If only the price of gas had risen sharply, that would have been the half price. Look what happens to the prices of drugs, I'm not talking about the ones that were bought abroad. What is done with self - manufactured drugs that do not need to be purchased in foreign currency? Although the dollar has made more than 80 percent of the population poor. Our pensioners are the most offended in the cities — our parents, the elderly, the sick, the many - child families. For them there is a sharp rise in the price of gas, and this is the increase in all tariffs on utilities, for medicine, which is a great disaster. I'm not talking about food anymore, that's another topic. And if we take our villages, where 70 percent of the pensioners live, the question arises how they live when pensions are scarce and milk, meat, other agricultural products they produce, are devalued and are taken at the lowest price. Here's an example. Farmers have $2.50 a liter of milk, and it is worth nine dollars or more in the store. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the government, please tell us how to live or even survive. Have you considered whether they will uphold authority or respect their chosen ones? Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished government officials, me and all the people of our country would like to hear the answers to these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u153	Thank you. Welcome to Irina Sisoyenko, "self-help" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u154	I want to speak to all the medical professionals in Ukraine today. On the eve of your professional holiday, allow me to welcome you to the Medical Officer’s Day. Throughout the world, a doctor’s profession is one of the most humane and important. And that, indeed, is true, for the health and life of our people are the greatest value of our nation. Human health depends to a large extent on the profession, experience, and order of physicians, their ability to provide medical care at the proper time. Today, more than 200,000 doctors work in Ukraine. But we should not forget that our health today is also worth the number of health - care workers — nurses. There are more than 450,000 in Ukraine. Experts say that 70 to 80 percent of the patient’s recovery rate depends on the work of a regular nurse. The stress on one nurse in Ukraine was threefold higher compared to that of a European nurse. At the same time, an average nurse in Ukraine serves more than 30 patients on the day when. As in Europe, the same nurse is serving 10 patients. Changes in society, European integration processes are giving the state new challenges in the area of health care to the population. And the important link of this help is the nursery itself. So without reforming it, there is no way to change the health system. The State has undertaken to provide and provide social assistance to all medical and pharmaceutical workers. But does the State properly fulfill its obligations? The rights of nurses are defined in article 77 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Health Legislation. One such right is the right to work properly. I think he's the main one. Sadly, today our nurses are in a difficult situation. They have neither financial nor social support. The worst financial situation. The salary of a younger nurse in Ukraine is $1,218. A little more is received by a nurse in the operating room, about 1,500 bucks. The older nurse gets 2,000 bucks. At the same time, in Poland the minimum wage for nurses is 300 - 400 euros. We have to provide first and foremost all the conditions guaranteed by the State, to provide social financial and any other support to all those who are actually being supported today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u155	Please finish the date 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u156	Today, we are obliged to provide all that support to all those on whom the medical services of the Ukrainian population are being maintained. Welcome to the health worker's festival. And I wish all the doctors, all the medical personnel, all the nurses, that as soon as possible, at state level, we could build together the proper European conditions for your important professional activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u157	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Andrija Shinkovitch, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum, I would like to address the Minister of Education and Science, who, I have every reason to say, does not hear both the education and the national deputies of Ukraine. Many appeals have been made to me from the educational staff of Netishin, Isiaslavski, Krasilovsky, Bilogirski, and Theophilus regions of Hmelničina. Educators are concerned that they are placed under different pay conditions in different areas. In some areas, both the indexation and the prestige allowance are paid; in others, no payment is paid at all. In the face of today's extremely difficult economic situation in the country, when food prices have risen rapidly, the basic goods have been raised, housing and utility tariffs have been raised, and education workers are under-paid every month for up to 200 to 600 dollars, which is noticeable at their low wages. Education workers, who teach our children, not only do they not have the incentive to provide the right level of knowledge transfer, but they are on the verge of survival. And in all the developed countries, the richest people in the budget sector are doctors and teachers. As a national MP, I applied to the minister a month ago. And it was his answer that moved me to the rostrum today. You know, the minister shares the concern of the national MP. Moreover, he points out that on March 25, 2014, he actually writes correctly, there was a Cabinet of Ministers regulation that made a slight change, changing from a fixed 20 percent prestige allowance to a "frontier 20 percent," and passed on this allowance to the head of the facility. Accordingly, the educational subsidy that is coming is not sufficient. And so, Your Honor Sergey Mironovich, (honorately, I have taken this word by accident) today, you should not feel sorry for yourself or share our concern, but rather as a member of the government to make changes or cancel this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, because it is in your hands. Moreover, Your Honor Sergey Mironovich, you have not cynically indicated that this year the government has passed a decree stating that the education of subsidies to local budgets is complete. So as a minister, you have to control it fully so that the teachers get an allowance for the prestige of the work. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you're going to be told that, but I'm going to say that your reforms are already feared. You went to Holland, and you came up with the idea of cutting the trade. You've been to China recently. The Enlighteners are afraid of the idea you've come up with. Dear Sergey Mironovich, doing science and education is two big differences. The education system needs a very balanced approach. And any reforms, they don't have to cut wages, social benefits. I urge you to listen and pay close attention to the real situation in education.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u160	Congratulations. Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! I have a question for the government, which, unfortunately, is not here right now. For whom do we make economic reforms? Are we making them for international ratings, or are we making them just to get foreign loans? No, it's not. The Radical Party faction believes that economic reforms must be made to ensure the economic growth and well-being of Ukrainians. You know the words we hear from the economic bloc of government, from the minister of economy, here most often, what? These are IMF beacons. What are IMF beacons? Our main beacons, these are the salaries and pensions of Ukrainian citizens, these are jobs that have to be created in Ukraine, this is production that we have to join in Ukraine, and our lighthouses are really Ukrainian lighthouses. Will it allow the rate of deregulation to solve the problems that exist in the economy? No, he won't. Because if we look at it, sometimes we lack regulation for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. Because when prices rose by 60 percent, what part of that increase is economically sound, including part of the increase in tariffs. So it's not a panacea. We don't really have to take responsibility and say deregulation we're not gonna do anything, we're gonna eliminate the ministries. On the contrary, we must assume responsibility for the economic success of the country, for jobs, for the welfare of citizens. That's real economic policy. It's not a general privatisation that needs to be done when private successful companies don't sell, it's a real fight against corruption, it's an improvement in government governance in the public sector, what needs to be done. You don't have to stretch your belts to a population that's already stretched. In fact, we need to create the conditions for investment to be invested in the childishization of wages. Look, together with the "Radical Party" faction with Self-Help, there has been a reduction in the only social contribution more than twice, a reduction in the income tax for individuals, what needs to be done, a reduction in taxes for people, for small middle-sized businesses, rather than a tightening of the population's belts just to raise taxes. We have to stop pushing the last juices out of business. Look at the monetary policy, instead of raising the next three times this year, the National Bank has raised the Nutzbank account. What is it? It's an economic freeze. In fact, you have to give cheap credit, cheap costs to the manufacturing sector of the economy, not to speculation, but to the manufacturer. That's why today, on the initiative of the Radical Party faction, supported by all factions of the coalition, there's a bill on an export credit agency to scale up exports of Ukrainian producers. Ukrainian producers should be given preferences in government purchases, as look in the United States, you try to sell the product on a government order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u161	20 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u162	and then check how it works in other European countries, and you'll see that we have to take care of our own economic interests. Next question. Not the sale of agricultural land, it's the attempt of the greatest affair of the century, but instead the wager on job creation, industry restoration, investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u163	Mr. Victor, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u164	And last of all, it's not the export of raw materials, it's the creation of all the conditions for the economy of production, the economy of innovation. This will pay a wage worth European, it will give you a pension, it will give you the well-being of the Ukrainian citizens we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u165	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Gennady Kryvoša, the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u166	Good afternoon! Dear Ukraine! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm sorry to see that such a small number of deputies, but I'd like to go to the coalition first and point out that if we focus on the activities of certain bodies, such as the State Fiscal Service, I would like to ask a colleague to specifically focus on whose and whose candidature are the leaders of the respective organizations and institutions representing us, particularly from the coalition. If the political power of Fatherland is focusing on and criticizing the government's activities, I would like to point out that one of the representatives of this government is their Minister of Ecology, who in general was not paying attention to what we were doing under Vasilkov. Dear friends, but at the same time, I'd like to go back to more specific questions, which is what happens to our local self-government. By the way, right now, I don't see anyone from the Fatherland faction. Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Consider the city of Kiev, our famous capital. To date, the mayor of Kiev and his famous team are taking a number of steps to improve the lives of the people of Kiev, the capital, and the guests. What do we see? A number of fine steps have been taken to clean up the area, along with the greening of parks and squares. A number of measures have been taken to clean up illegal, temporary, buildings and other objects. At the same time, however, the mayor pays no attention to strategic objects, not to places that need special attention. What do I mean, what does this mean? Today, we do not pay attention to the fact that gas stations and mayors of the city are being built around the houses, using their authority to dismantle kiosks, and not to the gas stations they carry, first of all, not just the technological situation, but the catastrophic situation for the residents of the buildings that are near these gas tanks. Dear friends, today in Kiev, no new places are actually being built for children in a garden, no schools are being built. The queues for children in the garden and for parents remain constant. To this day, dozens of appeals are coming to me from parents who are unable to bring their children into kindergartens. This is also quite a flaw. Dear friends, we see that today the entrepreneurs are completely defenseless in Kiev. They provide a fairly large, substantial support to the local budget, paying the corresponding taxes, including taxes. And where they're going, we can't see. We demand and want these funds to be paid in socially unprotected directions, in terms of education, in terms of medicine, in the first place, and in terms of culture. I personally call on the mayor of Kiev to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u167	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u168	And be more specific in your actions. Not to destroy the capital, but to protect the city of Kyiv and protect the kyans. Glory to Ukraine! People's Front, for the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u169	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Arthur Martovicko, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine! It became clear that a new edition of the Education Act would soon appear, in line with the standards of which extra-school education would be translated into a commercial basis. On the basis of these, some informal associations will be created. That is, the maintenance of these facilities will take place exclusively at the expense of parental and charitable contributions. It is a crime before our people and Ukraine’s future. By doing so, those who support these legislative initiatives will in fact leave our children’s childhood behind, not allowing them to reveal their outstanding talents and abilities. Taking into account the experience of the past years, we need to realize that it is an extracurricular education that contributes to this to the fullest extent. But this virtual economy of funds that its authors are planning to receive after the adoption of this law will lead to the mass closure of non-school institutions throughout the country, the release of their workers and the beginning of the humanitarian disaster. And our children will be alone with the streets, the basements, and the temptations to which you force them. Drugs, tobacco, alcohol, begging, and prison. To avoid being loud, I will give a life example. My 36 constituencies include three cities: Pavlovgrad, Ternivka, Prvotravensk, and Pavlovgrad, which have 21,000 157 children between the ages of 6 and 17. Over 7,000 of them work in various creative circles and sports sections. They develop their aesthetic, ecological, technical, and sporting abilities. They are eager to study the past of their homeland, national traditions, and learn to be patriots of our country, worthy of its citizens. For many children, work in circles is leisure. But for some, it is a choice of profession or even a life course. They are trained by 257 teachers, trainers, and specialists, many of whom are graduates of their extra - school institutions. And from the local budgets, there's only 800 dollars for each of them. Only one facility – the Tech Club in the town of Prvotravensk – has been trying to survive without budget support for several years, leading to a poor existence. But despite all the efforts of his manager, all the staff, this facility is on the verge of being eliminated. Yes, in the country’s difficult economic situation, military action continues. But to resolve financial issues on account of the poverty of ordinary citizens at their meager wages and pensions, with constant price increases in goods and medicines and utilities, and now on account of our children, Ukraine's future, the future of each of us. It's unacceptable. Dear colleagues, out-of-school education is our national acquisition, which must be preserved. Everyone understands that country reforms are necessary. But I repeat, it is not at the expense of our children to build a new life and a new Ukraine. So I ask the Minister of Education very carefully to see, consider my speech a question to you. Support, please. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Sobolev, the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u172	Real wages fell by 20 percent this year. The rise in crime is the normal response of society to the abnormal conditions that many people have experienced. But there is money in the country. We just have to take them out in corruption. This week, we let the President clear his head. Let's face it, there was corruption in the Security Service in Valentine's Day, just like it was in his predecessors. It is vital that it does not remain with his successor. The president appointed Vasil Gretzak, a man who for many law enforcement officials is a legend associated with corruption schemes. The president assigned him to do his duties. We ask the President to live up to his promise and to hold honest, frank consultations on the appointment of a new, clean, real head of security. Perhaps we should look not among the people who work at the TV station, where there are so many links to the KGB, the FSB, where so many links to this corruption. Perhaps the best officers who have shown themselves on the front are excellent candidates for this place. There may be other options, but in this case it is extremely important that the President no longer gives anyone the opportunity to make a mistake, especially himself. Secondly, we have all supported the initiative of our colleague Oleg Laska to resign the Attorney General. I remind you that we voted against Victor Shokin's appointment. And all his work shows that he is equally incapable of breaking the tradition of roofing the corruption of the Attorney General's Office. The same thing, I'm drawing the attention of our colleagues to Parliament, to Parliament, is that, a few weeks ago, a bill registered for the release of Arsen Awakov. Another law enforcement officer who failed the task of winning corruption in his office, where corruption defeated him in essence. This war of compromises that started this week has one good trait, which gives us a chance to break a circular message in law enforcement when the S.H.I.E.L.D.'s cracking down on the U.S. Attorney General's office, and together they help each other steal money. Let's do it. Last but not least, it is not possible without the support of society. Ask for journalists, requests for public organizations, requests for all voters, ask your political representatives to make these decisions, and then we will make them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u173	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of Alexander Suprunka, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u174	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Alexander Suprunenko, majority constituency 216, city of Kiev I am officially calling from this high rostrum to Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk on the use of urgent and systematic measures to install heat exchangers for the current year. Thus, the National Commission, which regulates energy and utilities, has since April 1st of this year raised heat tariffs for population needs by 72 percent. Yet, a sharp rise in tariffs has led to population dissatisfaction. The bills received proved to be a heavy burden for many families. This led to a massive request from the inhabitants of Kiev for the rapid installation of heat treatment plants. So their setting up this year before the start of the heating season will reduce social abuse and allow residents to pay for the heat actually consumed. In accordance with article 19 of the Housing and Utilities Act, the provider of heating and hot water services is a heat-supply organization. In Kiev, it's Kievenergo. At the same time, it should be noted that the executive body of the Kiev City Council issued the Order of March 31st of this year No. 273, which approved the list of buildings for the development of project and cost-benefit documentation and for the execution of heat treatment works. But for today, according to the information I've received from the residential and utility areas of the Darnicki district of Kiev, the work on the installation of heat treatment plants is going very slowly. This is due, in my opinion, to the unwillingness and lack of interest of the monopolist Kiivenergo. According to the information provided by KMDA’s deputy head, Peter Panteliev, for the self-establishment of a heat collector, the inhabitants need more than 50,000 dollars for a normal counter, 70,000 dollars for a counter with thermostats, and 300,000 dollars for an individual heat station. In view of what has been taught, it is not difficult to conclude that the inhabitants of many floors are unable to install their own heat meters. So I'm addressing you, Arsenija Petrovich, taking into account the substantial increase in heat tariffs for the population, to take urgent and systematic measures to install heat treatment plants in all of Kiev's multi-story residential buildings this year. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Welcome to Svetlana Zalitschuk's statement, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u176	Honorable Members of Parliament! Dear Ukrainians! The following week will be important for Ukraine in the international context, not only the results of the negotiations in the norm format. The following week, there will be another session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to consider at least two very important documents for Ukraine. So the first document is a review of the cancellation of previously approved delegations of the Russian Federation. This is a document for approval. to preserve sanctions against the Russian delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly. As a Ukrainian delegation, which includes all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, we will advocate the preservation of sanctions against the Russian Federation in order not to give them their right to vote back in the Parliamentary Assembly Hall of the Council of Europe. Let me tell you that, particularly in the draft resolution, that the international community that now includes 46 countries is fully urging the Russian Federation to implement the Minsk Accords, to immediately cancel the decision on the annexation of Crimea, to release Nadia Savchenko and other things that Ukraine supports. The second document, which is extremely important for Ukraine, which will be considered in the same way by the Parliamentary Assembly, is a report on persons who have disappeared during the conflict in Ukraine. In particular, the report says that according to the Ukrainian authorities alone, more than 1,300 Ukrainians who were reported missing were missing. And in fact, this information only takes into account data collected by the Ukrainian authorities. I would also like to point out that in this document, the Assembly calls upon the Russian authorities to conduct effective investigations into the prosecution, kidnapping, violent disappearances, torture and politically motivated killings of Ukrainian activists and members of the Crimean Tatar community. Dear colleagues! As a Ukrainian delegation, we will support both of these documents in order, in fact, to stand up for increased sanctions against the Russian Federation and, on the other hand, to do our utmost to bring our position to the international community. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u177	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian community. From the words of the state's leaders, we stand before great changes, we are referring to territorial and administrative reform, we are reforming the Constitution. And this is where civil society needs to include fuses, because when we talk about voluntary unification of territorial communities, the key word is "voluntary," not so. As is now the case in practice, when rural, village deputies are threatened, when they are forced to unite when they say you will not receive a budget for the following year, a lie. That won't happen. The Radical Party of Oleg Láška will not allow this, we are for territorial reform, but for voluntary, exclusively voluntary unification of the territorial communities. It is absolutely unacceptable, as is the case now, without asking people, for example, to unite a village where Islam is confessed and where a neighbour, where the Greek-Catholic faith is practiced. This is madness and madness on the part of those who try to do so. As far as the Constitution is concerned. Unfortunately, under the blanket, they're trying to write changes to the Constitution. Under the blanket, they try, not even to say that society, not even national MPs, prepare the text and bring it into the hall. On behalf of the Radical Party, I say that our party will oppose such attempts and that the changes to the Constitution should be discussed by all the Ukrainian people, should be prepared in Parliament, not in the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers or any other institution. And finally again about the law enforcement organs, because it's hard to call them law enforcement. What is now going on around the Tornado Battalion and blocking the base, when Ukrainians are returning weapons, is the guilt of the head of the Lugani Naumenk militia. Today, the ministers of the interior told me that he was the one who threw it on the air, that there was a supposed storm. I want to calm society down. There will be no storm. Ukrainians will not shed the blood of their brothers. The dwarf in the Kremlin will never see this coming. And like Namenko, like Matios, who broke the agreement with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u179	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u180	They must be held accountable. Because it must have been the disease in Mathios. And he starts accusing the national deputies of consulting someone. His friend Nahumenko is that the MPs are trying to dust him. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-19-m0.u181	Thank you. We finished our consideration of the order of the day. I declare the morning session closed. The next plenary session will be held on June 30 on Tuesday. Good-bye.
