ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs! Time to work. I'd like you to come in from the buffets to your workplace to continue our work. I ask the factions to call the deputies into the hall and ask the secretariat to report on the beginning of our work. Please come into the hall, we're looking forward to it. "self-help," please mobilize and enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u2	16:03.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we still don't have enough to go on. Please come in from the towers in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u4	Dear fellow national deputies, please take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the hall. The Secretariat would like to invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. [[16:07:24]] 314 people's deputies in the hall. We continue to consider matters of the order of the day. And you are looking at a draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for war crimes), (register No. 1849). Please report to the chairman of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's a second reading. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, dearly present, your mind is invited to consider the second reading prepared, I warn you. Comparative table to draft Ukrainian Act No. 1849, amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for war crimes). The Supreme Council, I recall, 12.02. This year it was decided that the bill should be re-readed, since the National Deputies did not support the drafting of the bill proposed by the Committee or the reaction adopted in the first reading. Another second reading of the bill came up with six suggestions, one from the National MP. Well, from the National Deputies, 1 from the People's Deputy Melniczuk, 2 from the People's Deputy Levchenk, 5 from the People's Deputy Vinick. Thus, 21 suggestions, including 14 that came to second reading, are included in the comparative table on rereading. Since the Supreme Council of February 12 did not accept any articles. Part of the draft articles prepared for second reading is a comparative table. Ka's on your hands, the second reading's back on track, which is what we did. The committee is invited to support a comparative table as drafted by the committee on 11.02. This year, namely, to delete the amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and to take into account amendments 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 12, 21, to reject the amendments: 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. And once again, this editorial takes into account all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and more importantly, the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Security Service -- all those who are interested today in making this bill a law. So, dear colleagues, the table is in front of you. Please, let's define. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u6	Thank you, Your Honor. We'll go after the repairs or something. The table is distributed to everyone, the committee's decision has been made. 21 revisions. All that has been counted. So there's no need to go to the repairs, as I understand it, in the hall. Yeah? All right, colleagues, please take your seats. Now there's going to be a signal vote that shows whether or not we're ready to make decisions. Please, distinguished national MPs! Alexander Yuriovich, please take your seats. Please, please. Please, Your Honor. Please, Your Honor, let's prepare for the signal vote. Ready? Signal vote, respectable colleagues. Please vote. Signal vote. Please, colleagues, a signal vote. [[16:12:04]] For 197 Not everyone's able to vote, I see. But it's an emergency, I'm stressing it. Let's try it again. Take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Signal vote, please. Please vote yes. [[16:12:36]] For 206 206 National Deputies in the Hall. The secretariat regularly invites members of the people into the hall. I didn't make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's prepare for the vote again. Please, a signal vote is how many national deputies are in the hall. I'd like to vote in favour. We're voting in favour to determine how many national deputies are in the room. [[16:13:18]] For 204 204 people's deputies. The factions. The opposition block doesn't vote. They don't want to vote. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Comments to the law. Please invite the people’s deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u7	Dear Chairman! While national MPs are preparing to be able to vote, I think a bill is still needed, because the authors were representatives of the Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. I want to remind you that the purpose of this bill was to increase the responsibility for crimes against the establishment of a military order. and war crimes and defining the specificity of criminal conduct under conditions of military emergency and special period. That is, what is needed today is something that needs to be taken first. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to ask for your support, because this bill is really important enough to reduce the number of military crimes and, above all, among the commanders and commanders of the troops, the commanders of the battalions in relation to their subjects, which I believe is correct and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, let's prepare for the vote again. Let's see if the number of deputies is enough to make decisions. Please. Colleagues, take your seats. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Let's have a signal vote under Law 1849. Please, colleagues, vote, please. Please be supportive. [[16:15:58]] For 213 It's better now, but I can see that not everyone has made it to the seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, you have a table of the bill. Please, colleagues. People's deputies, please take your seats. Let's re-vote, colleagues, with enough votes. Please, let's be clear. Please vote. An important law, what is it? [[16:17:18]] For 215
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, then we wonder why people treat the Supreme Council of Ukraine so much. Why the lowest rating among all authorities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I very much ask all the deputies who are in the towers, who are now holding operational meetings between the ranks, taking their jobs and holding a signal vote. It's just embarrassing in front of all the TV viewers who are watching our work right now. Such discipline and conduct of national deputies! So I call again on the heads of factions who are responsible for their factions, on the telephones, through the secretaries to find all the deputies and call them into the hall, and start our work. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the signal vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u11	Come on, colleagues. I see the people's deputies are coming along. Take your seats. Let's vote again, a signal vote. Please support the signal vote. Please, colleagues, we vote yes. Signal, let's see if there's a number of deputies ready to make a decision. Yeah, I'm ready. [[16:19:32]] For 247 Ready. 247 National MPs. Dear colleagues! An important, important, important draft law in the second reading. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. National deputies, please take your seats. Valérie Paccan, please take your seats, we'll vote. Dear colleagues, to your vote, may I have your attention, colleagues? Attention, please. The draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on War Crimes (registration number 1849) is put to the vote. It is prepared by the committee for rereading. The head of the committee of profile, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemyakin, informed that 21 amendments had been made, including all major amendments to the bill in the second reading and in general. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Let's go to the vote. Draft Law No. 1849, the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general the decision of the committee. Please vote and please support, Your Honorable Fellow National MPs, 1849 in second reading and in general. Your Honor, please vote in favour. [[16:21:23]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please move on. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, this morning you and I have adopted an order of the day in which we have incorporated the Act amending the Law of Ukraine concerning the House of Accounts of Ukraine. Attention! This bill is important for our interaction with the World Bank and provides for one article that allows the Ukrainian Court of Auditors to control, including the income of the budget. In this connection a draft law was prepared, author Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. There is an offer by the author to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support the proposal to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[16:22:26]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko. Colleagues, I'd like your attention, an important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u12	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, there is a bill under number 2515 amending the House of Accounts Act. I would like to point out that this bill has been tabled jointly by two national deputies, Stepan Kubi and John Krulk. And it's about bringing the bill on the House of Accounts into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, this is article 98, the Court of Auditors has been entrusted with the control of the comings and expenditures of the State budget of Ukraine. At the same time, despite the fact that such a rule is stated in the Constitution, there is no such rule in the Act on the Court of Auditors. I would like to point out that the Committee on Budget Affairs is preparing a comprehensive law on. a new edition of the Act on the House of Accounts for the second reading. Last week, we held committee hearings, which were discussed with experts, together with deputies from all factions, representatives of the President's Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers, with regard to the reform of legislation relating to the Court of Auditors. At the same time, as the Head of the Supreme Council has rightly said, in view of the need to fulfil Ukraine's obligations to our international partners, including the World Bank, there is a need to adopt a very specific standard and to fulfil its obligations, on the one hand, and on the other hand, and this is essential, and this is crucial, to bring the Act on the Court of Auditors into conformity with the Constitution. What is proposed by the law? The law proposes the introduction of standards in Article 2 and Article 7. At the same time, according to the committee's decision, article 16 of the Act on the Court of Auditors is proposed to be kept in good office. Thus, in Article 2, this is the task of the Court of Auditors and Article 7 of the “Approval of the Court of Auditors” introduces one word: “Control of the coming of funds to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u13	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u14	In this regard, I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to adopt this law today on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u15	Thank you. Please report to the committee head Pavelko. Colleagues, please take your seats, distinguished fellow national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u16	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national MPs and invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs discussed in its session this morning a bill of 2515 amending the Bill on the Court of Auditors. Such a bill has been drafted in order to comply with article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the legislative provisions for the exercise by the Court of Auditors of powers to control the revenue coming into the state budget. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill. In the light of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 2515 as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on the basis and as a whole as a law with the exception of paragraph 3 of the Bill on Amendments to Article 16 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, this bill refers to control, the function of controlling the Court of Auditors' incomes to the budget. Besides, it's important in cooperation with the World Bank, we've voted on several laws with you today. So there's a proposal that bill 2515 is very short, where it's only determined that the Court of Auditors will monitor the revenue of the budget, now vote on the basis and generally according to the decision of the committee of profile. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote and please support this bill of Law 2515 on the basis and in general. Ready to vote? Ready. Please vote on the basis as a whole. On the ground and in general, please. For. [[16:27:18]] For 263 Thank you, great colleagues. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I missed one question during the day-to-day session: Registration number 2577. When we included all the issues of the agenda, I didn't call this bill. This is a draft law on military matters, military pensions for those who are fighting in the ATO. So I'm asking you to put it in the order of the day session, and in the course of the discussion, you'll be able to determine what further his vote will be. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 2577 session. Only sessions, then committees and consideration. Please support 2577. I didn't name it when we included in the agenda of the day the issues of all those who were agreed upon. I'd like to support 2577 of the agenda for the day session. Vote please, colleagues. [[16:28:24]] For 254 Thank you. 254 -- decision taken. Dear colleagues, your second reading is covered by the draft Law (registration number 1688). "The status of war veterans, the guarantees of their social protection" regarding the status of persons who protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The draft Law is prepared for second reading. For the report, I invite the head of the profile committee, Alexander Yuriovich Tretjakow, to the rostrum. Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov, 1688. Please listen carefully to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Your second reading is called for a draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Their Social Protection on the Status of Persons Protecting the Independence, Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine under the Registration Number of Act 1688. The bill was adopted on 12 February 2014, I believe it was in the area of 265 votes in first reading. This bill clearly streamlines the number of ATO participants who are entitled to the status of participants in hostilities, as well as those involved in the war and persons with war. This is the first time that this right has been granted to volunteers. This is primarily those volunteers who fought last summer and who then, their units, entered the regular army or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. First, “the participant in hostilities” will be able to obtain volunteers who have participated directly in the ATO in voluntary formations, provided that they are further formed by the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or other State military units. The list is also extended to special service personnel such as the State Special Transport Service, the State Emergency Service, the State Prison Service and the Military Prosecutor's Office. Second, “Participants of hostilities” should no longer receive civilians. All civilians, enterprises, organizations that have been involved in the implementation of the ATO have exclusive “participating status”. That is, there is a decline in the number of benefits. Only those who fought, in short, who had weapons in their hands, would be involved in the fighting. Thirdly, the status of a war invalid is granted to all persons with disabilities as a result of direct participation in the ATO, including volunteers, volunteers, civilian escorts, what is happening in the ATO. The main discussion was the sensitive issue of granting veteran status to volunteers of so-called “illegalized formations”, i.e. those who did not join the Armed Forces. In human terms, we all understand that these volunteers are entitled to benefits from a State that is destroying, but that question remains open. After lengthy discussions in the Committee, members decided to legalize certain categories of such fighters, namely, who gave their lives and health for the integrity of Ukraine. Talk about those fighters who have died or who have been disabled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u19	Don't limit it, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u20	It's a big law. We offer to provide volunteers. Only the status of a war invalid in the event of their disability and the social guarantees extended to the families of the victims. However, the condition that such voluntary formations carried out the tasks of the Anti-Terrorism Operation in cooperation with the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military forces. This rule is already de jure a major breakthrough and a compromise, in my view. The second reading received 51 copies. Of these, 20, 14 were taken into account, and in fact 17. 14 were essentially rejected, and 17 were rejected. The bill takes into account the laws of the same nature that were passed by the deputies of Jaroz, Semenchenko, Vinnik, Chižmar. This bill, I know, was withdrawn because it is almost the same. At the meeting of the Committee on Veterans, Fighters, Participants in the Anti-Terrorism Operation, persons with disabilities on 18 March this year, it was decided to approve the comparative table of the bill (under registration No. 1688) and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading. The comparative tables for the second reading of the bill are provided by the General Legal Office with some comments. In order to take account of the General Legal Office, I request the adoption of this bill, taking into account the following rights. First. Paragraph 1 is for the transcript, paragraph 1 is for the transcript. The final provisions are as follows: "This law takes effect one month from the date of its publication." The other one. Paragraph 1 of the third chapter, the final provision reads as follows: "The Cabinet of Ministers within a month from the date of publication of this law." And third. I also request that the secretariat of the Committee, in conjunction with the General Legal Office, be permitted to make technical and legal corrections related to the comments of the legal administration, as set out in paragraphs 1.2 and 4 of this document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. This is one of the most important laws for today that foresees granting status to those many of our volunteers who have gone to the front -- and have been killed or injured. I want to remind you. A year ago, when everyone wasn't ready to back off the aggressor, a lot of volunteer fighters, including the Midan Self-Defense, went to the front of the war. Not all of them had documents, many of whom were burned in the premises of the trade union during the February 18-20 fights in Midan. But even though they didn't have papers, they didn't have passports, they drove away, they took up arms -- and they protected our country from a Russian aggressor, from a Russian occupation. The time has come to pay tribute to those people. Step by step, we will honor the volunteers and organize their social status. Today I want to thank both the committee and the committee leadership for a very important bill that regulates status issues for those who have died and those who have been injured. And I now propose that, according to the Rules, we go through all the regulations, concentrate, so that we can then vote on this law as a whole. So I'm going to go every direction that's been rejected by the committee. Tomenka's second edition. She's been rejected by the committee. Does Tomenko insist? Tomenko insists, please give him the floor for the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important and fair. Instead, the experience of giving the pseudostatus to the warlord during the Great Homeland War and the spedostatus of the Afghan events made me focus on three words: "those who participated in ensuring its implementation." So it's an anti-terror operation. I thought those words were rather ambiguous and could lead to people who didn't fight. At the same time, the authority of the committee such as Alexander Tretlyakow and Eugene Ribczynski convinced me that there would be no abuse of this norm, so I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u23	Thank you for understanding, Mr. Mikolo. The amendment is being deleted. The following amendment 7 was rejected under the authorship of Bielecki. Is Andrew Bielecki insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. The next amendment, which was rejected by the committee, was amendment No. 9 of the People’s Deputy Melniczuk. Does Melniczuk insist on voting on the amendment? Melniczuk does not insist on voting on the amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Where is he? I'm sorry, she insists. I'd like to give the floor to Melnichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u24	John Melniczuk, 14th constituency, Winnitzina. I've got a do. It's a question. I made three amendments to this law. I object to the fact that the order for the status of a participant in hostilities, the status of a war invalid, the status of a participant in the war and the status of a person to whom the law applies defines the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the practice, similar orders, instructions, and so forth issued by the Cabinet are almost quarterly. And that's why I have a question. on this ground, it is possible to manipulate these issues in the interests of individuals in order to reduce the amount of public budget payments. Such change can harm the guarantees of social protection for war veterans. I think they have these amendments that I've made. That is the law that must be governed solely by the Law of Ukraine, not by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'd like to hear an answer as to why my three amendments were rejected, which were spoken of by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u25	Thank you. Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u26	All legislative acts are always regulated further by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a common practice of all laws. The Legal Office is always opposed to all legal instruments being written directly into the law. That's the first one. Second. You don't have to blame the Cabinet for what it hasn't done. What will happen with regard to this law, I am absolutely sure, will be under civil control and under the control of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers will never be able to do anything to the detriment of ATO fighters. At least he and the government are kamikaze.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u27	Are You the Vote? No, are you voting? Are you insisting? No, it's not. It's coming off. Thank you for understanding. The correction's off. Next amendment No. 13 of the Semenchenka People's Deputies. Does he insist on voting, speaking? Semenchenko’s national deputy does not insist on the amendment or the presentation. The next 14 amendments are the people's deputy Kuprienko. Does he insist on voting and speaking? Don't insist. So it's rejected by the committee. The next amendment to the 17 is, once again, the people's representative of Kuprienka, it's rejected. Does he insist? No, he doesn't insist on voting on the amendment. The next amendment 23 is once again the People's Deputy Kuprienka. Does he insist? He insists. I'd like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u28	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. All my amendments to this bill are that when certain injuries are suffered by persons who are involved in military operations, such a situation is overlooked when a person is able to receive, as the experts say, a blunt blow to the head and will not refer to those bodily injuries. So these amendments were meant to indicate that health damage and then to qualify them by various signs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u29	Thank you. Please tell Alexander Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u30	We have consulted specifically on this issue both with the Ministry of Defence and with Minvod. They say it is the right legal language on their part. This will all be taken into account. And believe me, there's not gonna be one of the fighters that actually got hurt, and they're forgotten. It's guaranteed. And what is happening is under the control of the committees. I know what you're saying. It's the point, but believe me, here's Minhvod, and everyone's saying professionally that it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There's an incredible noise in the hall. We are considering the law that applies to many of our boys who died in front of us, protecting us, our families, and our Fatherland. I ask that you show respect for the issue at hand and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please, there's less noise in the hall and please take your job. It's about repairs. I think it's better that we give one or two more guarantees than we lose one of these guys on the status list who gave our lives up. Do you insist on voting on this amendment? Do you insist on voting? Yeah? Yes, then, please. There is an amendment to the vote number 23 of the Kuprienka People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please determine how to vote. Please vote. [[16:43:53]] For-141 The amendment did not get the required number of votes, so it is not counted. Next amendment is 25, and once again, the people's representative of Kuprienka. Is he insisting on the performance? Please turn on the microphone to the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u32	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Once again, I point out that in this second - reading bill, the wording for the list of bodily harms, health injuries that are defined as health damage in the ATO area, is incorrect. And so it falls off this list of health injuries, if, for example, a person was thrown off the left or right during an explosion and hit his head on something and lost his hearing. This is a health problem, not a disability. It is not a disability, it is a health problem. And this situation is not prescribed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u34	The man lost his hearing, he automatically becomes a cripple. And there are three categories, I, II and III. Well, what are you talking about? It's not true what you're saying right now, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u35	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? He insists. Thus, the amendment of the 25 people’s deputies of Kuprienka is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment and the proposal, please determine by vote. Please, let's be clear. [[16:45:39]] For-86 The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The following amendment 26, People’s Deputy Melniczuk, insists on the amendment? Is he insisting on the amendment? No, it doesn't. Very good. 28th, once again, the Cooperian People's Deputy. Does he insist on 28 amendments? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u36	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. In addition to what I mentioned earlier, there is still a flaw in this law that we lose in the list of members of the military actions of those who died before we passed this law. And they can't become a participant in combat.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u37	Thank you. Turn on Trelyakow's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u38	Why? On the contrary, this law seems to me to be regulating what happened, everything that happened last year, everything. You are now talking about the Cabinet of Ministers being required to define the criteria. The Cabinet of Ministers cannot determine the criteria. The Cabinet of Ministers only determines order. Amendment number 28. Well, he only defines order, there's no such thing as "criteria."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u39	Thank you. The author’s position was understood. I understand the position of the committee. Do you insist on voting? An amendment to the 28th National MP of Kuprienka is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:47:24]] For-56 Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The next amendment, which was not considered by the committee, is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Mantis. Is Mrs. Mantis insisting on the presentation and the correction? Don't insist, Mrs. Ola. So let's move on to the next 30 amendments to the people's MP Melniczuk. Does Melniczuk insist on voting on the amendment? Don't insist on 30 corrections. The next 31 amendments to the Kuprienka People's Deputies. Does Mr. Kuprienko insist? He insists, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u40	It's just the same as it used to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u41	Is it insisting? Don't insist, yes. Then there is no insistence on this amendment. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u42	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. I understand that my amendments now, like all those who have been rejected by the committee, will not be voted in the hall. But as a lawyer, as a practicing lawyer, I'm telling you that the inadequacy of drafting in the law of these moments will cause a number of lawsuits, because a very large part of both the health damage and those who took part in the ATO, and their position was not regulated by legislation at the time of adoption of the law, will not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u43	The Cabinet of Ministers cannot define the criteria; it is solely within the framework of the law. What is the definition of criteria? This is a discussion. The Cabinet of Ministers can only act under existing regulations. All of it. The main discussion is in the same vein.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u44	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? He insists. Then there is an amendment to the 31st People’s Deputies of Kuprienka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. We are determined by voting. Please. [[16:49:31]] For-60 Thank you. The amendment did not get the required number of votes either. Next amendment number 32. National MP Gordjeev and Chlan. Do they insist on voting on the amendment? It's counted. Okay. Don't insist. The next one isn't counted again by the Cooperian National Deputy. Amendment 34. He insists. Please give him the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u45	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Realizing that none of the people's deputies, apart from the committee members and the drafters, have read these amendments or understood the contents of these amendments, I will withdraw all the amendments and submit a separate bill of amendments to this law, because what we are about to accept is inconvenient and not entirely, I'm sorry, is correctly spelled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u46	Thank you very much for your position. As I understand it, 34 amendments are being amended, but according to the Rules, I have to go through each one. Thirty-eight correction, Cooper. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 40th, Cooper. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. And 44 amendments to the people's MP Melniczuk. Is it insisting? Yes, please give the floor to Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u47	Well, once again, I want to say that three of my amendments are unaccounted for and obviously the MPs aren't ready to vote for them right now, because my predecessor said it right. So I would like to support my predecessor in some way and join that bill that he's going to submit to clarify what we're going to adopt today. But I don't understand why the Cabinet of Ministers is supposed to do all this, not the law. For me, it's just supposed to be written down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u48	Thank you. Alexander Trelyakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u49	We can't write everything down in law because time changes and everything changes. We must enable the Cabinet of Ministers to respond promptly to everything that is going on in the country. There's never a law. I'll tell you more, you know, good constitutionalists don't need the Constitution to go too far. Additional laws are in place for this purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. Also, please, a lineup is Deputy Winnick. Please repeat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I would like to try again to go back to the amendment of MP Melniczuk in the part that the persons involved were involved. What are we talking about? This bill regulates volunteer formations that were not included in the National Guard, the IMF and the Ministry of Defence, etc., and were legalized, i.e. those involved. And in the drafting of the law, this is paragraph 20, paragraph 5, of sub-paragraph 1, as set out in the next line. That if a volunteer battalion was involved, all persons involved in the battalion would have the right to claim. Instead, by the time this battalion organized itself, at the beginning of the anti-terrorist operation, there might have been some people who had not actually played a decisive role at the time of the legalization of this battalion. So one way to make it clear is that these individuals, the appropriate individuals in these battalions, were in line when the battalion legalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u52	Please, Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u53	Well, honestly, it's very hard to accept from the voice, with all due respect. Let's do it, then we'll do it, then we'll do it, and then we'll do it. Well, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, these are all volunteers who may even have been part of military formations, but who have come as volunteers and who have died, and they are extremely many. Recently, a mother sent me a picture of me and her son standing under Debaltsev on the front and saying, "My son is gone." And the question is not even at cost, the question is not in status, the question is that I know that my son died in front of the front for Ukraine as a hero. The bill deals with all those who went and fought in different departments, both the National Guards, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and the battalions of the IMF and the Voluntary Ukrainian Corps, but those who had no documents and fought without being registered or in a state of one or other unit, formally and effectively staying in it but not being registered in the state. So I don't think we need to make any changes right now. If your amendment is valid and we see that the bill does not work, we will quickly form it as an amendment to the bill. And I think that both the committee and the committee head will be able to carry her out very quickly, and we'll be able to get her out of the room very quickly. So I propose not to delay, but now to all the groups unanimously, who are patriots, to vote in support of our brothers who have died and were wounded on the front line, protecting Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u55	What's more, today is the Grace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u56	Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats. We went according to the amendment procedure. I have only one request: Can we be a little quieter? Colleagues! Dear fellow national MPs, can we be a little quieter? Can we? I see Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko says we can, Andry Teteruk says we can be quieter, Vladimir Ariev says we can be quieter. Please! And Boris Filatov says we can. Colleagues, it's harder to work. That's why I'd ask. People's MP Solovay! National MP Skuratowski! Dear friends, I'm simply asking that we be quieter and more focused on our work. Please! Ask your colleagues to be very good with regard to other colleagues present in this room! My colleagues, thank you! That's better. Dear colleagues, we have just passed the amendment of the important bill, the registration number of this bill, 1688. There is a proposal to adopt this bill in second reading and in general. All positions on this bill have been expressed. So please take your seats, Your Honor, for the vote. 1688, in second reading, in second reading, and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. In the second reading and in general. Much better when you're quiet. "For" in second reading and in general. [[16:57:13]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u58	It's much better than that. Please, Your Honor, keep your voice down, please. The bill (registration number 1046) of the draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment (registration of issues, periodicity, periods of unemployment benefits) is submitted to your consideration. Reported to the head of the subcommittee, National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Druuk. Please. Please, Sergey Euseiovich, please. Colleagues. I ask you to pay attention very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u59	In preparing for the second reading of the bill, the honourable National Deputies, the Honourable Head, made four amendments to the committee. They were all accounted for. The comparative table here shows that the 3 amendments of the Lensky people's MP are partially taken into account, but the background is essentially taken into account in full. She just got a technical legal editing. The committee therefore invites the Supreme Council to agree with the text of the comparative table in the bill and to adopt the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u60	Mr. Head of the Subcommittee, please remain in the rostrum. In accordance with the examination procedure. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? All 4 revisions are included. Is there no objection? None. For the vote, please prepare. A bill for voting is submitted to your consideration. Please, Sergey Mishchenko. Stop the vote, please. Sergei Mishchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u61	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Well, first of all, I thank the committee for preparing my bill so quickly for the second reading. But I think we need to discuss in the transcript the issue mentioned in regulations 3, 4 and 5, where it is stated that unemployment assistance is paid not less than twice a month, but on the consent of the unemployed, once a month, in a manner established in accordance with part six of article 23 of this law. I think it's a mistake, part six. If we open article 23, order in the seventh part, not in the sixth. I think it's just your technical fault, your committee, it was. Therefore change the sixth to the seventh, for the order of the Cabinet of Ministers in the seventh is foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u62	Let me explain. These changes in article 23 were made at the end of March, and at the time of consideration by the committee, there was a sixth section. That's why we don't deny it. So in Part Ten, "Part Six," you have to read "Part Seven."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u63	So the correction is going to be correct, as far as I can tell? What the head of the committee has just announced, Sergio Mishchenka announced after the proposal. They'll be preparing for the final part. It is accepted this way, because this proposal will now be put to the vote. Prepare yourself, colleagues. Draft Law 1046: Draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment (on settlement of issues, periodicity, periods of unemployment) taking into account the fines announced by Sergey Mishchenko and confirmed by the head of the professional subcommittee. Please prepare for the vote. We vote in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:01:59]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have you. We're working hard enough today. You and I have a bill (registration number 2214). The author and the profile committee sent a letter to transfer his consideration, as it still needs to be worked out. At the same time, the agenda is still open to the inclusion of questions in the agenda for the voting of the following issues, namely, the staffing issues that were foreseen. I'll look at them on Wednesday. This is the draft of Decree 2236 amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call and Election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization. The author of this decree is Oleg Lazko. Both the reporter and the co-reporter are ready to report now. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, give me your word. 2236. I invite the head of Paul Pinzenic's committee of profile to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Rules at its meeting on 18 March, reviewed the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lášk Olež Valeriyovich (Registration No. 2236). The draft decision proposes to recall Deputy Kirichenko Aleksija Mikolaiovich as a member of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization and to elect a member of the committee of the national deputy of Lozov Andrija Sergiojevic. According to section 1, paragraph 4, the Position on the Special Supervisory Commission for Privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may recall a member of the Supervisory Board at his own request and elect a new member of the Supervisory Board. The National Deputy of Ukraine Kirichenkok submitted an application on 25 February of this year for his resignation as a member of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine this draft Order to consider, taking into account the above and to determine for it by voting. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u65	Please, Oleg Lazko. The author, please, make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u66	Honorable colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, at this very moment, when you and I are considering a bill for the privatisation commission to send one of the best, after the leader of the Radical Party, Andrija Lozov's personnel. At this point in Zaporozhye, 170 people broke into the Zaporezium Aluminum Plant and cut aluminum to the ground. The state-owned enterprise, which was once a dereperation, was acquired by the Russian oligarch, and then specially destroyed, is now returned to state property by decisions of the courts. And today it's cut out on scrap metal. I want to remind you that tens of thousands of inhabitants of the famous city of Zaporozhye were working in this state enterprise. Similarly, government property was once fragmented throughout the country. And so the task of the Special Privatisation Control Commission is actually a parliamentary control tool to prevent the destruction of what remains of state ownership. Therefore, the Radical Party faction delegates to this commission the deputy leader of the faction, the deputy leader of the Radical Party, Andrija Lozov. I'm specifically counting all these titles by Andreya Lozov so you can understand how important we are to this Special Committee's work on privatization control. And when we're offered to resell everything today, we're definitely against it, because today, when there's no price on government property, we don't have to sell it. On the contrary, the state must restore control over many businesses and many areas that had been monopolized by oligarchs. Now we're all talking about tariffs, not lifting tariffs. Our colleague Volodymyr Litwin even proposed a moratorium on not raising tariffs. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with all due respect for you, one moratorium is like a dead park. Because if there's monopolization of polygamy, monopolization of the gas supply market, monopolization of the housing services market, then the oligarchs who bought everything today are going to install space tariffs. And millions of Ukrainian citizens will have to pay these tariffs. So today's main need is demonopolization, deligarchization, deforestation of the Ukrainian economy, job creation, restoration of national production. Young people’s work, a decent salary to be able to live and work. And in this task, including special privatization committees. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, we have heard the author. We heard the author, the committee. Can we vote? Please, everyone, come into the hall, distinguished national deputies. Please invite the people's deputies to the voting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Please, let's vote. 2236, decree, based. The author’s proposal is made on the basis and in general. 2236. On the basis and in general, 2236. [[17:09:22]] For 212 We didn't make it? Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich didn't make it. Please invite the national MPs. We didn't make it. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. 2236, please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Ladies and gentlemen, please vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2236) as a whole. On the basis and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[17:10:29]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear fellow national MPs! We have two more decisions. We can vote them today, we can vote tomorrow. Are we voting today? Today. Okay. Your consideration is given to Decree 2136, the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Assembly and the election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. As reported by Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the committee of profile. Secretariat, invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall for a vote. Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the committee at the February 11th meeting reviewed the statements made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the National Front delegation, Babija Yuriy Yuriovich, on his election as a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. According to part two of article 6, part seven of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the election of Ukrainian National Deputies to the Committees is made on the basis of proposals made by MP factions, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees of MP factions. Taking into account that the calculated quota of the parliamentary faction of the People's Front political party in the Tax and Customs Policy Committee has not been fully used, the committee has decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Babia. And according to the first part of the first part of article 15 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee Act, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee for the consideration of the Supreme Council, have submitted a corresponding draft Decision No. 2136. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, you have heard that a statement was made by a colleague of the National Deputies, and a profile committee has prepared a draft Decree Registration No. 2136. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Igor Šurma, please. The word is Igor Šurma, Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u70	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I think today's vote on the committees is sorry for the expression, but it's total blasphemy. Why? Violations of the Law on Professional Committees according to the number, proportion of heads, first intercessors, secretaries are a gross violation at the beginning of our session. Today, Volodymyr Borisovich, 51 persons occupy the post of leftovers and first substitutes for breaking the law. And as of today, no one is looking at this norm, and today, this flip looks clean, you know, like a game in the soles. I have an offer for all the authors, take out the illegally elected 50 people in the positions of secretaries and deputy members of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u71	Thank you. Please let the regulatory committee review this request and inform the author essentially about the procedure. Please, 2136, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Maxim Yuriovich! People's MP Burbak! National MP Burbak, please take a seat for the vote. Please take a place to vote. Dear colleagues, 2136 as a basis and as a whole, please vote, 2136. Please vote 2136.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u72	Victor Krivenko, please, John Krulko didn't make it either. Please, 2136. Colleagues, please take your seats. We have two decisions left to vote on today. They have worked hard enough today. Please, 2136 as a whole, fellow national MPs, please vote, 2136. Please vote. [[17:15:23]] For 243 Thank you, Your Honor. 243. Decision taken. The order, a similar decree of 1494, was passed by the People's Deputy, Berezuk Oleg Romanović. Reported to the head of the profile committee, Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy of the profile committee. Please. Attention, colleagues! The final order for the vote, which is entered into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u73	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 11 February considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call to replace the post of deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy ( tabled by the National MP, Berezuk Oleg Romanović) (registration No. 1494). The draft Decision proposes to elect a deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy of the Ukrainian People's Deputies as a member of the parliamentary faction of the political party "Unification of Self-Help" – The Birdcatcher of Victoria Juryovna, to relieve her of her duties as a member of this committee. In the formation of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth appointment of the deputy head of the committee was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine, Long Olesia, who was called out of office on December 11, 2014, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In part seven of article 83 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, it is stipulated that if the deputy head of the committee is dismissed from office, the candidate for the post shall belong to the deputy faction whose quota he was elected to the post. The committee noted that a non-fractional national MP had been called off from his post as deputy chairman of the committee and had also pointed out that according to the allocation of the quotas for committee heads for parliamentary factions and groups defined by the Preparatory Deputies Group during the formation of the quantification and personal composition of the committees, for the deputy faction of the political party, Self-help, to be the deputy head of the committee, the envisaged quota of 2.3 representatives of the faction. At present, eight representatives have been elected from this faction to serve as deputy committee heads. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision taking into account the Committee's observations and determining how to vote on it. I'd like to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. A draft regulation has been introduced. Please prepare for the vote. I think it's perfectly logical when we support our colleagues whose factions have made this proposal, and the staff potential of the committee will be enhanced by the People's Chamber of Birds, Victoria Juryovna. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready? Please concentrate, please, on the vote. Let's support our colleague as to the position of deputy head of the committee in which the national deputy is a member of this committee. Colleagues, prepare, please, 1494. Colleagues! Please, Your Honor, let's support our colleague! 1494. Vote? On the basis and in general. Let's support, 1494. [[17:19:13]] For 222 Who didn't make it? I can see we didn't make it. Yes! I see we haven't made it. All right, all right, good fellows, come on, please! People's Front, I can see it's a little short notice. Dear colleagues, 1494, our colleague, by the way, a member of the coalition. 1494, please vote on the basis as a whole. 1494. Please, back up! [[17:19:50]] For 207 You don't have it. 207, no decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues from one faction do not vote. Dear colleagues, could you please not vote? We didn't make it? Come on. Fellows, once again, please. I see, yes, I see we haven't made it. Please prepare, invite deputies to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u75	Please provide an explanation for your position on the Peter Dusty Block. Please make a statement. Turn on the microphone. Turn on the microphone, not Lucenk's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u76	Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I don't understand the logic. Would you please tell them by their quota of 8 or 2.3? What's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, what's the, I just don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, so that we don't break this situation right now, I suggest we postpone the consideration of this issue. That's it. Oleg Berezuk, please. As an author, he has the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your professional and professional support. We really weren't even going to come out of this. Victoria Bird is an expert in the economics of antimonopoly law. In the leadership of this committee, which is unforgivable, all the factions of our coalition are represented, except for Self-Help. And it was a professional, not a political-quota assignment that has no principle other than hard work and representation. So we ask your support if you're in favor of a professional parliamentary approach, not a quota-political approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, these personnel issues do not need to be included in the agenda. I'll take this matter to the next plenary day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues. Dear colleagues, there are several revelations. Please, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius. And then I'm going to read two more statements that came to the secretariat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u80	Thank you. But before I read the statements, I'd like to go back to the people's deputies. When you were talking about volunteers today, that noise in the hall and the gamma, he, I emphasize it again, I say, is just a humiliation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to those guys who are fighting on the front. As my colleague once said, they don't have a weekend, they don't have a break at 12.30, or a break from two to four. They fight there day and night so that we can sit here and pass laws. And when there's less than half of the votes in the room, and even if there are, instead of working, there's some funny things that make you laugh instead of working, I emphasize: it's a blow to our frontalists in the back and it's a disgrace to Ukrainian parliamentaryism. That's why I would call on the honourable deputies: we are also soldiers here, who should be on their fronts to keep the front and keep the line. No more, no less. I would like to encourage deputies to be more disciplined, orderly, and respectful of our work. Now I would like to read two more announcements that have come to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Didic Valentin Volodymyrovich from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". Next statement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Dubininin, Alexander Ivanovich, from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, two statements have been made by two politicians. Of the two MP groups, the Rebirth Group and the People's Will Group with the fact that they're asking for a break. But she is asked to be replaced by a national deputy, Nichiporenko. Please, National Deputy Nichiporenko, three minutes, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! I understand you're a little tired, but please be careful! You know, I'd like to pick up one topic and finish with specifics. There is one bill, 1159, which has already been put into the agenda five times and has never come. Today you turn on the television screen and you hear that decentralization, we change the Constitution. But when will it be replaced? When will decentralization take place? Law 1159 provides for the land to be donated to municipal property. This means that once adopted, local self - government authorities will be in charge. I know that in this House of Parliament all the political forces, to the only, this bill is supported, is the bill of the People's Deputies of Kulinic. But there are also co-authors, MPs from all political forces that form part of the coalition, the Rebirth, the will of the people. I don't understand why the bill, which foresees the first steps of decentralization that the entire Parliament supports, is not brought into the agenda. That's why I'm asking you to bring it in Thursday morning. You know, the rule is that if it sounds like a deputy's last name, it has the right to a replica. So now I'm deliberately provoking the situation, and I'm sounding the MPs, the faction leaders, so that they can now say, on this point, in the form of a replica, their opinion. George Lucenko, First Deputy of the People's Front, Andrew Teteruk, The Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko, The Self-Helping Association of Berezuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Lasko, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherhood, if Julius Volodymyrovna is not available, please either Sobolev or you, or Cosmiakin, the "Will of the People" group Jeremeyev and from the "Rebirth" group will I ask the Homutinnik. I gave you your last names, you're entitled to a lineup. Please give me a line, tell me what you think. And I suggest you bring this up on Thursday, put it in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m1.u83	Dear fellow national deputies, we have worked hard enough today, passed a number of important laws, and we have exhausted the entire order of the day. So I want to thank you today for your effective work. We'll start tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning. Thank you for your attention. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
