ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please come into the hall, get ready for work. Please come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking you to take your seats, we can start the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. Dear friends, please take your seats. [[10:08:49]] 300 deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. I'm asking the faction leaders to invite the people's deputies into the session room, and we'll start our work. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honorary National Deputys, in accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To ensure compliance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules and the preservation of parliamentaryism in Ukraine". The heads of the Union elected Ukrainian national deputies Najem Mustafa Massi and Levchenka Yuri Volodymyrovich. Dear people's deputies, today is a very responsible day, filled with bills, but I would like to ask, first of all, your attention, the honourable people's deputies. Grand National Deputies, Alexander Yuriovich! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today is a very important day. At 11 o'clock, we'll start with you to review the President's decree on partial mobilization. There are a number of decisions that concern the defense of our state, which we will now include in the agenda of the day session, and after the committee meeting, we will be able to look at it in the second half. So I would ask that we all concentrate as much as possible, because these decisions are extremely important, and at 11 o'clock we'll be looking at them. So I would ask all the national MPs to participate as much as possible in the work of the session. In accordance with the agenda of the day, I am submitting a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Election of Heads, First Deputy Heads, Secretaries of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call (Registration No. 1645). I would like to consider this motion for a summary ruling. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves. And I'm going to now make a proposal to deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please vote, Your Honor, on the consideration of this order by a reduced procedure. [[10:12:24]] For 208 Decision taken. Please invite the reporter, the first deputy to the regulatory committee of Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u3	The President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on 24 December 2014, reviewed the statements made by members of the Ukrainian National Deputies' Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports by Mr. Mikolaiovich, a member of the Political Party's Dept. of the Opposition Block on the election of him as a member of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions and Mr. Viktor Josephovich, a member of the MP's "Will of the People" group, on the election of him as a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, by exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to change the composition of the committees is taken in accordance with section 7 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees of the deputy factions. And defined according to this principle of quotas according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account that the accounting quotas for the political party's parliamentary faction of the Opposition Block in the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sport and the "People's Will" parliamentary group in the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee has decided to support the statements made by the national deputies of Bakulina and Razwadowski and has submitted a draft decision to the Committee for consideration by the Supreme Council (registration number 1645), which the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u4	Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, you have heard the report on this decision. Is there a need to discuss it? Are They Desirable? None. Yes. National Deputy Illenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u5	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Dear colleagues! I'd like to turn to you now and pay your attention. Because, you see, when one or two national deputies are to be transferred from one committee to another, there is an appropriate decision. It is quickly considered by the committee is a positive decision, and now it is put to the vote in the hall. Instead, I would like to remind you that there is a regulatory committee in the Supreme Council, one of the key committees of Parliament, and it is on this committee that there is no vacancy on the head of the committee. And it's still a matter of some sort. That decision, which I myself have made and signed by the representatives of all five factions of the coalition, plus nonfractional deputies, to propose to my colleague Yuri Lewchenk for this position. Somehow she's lost, she's not getting out. And it seems that Parliament doesn't need a head of the regulatory committee. I just want to make this point, because without this position it is very difficult to control the compliance process in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, is it necessary to discuss decree 1645? None. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote. I'm voting on the draft decree (registration number 1645) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Dear colleagues! Vote please, Your Honor! Please vote. [[10:16:15.]] For 242 Decision taken. I'd like to ask very carefully of the national MPs. be careful when voting. Thank you. The next order is registration number 1646. Phinehas reports Pavlov Vassilovitch. Please. Before that, I'd like to make an offer to look at the simplified procedure. Please vote, Your Honor, offer: to consider a reduced procedure. Proposal for a simplified review procedure. Please vote. [[10:16:59]] For 225 Thank you, the decision is made. Please, Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u7	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on 24 December 2014 considered the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, a member of the "Will of the People's Group" Boguslav Vejacheslav Aleksandrovitch for his election as a member of the Transport Committee, exempting him from the duties of a member of the National Security and Defence Committee. Taking into account that the accounting quota for the parliamentary group "The Will of the People" in the Transport Committee has already been used, the Committee has decided, in accordance with section 1 of the first part of article 15 of the Act "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", to introduce a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Appeal and recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that a vote be taken on the election of Ukraine's national deputy Boguslav as a member of the Transport Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, what will be the suggestions on this issue? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the vote on the ground and the entire draft of Decree No. 1646. Please determine how to vote. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. 1646. [[10:19:18]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Thank you. It's a non-adopted decision. Ladies and gentlemen, another statement has been made regarding the committee. Please, Paul Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, another statement came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: National Deputy of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina, reporting on her desire to be a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. In doing so, he requests that a member of the European Integration Committee be relieved of his duties. The Regulatory Committee has not considered this question, but we believe that it is possible to consider it in the Hall and determine how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, are there any questions on this matter? You don't? I put to the vote Paul Vasilovich Pinzenic's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. On the basis and in general. As for Timoshenko, Ulya Volodymyrna, stated. [[10:21:11]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Decree (Registration No. 1355) on Parliamentary hearings on the theme: "On removal from the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES, "Hiddenance" object and prospects for the development of the alienation zone" is being submitted to your consideration. According to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please be clear: consideration of the matter of reduced procedure, honourable colleagues of the national MPs. [[10:22:06]] For 214 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! A great request from the Chernobylites, a public that cares for Chernobyl's problems, that we hold a parliamentary hearing on the eve of a sad date – April 26 – in March. First. The state of implementation of all our previous decisions. Because we've made decisions in part over and over again, from social to infrastructure. But. And second position. We're changing the order of the day and we want to listen to the question of the removal of Chernobyl, the subject "Hiddenness." You know, we've got 350 million euros from donors, we've got to work out, and we've finally finished the cover story. And what's most important is the prospect of developing an alien zone. I don't have time to report. At parliamentary hearings, we'll talk about this, but it's a unique thing called alienation zone, you can make movies. As we used to have the fashion of driving to the territory of the former Yugoslavia and drinking a drink, stamping and becoming a part of the fighting, so now the alienation zone is used to become a liquidator, to get the benefits, and, of course, not to pay the taxes yet. So I hope that we and the topic of the alienation zone will take a serious look at the parliamentary hearings. The committee's proposal, we didn't set a date, Vladimir Borisovich, because we haven't had any plans for the Supreme Council yet. Wednesday is usually March 4th. Then we'll be ready by April. And, by the way, Vladimir Borisovich, you have a request. I'm concerned that the basic bill that Victor Halasyuk and I filed with the committee on the moratorium on the removal of forests from Ukraine was removed from the agenda at night. I understand that of course with the "antillian" pads and with the Mafia in." Sonsulting' is hard for me to fight, I'm short of money. But if the Conciliation Council put up this bill, and the committees, the deputies didn't take it off, it has to be considered here. It is not the Antilles that should govern us. So I have a request -- you don't have to take down laws without committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u12	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Is there a need to discuss, dear colleagues? Are there speakers? You don't? I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 1355, on the basis and in general. Please determine how to vote. On the basis and in general. [[10:24:59]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Next question. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Ways of stabilizing the Banking System of Ukraine", registration number 1644. I would like to make a suggestion to consider this motion for a summary ruling. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:32]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Viktorovich Rybalka, for the report, please come to the rostrum of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u13	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The deep domestic economic crisis has placed Ukraine’s banking system in very difficult conditions. During the year, the bracelet was cut in half, and the currency reserves were cut in half. To put it mildly, it did not add stability to our financial system and excess emissions. In 9 months 2013 alone, the cash increase, released in circulation of 10 billion, increased emissions in the 13th year, was equivalent to the 10th, 11th, 12th years. That's NBU data. As a result, prices in the country rose almost a quarter a year and each citizen felt that way. Another result: We lost 33 banks in a year. Limited access to external resources, rapid loss of monetary value, deterioration of the financial situation of borrowers, imbalances in government finances, and political instability have had a major impact on the financial stability of banks. That is why the warning of further possible risks is one of the most important tasks of government. We need an effective mechanism and the stability of the national currency, the activation of credit, the cessation of bank outflows, and increased confidence. We are also under an immediate obligation to take crisis measures in the financial sector, such as making more brutal reporting, increasing transparency of information, and the ability of banks to pay, and clearing up troublesome debts. To that end, we must unite the efforts of the government, Natzbank, and key parliamentary committees. Under these conditions, parliamentary hearings and discussions at the highest professional level of banking problems are becoming extremely relevant to the vitality of our state. Stabilising the financial system is one of the key directions of Ukraine's exit from the crisis. If we do not take the necessary steps in time, the consequences will strike every citizen and every enterprise. I would like to emphasize that the risks are very serious. I would like to thank Stepan Kubi for taking the initiative to hold these hearings and all the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u14	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u15	to all members of the committee who unanimously supported this proposal. Dear colleagues! Please support the Supreme Council Order on Parliamentary Hearings, February 18, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u16	Thank you. Is there a need for discussion, dear colleagues? Yes. Please, People's Deputies. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! This is a very, very pompous speech that was given by a representative of the Radical Party. Indeed, things are right, in general, about everything and nothing. Perhaps not to be offended by the reporter, he may have little or no understanding of what he is saying. Very good things are the rapid downturn of the national currency, the destabilization of the banking system. Yeah. I highly doubt that we will make any constructive decisions in this direction if we do not listen directly to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. So this is a key official who has to take action, and without waiting for the February month, it's desirable that she say tomorrow about the forecasts that are waiting for the national currency, and. Because without this key figure of any parliamentary hearing, it's just going to be a speech room that doesn't lead to anything. Indeed, the situation is very difficult. We will support this decision. But once again, we emphasize that he should be heard at the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Head of the National Ukraine, because there are very many questions to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, please, then Stepan of Cuba. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I advise a colleague from a thief's block before giving an assessment to my colleagues at the Radical Party to look at their mirror and listen to your voice and then you'll tell. [[Applause]] As far as the subject that we are discussing is concerned. It is at the insistence of the Radical Party faction that the Head of the National Bank will report to the Supreme Council this week. We believe that Mrs. Gottarieva, who was confirmed here last summer as head of the National Bank, is a completely unprofessional person. I, by the way, have voted against her appointment since the past Parliament. On this parliamentary rostrum, she admitted that she did not own the subject, but Parliament had appointed it. Today, we reap the consequences of this decision regarding the appointment of Pottery. So we think that Gontarev is going to report the situation tomorrow. And tomorrow, we ask Parliament to support the decision to release the Head of the National Bank. This will be a decision that will stabilize.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u21	Stepan Bukov, Party Block of Peter Prashenko Why did this question and the history of the matter arise? First of all, it's an initiative of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, and it's a real four, including an international one. The other one. These are the large banks that have experienced the continuation of the deposit flow today, which is about 50 billion dollars and about $10 billion. The third position is that in order to restore confidence in the banking system, and today it is essential. And mistrust has not only been formed in the last year, but it's been spent, and I want to remind those who are looking at us today, and those who are hearing that about $40 billion in the last five years of gold reserves has been spent to support the stability of the course. And that's exactly when the banks got involved, when they got involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u22	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u23	When banks are involved, when the Association of Banks, experts are involved, and when this is a public debate, it will be a huge speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of the draft Order (1644) for parliamentary hearings. The rapporteur announced the draft decree. I'm asking the deputies to prepare themselves. I'm betting on a draft ruling (registration number 1644) on the basis and in general. [[10:32:55]] For 271 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Draft Decision on the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Reported to the First Vice - Regulatory Committee of Pinzenik Pavlovicz, registration number 1583. Please report to Pavel Vasilovich. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to the vote. Review of the draft order by summary procedure. [[10:33:42]] For 221 Decision taken. Please, Paul Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u25	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies, draft Supreme Council Regulation (Registration No. 1583) on the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the eighth vocation submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the National Deputies, members of the Committee in accordance with the decision of the Committee of 22 December 2014. During the second session of the Supreme Council, the draft calendar plan is set aside: for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 12 weeks; for committees, commissions, factions, groups 7 weeks; for the work of the national deputies with the electorate 4 weeks; for hours of questions to the Government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine 12 hours; for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be completed on 17 July 2015. The draft calendar plan, according to the committee's decision, was sent to the parliamentary factions and parliamentary groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and make proposals. No suggestions or comments were received. The committee decided to make a draft decision (registration No. 1583) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider and support it, taking it as a basis and as a whole. Please support the draft calendar plan and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u26	Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Vladimir Arjev, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I have an offer for the April schedule. So it turns out that the plenary sessions are going to coincide with the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where 12 parliamentarians have to be present. Because now every session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is very important, I ask you to change the sessional weeks from 14 to 17 to make it sessional, and from 21 to 24 this is a work on committees, commissions and factions just so that the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe can participate effectively in the work in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy. Next, the committee will consider a general decision. I, by April of the month there's still time and you'll be able to take this matter up in the working order of the committee and make proposals agreed upon so that we don't make decisions from the vote right now. So if you don't mind, I'm going to put this whole draft decision to the vote, and I'm going to have the committee consider your proposal. By April of the month, there is still much time to settle the matter. Do you have a deal? I don't see any objections here. I'm voting on the Bill (Registration No. 1583) of the Bill of Order on the calendar of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and in general. I ask the National Deputies to prepare for the vote. Please vote, honourable national deputies, on the basis of a total of 1,583. [[10:37:07]] For 271 Thank you, and I have the commission of the committee to consider the proposal of Vladimir Ariev to consider this proposal on the committee for appropriate changes if necessary. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are starting our consideration of the draft laws of Ukraine. And I'm bringing in for inclusion, honorary colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda. I'm asking about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act of Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on improving the order of conduct of military service and on social protection of Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in military service during a special period. It's military-related, but I'm underlining that it's now. I'll put him to the vote in the agenda. Then, during the evening session, we will begin his consideration. I would like the people's deputies to concentrate, and I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Ukrainian law registration number 1525. Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:38:47]] For 236 Decision taken. At 11 o'clock, as I said before, we're going to start discussing the draft law on the approval of the President's decree on partial mobilization, and now we're looking at first reading with you. I am introducing a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment for persons in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of anti-terrorist operations and improving procedures for confiscation (registration number 1569). Since this is the first reading, I propose a reduced procedure for considering it. I'd like to ask you to identify your esteemed colleagues, your national MPs for the consideration of Project 1569 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the first reading by means of a reduced procedure. [[10:40:17]] For-195 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the floor of Igor Vladimirovich Bondarczuk, Deputy Minister of Justice. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! To the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment for persons in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation and improving the procedure for confiscation. The draft Law of Ukraine was developed by the Ministry of Justice to implement Recommendation 4 of the International Standards against Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and the Spreading of Weapons of Mass Destruction (hereinafter: Recommendation 4 of the FATF) in part of the extension of the procedure for special confiscation of pre-emptiveness for crimes. The bill is designed to improve the procedure for confiscation of property used for the purpose of committing a crime or for committing a crime, as well as property derived from the commission of a crime. Today, in criminal proceedings, a special confiscation is applied exclusively for active and passive bribery. — Article 354, 368, 368. Three, three hundred and sixty-six. 4, 369 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine); abuse of authority (articles 364, 3641, 3652 of the CC); illicit enrichment; article 3682 of the CC; and abuse of influence (article 3692 of the CC). The draft specifies the provisions of articles 961 and 962 of the CC, by which the application of a special confiscation is limited to specified corruption, to exclude from the appropriate sanctions the CC reference to the application of a special confiscation, and from the sanctioning of other articles of a special part of the CC to the confiscation of individual criminal activities. Such changes will allow for the use of a special confiscation in criminal proceedings based on article 962 of the “Special Seizure Cases” for all crimes, if money, values and other property derived from the commission of a crime are proceeds of such property, were intended to induce a person to commit a crime, to finance, to secure a crime or to reward a crime, other than those returned to the owner. And when it wasn't installed, they went into state ownership, they were searched, they were made, they were adapted as a means of committing crimes, except for those who returned to the owner who didn't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u30	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u31	In doing so, the Ministry of Justice does not object to the possibility of a special confiscation solely for crimes committed by high-ranking persons for which criminal conduct is currently being carried out. Therefore, we consider it possible, along with the existing articles of the CC, which are responsible for corruption crimes, to provide for the application of special confiscation for certain crimes. For this purpose, a criminal procedure in the form of a special confiscation must be established in the sanctions of certain other articles of a particular part, namely: in article 109, 114 (for crimes against the basis of security of Ukraine), in article 115 (for deliberate murder), in article 190 (for fraud), 209 (for legalization of income), in articles 258, 2585 (for crimes related to terrorist activity). It is also envisaged to amend the laws of Ukraine: "On the protection of the rights, freedoms of citizens, the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory", and "On the execution of justice and criminal conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation" – to disseminate the activities of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code of the Institute of Special Criminal Conduct on suspects, accused who are in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation and who have been declared wanted. The changes proposed by the project will ensure the application of a special confiscation of property used for the purpose of committing a crime, as well as property derived from the commission of a crime in accordance with international standards, taking into account the recommendations of the FAC, will also contribute to the implementation of the principle of irreparability of punishment for persons in the temporarily occupied territory. I'd like you to support me as a whole. If this law is not passed, we will not be able to fill the military budget. Because those who finance the mercenaries and commit crimes in the occupied territory today will still be able to do so, and we will not be able to have support in our European partners because they do not understand why we do not accept this law. Please accept in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u32	Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the Kožemyakin Committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u33	Good day, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies, Your Honors! The Law Enforcement Committee considered draft Law No. 1569. The bill proposes that a special confiscation be applied not only to crimes envisaged in the articles relating to corruption crimes but also to any crime envisaged in a particular part. It also proposes to amend Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code, Ukraine's laws on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the legal regime in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory, and on the enforcement of justice and criminal conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation, by extending the act of the Criminal Procedures Institute of Special Criminal Conduct to suspects (in brackets) who are in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. After reviewing the bill, Ukrainian national deputies made a number of comments. In particular, the title of the bill on the irreparability of punishment for persons in a temporarily occupied territory or territory in the area of carrying out an anti-terrorist operation needs clarification, since it is considered that all persons in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of carrying out an operation that is unacceptable must be punished. First. The other one. The use of special confiscation for any crime also seems unwarranted, because a special confiscation may prove to be a much more serious limitation of rights than the punishment provided for in the relevant article of the Criminal Code. And there are other shortcomings, so the committee has decided to agree with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and send a draft for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign in. Two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u35	I give the word to Oleg Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u36	Please give me your word. Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Under the beautiful title of this bill is one very serious thing: improving the procedure for confiscation. If earlier in the current Criminal Code the confiscation goes as an additional measure of punishment for a number of crimes, starting with copyright violations and ending with the production of a counterfeit vodka, then all of these rules are now being removed. What will be the result? Then the right to confiscate such crimes will be decided by the judge. Let's guess one time what a judge does if thousands, tens of thousands, or millions of dollars are to be confiscated. That is why I consider this law to be imperfect. As a practical lawyer, I'm telling you that this law can't be passed even in the first reading. I fully support the committee’s position to refer this law to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Cosemiakin, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u40	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'd like to make a statement on this bill from the faction. The faction has decided to agree with the committee's decision, as well as with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration for some reasons. First, because the title of the bill today doesn't really match the substance of the changes that have been made -- the changes that are being made are the first. The other one. I want to say again that, for example, for committing any reckless crime and for committing an unprofitable intentional crime of minor gravity, the punishment will be to this person and the use of a special confiscation will be the same as for a serious crime. The faction believes that the bill needs to be further elaborated today. In addition, I would like to remind you that two years ago, all of us who were on the 7th call voted in favour of a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of an action plan for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine. And it's only been a year and a year and, unfortunately, we don't have the practice of applying this bill and this article on "special confiscation." So do. So the faction will support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u42	The word is given to Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u43	Yuri Voropeiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, it was very interesting to hear the rapporteur on the matter. He was given twice as much time as we were given, and from everything he said, the truth was only one thing: this law would help to fill the budget. Maybe. Just whose budget? That's another question. Whether the public budget or the budget of the private pocket of the person who decides on the special rule. What's really going on under this bill. Under it, it is proposed to remove from all articles of the Criminal Code a special rule such as “seizure” and to allow the courts themselves to decide on the criminal offence in which the special rule “containment” applies. This is exactly what the previous co-rapporteur has done before, as far as it is not a serious crime, not a property offence, but a corruption offence, will be subject to this special rule of confiscation. It's absolutely, well, absurd, it's pure corruption. And besides, notice that if we really have a breakthrough somewhere in the Penal Code and some articles that are corrupt, that property does not have this special norm, it's easy to fix, it's just a special rule of confiscation and everything. We align ourselves with any European legislation. That's the first one. And the second. You understand the budget of such a thing as not always filling it up a little, this time. And one more thing. The budget needs to be filled in legitimate ways, and it is absurd to select the latter from the population, especially from small crimes that do not mean crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u46	One second. Please give the floor to Deputy Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u47	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, in general, we generally support the idea that it is necessary, in a certain way, to change legislation on ensuring the irreparability of punishment in occupied areas. But we don't think it's acceptable to actually cover up a special confiscation as a way of redistributing actual property. Because there are enough tools to combat corruption today, and a special confiscation is now being adopted for all necessary criminal codes. And more than that, we think it's important to point out that, for the time being, the government does not for the first time give itself an improper quality in terms of norm-setting, in terms of inadequacy with the legislation in force. So we're going to the government, we're going to propose that we keep a closer look at those documents that are being prepared and better done with the direct functions that are being foreseen for the government today, and we're going to use those tools that exist in existing legislation. And the Self-Help faction actually supports the committee's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u49	Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, National Deputy Agaphonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u50	Natala Agaphonova, Peter Dusty Block. I want to point out that really making changes to this law is necessary. Because it is necessary to reform the concept of special confiscation and to extend the application of it. But what is proposed in the bill now may lead to cases where the court will decide whether to apply a special confiscation in very simple cases where an unwary crime has been committed, when no serious crime has been committed and appropriate punishment will not match the severity of the crime committed. So in this part, a special confiscation needs to be processed. We need to expand just the list of articles that have been in the proper format for the cases that are necessary. And we also need to develop a bill in the part that concerns the institute of special criminal conduct. Therefore, we support the vote in the first reading and suggest that we redraft it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u51	Thank you. I think it would be appropriate for the first reading to vote it out now. Take him to the parliamentary stage, and in the process of preparing for second reading from the committee already make proposals on this bill, and thus deal with it. Please, what are some other thoughts? Lechenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom. Society, look, here, frankly, is a very direct question to Kabmin, and I'd like to hear the answer. How did it happen that with the right standards for special trial, special court conduct in the ATO area, which is absolutely needed by the countries, how was a bill of absolute anti-national law on special confiscation imposed with such correct standards? Well, just so our listeners understand that these rules essentially allow you to confiscate your car for violating traffic rules. Well, what is it? Why is that cheating? So I urge you, not in the first reading, to adopt this law, but to send it to the subject of the legislative initiative. I'll send it back to Kabmin. And let them just give us a bill about the ATO, just a special procedure at the ATO. To really make things better. And they're taking away these standards of special confiscation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the logic is simply to adopt this bill, I ask you to listen carefully. The bill is important, I've heard it from everyone. But there are certainly standards that need refinement and so forth. If we send the developer to work on it, the next question will be that he will work with the developers again. If we now approve of him in the first reading, we can do all these things. On the first reading, we'll be able to work all these things out on the committee floor. I can't see, I don't see huge, huge problems here. So I'm going to put it on the ground right now, this bill, if he doesn't get it, then we're going to talk about what to do next. But I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u54	Let's close to the developer, please. Deputy Justice Minister, closing statement. Attention! Listen carefully, fellow believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we are calling off this bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u56	Then let me put a proposal to the vote if its developer thinks it's necessary. Then we'll get it back to the developer. I'll make an offer. I'm going to put to the vote a proposal, honourable colleagues, to return to work as adopted by this profiling committee to the drafter of this bill. Please vote on the return of the subject (registration number 1569), on the manufacturer’s return to processing. Please vote. Please vote. Return to Developer. [[10:59:31]] For 214 Dear colleagues, once again I'd like to ask everyone to take their seats. You read the Rules, then. You read the Rules, please. I ask you, Your Honor, to concentrate, please, on the vote to return to the vote on Bill 1569. Please support the vote on return. Vote please, Your Honor. Dear fellow national MPs, I ask you to vote. "For," please vote. [[11:00:15]] For 221 Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please take your seats and do not raise your voice, please. Once again, please return to your seats. And I'm voting for a return to the bill (registration number 1569) in order to return it to the developer as decided by the committee and everyone who made the statement, they talked about it. So it's the general idea of a hall, just not everyone can vote, I get it. I'll bet you a return vote. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Faction leaders, please invite your deputies to the hall. On your return to consideration of 1569, please. For 1569. [[11:01:13]] For the 250. Thank you, Your Honor. And now I'm voting on the return of this bill to the developer for further processing, as were the terms of all factions. Please vote for the developer’s return to processing (registration number 1569). [[11:01:36]] For 258. The decision is taken and returned. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I would like to point out that this reporter was talking about his initiative, not the Ukrainian government. Hence, he is not a subject that can be called off by a bill. Dear colleagues, we're at 11. Dear colleagues, I have. Please, Julia Timoshenko. Julia Timoshenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head of State today, the President of the country has filed a complaint about the death in Volnovas. They're peaceful people, they're children, it's a tragedy, a tragedy for Ukraine. When we began our meetings, we did not announce a moment of mourning, a minute of silence for the dead. I ask you now to declare such a moment of silence for the dead in their memory and to do so immediately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u58	Dear national MPs, the national silence minute, will be announced at 12 o'clock in accordance with the President's decree -- that's what I'd like to point out. And now I declare a moment of silence for innocent people who have died. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. I said you just didn't hear. At 12 o’clock a national silence will be announced, and today a declared day of mourning. Dear colleagues, we have scheduled a day-to-day review of the draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilization. There's a proposition: turning two factions: Oleg Laishka and the "Fatherland" faction for the break announcement. But I understand that in exchange, it's a statement. And then we'll go, we'll look at the draft law. Please, Ivan Kirilenko "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u59	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, as a result of the adoption on the eve of a radical budget night for which our faction, by the way, did not vote. The situation with local budgets is catastrophic, and it requires immediate response at our legislative level. The power of appeal to all MPs without exception. Today, more than 10,000 rural and rural councils cannot approve their budgets. How can the budget be approved? For example, this is the last call to us from the village of Bill of Chortkow district of Ternopil, where the village head of Pitłko Volodymir has just returned from the ATO zone this morning, and says that out of the 1.3 million incomes of the 2014 budget in this year, he is left with about 300,000 income, so minus one million. And there's a specific example. One of the most prosperous rural areas in the country is the Danube Region. So, one town, two village councils and 42 rural councils, whose budgets were one of the best balanced in 2014, in 2015, only one village council and eight rural councils in plus, all the others in minus, because according to the new legislation, a profitable part of them lost 10 million 430,000 dollars just from the income tax of natural persons. Especially significant are these losses for those budgets that had large payers of this tax, and now they've lost. The same situation in the region of the region of Ivano-Frankow, of the 63 rural councils, only 15 are able to support themselves. And this statistic is causing fair indignation especially to those councils that have no income and fixed agricultural taxes. These are mountain settlements, which are 1,600 rural councils -- 16 percent of all the local governments of Ukraine. Further delay in correcting this situation will deepen the conflict, causing unpredictable consequences. The Fatherland faction strongly suggests, Volodymyr Borisovich, that we should immediately, because two weeks ago, not the plenary, vote on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, number 1728, which our faction prepared together with National Deputy Yuri Bogdanović Derevyanko, and not wait for two weeks. There are simple things written: In the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Budget Code it is proposed to establish that in 2015, out of the budgets of villages, villages, cities of district importance, expenditures are made on inter-budget transfers from the district budget. All of it! It's not that bad. We must immediately vote and save the local budgets and not provoke the opposition that is not necessary in Ukraine today. Volodymyr Borisovich, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u60	Thank you. I want to inform you that, unfortunately, this bill that you named, it only takes into account the salaries of officials, unfortunately. And the bill, which is prepared by the committee, changes, includes not only financing the salaries of rural budget officials, but also financing social institutions, educational institutions, and so on. This bill is therefore prepared. But I would like to point out that, according to the Ministry of Finance's explanations for the formation of local budgets, this will be done automatically, and transfers from district budgets to local budgets will be assured. So this issue will be settled without any problems before you have announced it. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (No. 1762) to include this bill in the agenda of the day. It has to do with defense issues. So I'd like to ask the national deputies to take their seats, and I'm going to put a vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day, and I'm going to ask him to back up, Mr. President, and we're going to look at it later in the evening session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. To the vote. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Registration number of draft Law No. 1762: amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibilities of military personnel, the granting of additional rights to commanders, and the imposition of duties during a special period. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, Your Honor. Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda. [[11:10:16]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I'd very much like to ask you to take your jobs. We continue to consider matters of the order of the day. I want to inform you that the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, our colleague Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, is in the Hall. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And before we begin our consideration of the extremely important draft law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilization, I propose that we do this as follows. Accept its consideration of the reduced procedure, but give sufficient time to report on the draft law's report. And then the questions in the room that will arise will be answered and answered by Alexander Valentinovich. I'm voting on a reduced procedure. But I think we have enough time to discuss it in detail. Please vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[11:11:42]] For-189 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm introducing Bill No. 1743, and it's reported by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. Alexander Valentinovich, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u61	I think that's enough for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u62	Seven minutes, please. Please report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u63	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Russian aggression continues. In the last days, there has been a sharp upsurge in the situation, a significant increase in gunfire. Yesterday our positions were shot more than 129 times, a record since the beginning of the year. Two soldiers were killed, four injured. Russian terrorist groups are boldly demonstrating total disregard for ceasefire arrangements. They don't just kill our military. You know, on January 13th, under Volnobach, an enemy missile killed the lives of 13 civilians in the Ukrainian Donbas. On the occupied area of Donbas, a military group of over 36,000 people has been deployed. Among them are 8 and a half thousand members of the regular army of the Russian Federation. They have 542 tank units, up to 990 armored combat vehicles, artillery systems, including fire systems 694 units, rocket complexes "Point U" - 4 units, air defence systems - up to 57 units. Along the eastern part of the Ukrainian-Russian border, there are approximately 52,000 Russian troops with significant offensive potential: over 300 tanks, over 1,800 armed vehicles, more than 750 artillery systems and rocket systems, up to 360 combat aircraft and helicopters. At present, there is an agreement between the battalion tactical groups, whose special composition has been the experience of fighting in regular rotations in our country. Under these conditions, there are two basic scenarios. The first is the restoration of the enemy of large-scale military action and the onslaught of the active participation of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, which could result in a full-scale continental war. The second scenario foresees the Kremlin's attempts to prevent the stability of the situation in Ukraine, the activation of terrorist activities, the transformation of the resistance into a long-term armed conflict with the depletion of Ukraine's economic, military, moral and psychological potential and the creation of a pretext for achieving its goal — the destruction of Ukraine's statehood and independence. This raises a legitimate question: are we ready for the scenarios that have been used and what it takes to prevent the expansion of expansion in the rest of Ukraine's continental territory and to ensure the release of temporarily occupied territories? The time passed after the Minsk cease - fire arrangements is in vain. Over the past year, the industry has provided more than 740 military equipment units, including more than 154 tanks and other armored combat vehicles, 165 cannons and mortars, 16 aircraft, and 8 helicopters. In addition, 67 aircraft, 42 helicopters, 24 drones, about 4,000 armed vehicles, 622 cannons, and mortars were restored by military repairmen. But all this technology without trained military personnel is worthless. As of January 2015, there were three lines of mobilisation in Ukraine. The military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations that provide for the strengthening of the security of the state border were involved in the tasks of the anti-terrorist operation, as well as in areas identified by the defence plan. However, the immediate need remains to strengthen the military and mobilization readiness of our Armed Forces and other military forces at a level that guarantees an adequate response to the threat of national security in the face of the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation. Soldiers and officers who were appointed in March 2014 have been serving for almost a year, heroically defending the country in the most difficult times when our army, other military formations, have only risen from the ruins to which they were converted under the rule of Yanukovich. In addition, legislation provides for the preservation of jobs and salaries for those who have been mobilized for a period of not more than one year. Our heroes have fulfilled their duty, so they must be released and replaced by new military personnel, in addition to those who express their desire to remain in the Armed Forces. With a view to solving these tasks, the National Security and Defence Council decided to carry out partial mobilization on 20 January of this year. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine signed the corresponding decree, which provides for three lines of mobilization, a total duration of 210 days. Also, the signed decree on the appointment and the corresponding release of those members of the service who had served the appointed term. We need to be aware of the fact that the Russian Federation's special forces will do everything they can to undermine the mobilization or, at least, to make it more difficult to do it, including in this room. [[Applause]] In this situation, our public authorities, public organizations, political parties, journalists, all Ukrainian citizens must demonstrate a high awareness and patriotism, responsibility for the country's fate, protecting Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity from a cruel and strong enemy. In order to avoid the mistakes and shortcomings of the first wave of mobilization in front of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, the National Guard, our border guards are assigned tasks that no military officer, no military officer, will be required to be mobilized without the full provision of clothing, shoes, personal security, weapons, and so on. All mobilized must undergo systematic training and reconciliation. I will point out once again that, at the same time as the military units are being reassembled, steps will be taken to phase out military personnel serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces during 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u64	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u65	who are serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations that were mobilized in 2014. At the same time, military personnel who have gained military experience during the year are scheduled to make the maximum amount available to the military reserve. We're going to create a multi-million-dollar reserve, in particular an operational reserve of the first queue, which, if necessary, is carried out directly by military commanders without the involvement of the military. The creation of a powerful reserve of trained fighters with combat experience will greatly enhance the resilience and mobilization potential of the Armed Forces and other military forces. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine unanimously to support the bill approving the President's decree on partial mobilization. May the Lord God bless Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, please ask Alexander Valentinovich if there is one. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Well, let's write it down, okay, from factions. To be recorded by factions. Please, National Deputy Ishchenko, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u67	I'd like to give you my word to the Packman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u68	Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u69	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u70	Secretary.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u71	Mr. Secretary! Please tell us that there are about 830,000 people in Ukraine who have the right to carry arms, forms, and other weapons. So these are people who know how to hold a gun. As you can see, will the first steps of mobilization be those people who have the right, special skills, and will we not once again appeal to the ranks of the Armed Forces of those people who do not have special military skills in the possession of weapons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, I have noted in my report that it is very important that our power forces draw a conclusion from the problems that arose during the first three waves of mobilization. And it's not just theoretical conclusions, it's practical. First of all, it's the material and technical provision of all our mobilized military personnel. We don't have to have any soldiers, an officer who's called to the ranks of the Armed Forces, the Nazi Guards, the border guards, and so on, not provided materially or technically. Which has no shoes, no clothes, no personal security, including, of course, and a very important mobilization plan, first of all, we should certainly give priority to patriotic citizens who are willing to protect their country. Next, we should invite and invite to the ranks of the Armed Forces and other forms of those citizens who have special training, including, including, in the case of the MINS, proposals on the willingness to call on those citizens who are on the stand for the presidency of the University of Minnesota.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u74	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the text speaks solely of the provision of clothing in the field after the season, feeding, and moving to the places of residence. In fact, the issue of personal safety, the vests and everything else in the text are missing, even though you made that statement. I would like you to explain clearly how personal security will be provided to all those who will continue to be guided and mobilized. And the second question. The text goes into the first form of "a special period for the business." Please specify what you mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the fact is that partial mobilization, partial mobilization is already a special period for our country. And this is regulated by valid legislation. So, your honorary colleagues, right during the military threat that we're facing today, we're going to have enterprises that are going to provide a defence and industrial complex that will ensure our country's security will work in a special regime. That's the first one. As far as the means of protecting our soldiers and our officers are concerned. First of all, those soldiers and officers who will be demobilized, who will be released from the ranks of the Armed Forces and transferred to the military reserve. Of course, they will not be able to take their armor in remembrance of the war. They're all staying in the Armed Forces. In addition, the National Security and Defence Council of the Ministry of Defence of the National Guard has given the border guards a 100 percent target, I emphasize, 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u76	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u77	soldiers and officers who will take part in the fighting. There will be no exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nechayev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u79	Please give the word to the head of the faction Boyko Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u80	Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u81	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, Yuri Boyko, "The Opposition Block." We fully agree that we need to change the armies that are on the front and bring them home. And we agree to support the decision you make to the Supreme Council on one condition. The ruling has four points: if the first paragraph of this decree announces full mobilization in the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Council of the NBO, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then we are ready to support the ruling. So I have a question for you: Please tell me, you have the political will to announce the mobilization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its entirety and to replace the troops with our deputy corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u82	The Honourable Leader of the Opposition faction should not seek any reason not to vote in favour of the decree, but of the law approved by the President's Order on Partial Mobilization. I have the conviction that this vote will clearly show the Kremlin's agency in this Parliament, in this Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Those who abstain for any reason by hiding their cowardice and their betrayal without pressing the pros button will clearly show their position. As for the mobilisation of those categories you were talking about. As far as I know, the People's Front has introduced a draft law on liberation. removal from the Act on Mobilization of Restrictions on the Appeal of Deputies of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] I fully support this bill. I hope the Supreme Council will soon pass this law. And first of all, we're going to call on those national MPs who are taking very public care of the people of Donbas. Indeed, they are working for another country that is taking aggressive action against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u83	Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u84	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to remind you that it was former President Janukovic who addressed Putin with a letter to introduce Russian troops to Ukraine: Crimea and Donbas. And that's why the disadvantaged regions that sit on the Supreme Council today are primarily responsible for the Donbas war. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, when you risk calling on the front of the members of the block of thieves, in no way giving up weapons, just digging trenches, and the deeper the better. [[Applause]] The deeper, the better! If we talk about the substance of the bill that we are considering, of course, the Radical Party faction supports this decision of the President as the Supreme Commander, because we must remember the known truth: only when we are strong will we be able to protect ourselves only when we are strong enough to count with us. Weakness provokes the enemy to aggression. If we are weak, if we are unable to protect ourselves, we will lose Ukraine. Therefore, we must do our utmost to protect it from authority, government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u85	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for sure your suggestions will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u86	Samohelp faction, Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Paul Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u88	Dear Head. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to let me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u89	Dear national deputies, a minute, a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't go anywhere. We're voting on mobilization now. Do not give in to provocation. Colleagues! People's deputies! Dear National Deputies! Listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. Listen to me. Don't give in to provocation! Do you hear what I'm saying? Do not give in to provocation, take your seats! We are considering an extremely important question. And there has to be full consolidation. So please! Please, Paul Mikolaiovich Kishkar, Self-help. It's okay, please. Thank you for your understanding, distinguished national MPs! Get in your seats!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u90	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, citizens of Ukraine! In Ukraine, indeed, war. We must find the strength to respond adequately to the challenges facing our nation. I have four short questions, with your permission, whether there has been an economic justification for the mobilization process; whether there has been a systematic change in the preparation of units; whether there has been an internal rotation of units in combat positions; whether there is communication between forces, including through the National Security and Defence Council; and whether the leader considers it. Secretary of the National Security Council. An important issue is as painful as the personnel changes in the power structures and what suggestions do you have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u91	Thank you for such a complex question. First of all, it's about economic justification. Before signing the Order, of course, the President held a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council, and I remind you that the members of the National Security and Defence Council are both Prime Minister and Kabmin's responsible ministers. Of course, there are calculations as to how much we need to call, how much we need to provide for the financial issue of mobilization, and the provision of, of course, the financial force of the Armed Forces. So all the accounts are done, and the resources for that, the Cabinet of Ministers is now mobilizing. As far as rotation is concerned. I spoke in my statement about what would happen to the replacement of those who had been protecting the Fatherland for a year, a very difficult year, and they would move to the military reserve, so that in case of danger we could have additional resources ready to protect the country. The rotation in the service is also taking place in the National Guard. And that's the question of taking part in the fighting that concerns the updating of the military force.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u92	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u93	Those who take part in this will certainly be taking place. And I think that when he talks to the Secretary of Defense, he'll be able to tell more about it, or he'll be able to talk more about it with the head of Genstab. With regard to personnel decisions, respectable colleagues, officers, generals who are unable to perform the tasks set out in these difficult conditions will certainly be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, the People's Front, Unguran Pavlov Yakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, in general, expressing respect for the enormous work being done by the PNP and our forces, I give the word to the commander of the battalion "Peacemaker" Andriy Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u96	Mr. Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine! The People's Front faction will generally support and vote in favour of this bill. But we have to listen to the people responsible for the mobilization, and so we ask you to organize, to provide the Chief of General Staff who will come to the National Security and Defence Committee meeting to identify some problems that we need to solve, and to change some of the principles that have been violated during the previous wave of mobilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I support the proposal made by the Teteruk People's Deputy on the occasion, so I think that the entire committee supports the special mobilization of the meeting, where both the Genstab leadership and the Ministry of Defence, other military formations will be able to discuss the detailed issues that need to be addressed during the mobilization process. It's very important. And, dear friends, it is important that all committees that should contribute to this process, including freedom of speech, including health care. We talked to the local MP about the need to step up our work in the direction of treating our wounded fighters, to make this situation much better. And from that point on, we're going to have to hold a separate meeting. Dear friends! We need to mobilize the whole country to win. We don't have an alternative. And that's what I'm calling you to. And the first step is to vote for the President's decree on partial mobilization. In addition, I'm paying attention to you, your honorary colleagues, that along with the Mobilization Order we have two other very important laws that I would like to support today. Army.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u99	Armed Forces, other military formations are in great need of a solution. In particular, this is Act No. 1525, which amends certain laws to improve the conduct of military service and the social protection of citizens. What we're talking about is that we're especially increasing when we're talking about term service, we're increasing the age of young people to 20, which is where the call starts, and we're increasing it to 27, which is when the service ends. Such changes should be made to the relevant legislation. This also applies to payments. Very important, dear colleagues. We made a decision with you last year that during the year, wages are saved, jobs are reserved for those military personnel who are called for mobilization. But when a person is ready to continue serving, will we not support that desire and provide appropriate social conditions? So I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, to support this law and Number 1762, which deals with the strengthening of military discipline. These laws require the Armed Forces, the National Guard, all the military formations that are protecting Ukraine today. Thank you. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I think we have exactly the only position on this question, and the question-answers were. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the basis and the whole bill approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilization (project registration number 1743). I'm asking you to bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Dear colleagues, calm down. Let's vote. Calm down! I'm voting on Bill 1743, based on it as a whole. Let's support our Ukrainian army, support the mobilization and confirm the President's decree. Please vote, please support. On the basis and in general. On the basis and in general, respected colleagues. [[11:37:45]] For 268. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. The factions, please. That's the best part of every faction that supported this bill. Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the following issues of order. Then we have registration number 1557, draft law. For that matter, there was a faction position, as far as I could see. Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk 1551, profile committee, committee head. Please, 1551. Give us a moment to consider this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u101	Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs. It's not a People's Front offer. I'd like to say on behalf of the committee. The faction came in this morning. Sir, this morning, the Self-Help factions, the Fatherland and the Peter Dustenk Block came in. And in connection with the publications that appeared in the media yesterday, I have a request. In order to be able to have a professional discussion with both experts and with the community, Vladimir Borisovich, let's take 1551 off the table right now. Vladimir Borisovich, I have an offer, let's take it off of 1551 right now and let's work with factions to create a common coalition position. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u102	We're not going to vote, we're just going to postpone his consideration and you're going to consult, and then we're going to look at it. Do you have a deal? It's a deal. Thank you. The following project, 1567, is a draft law on the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Bill 1567. I think we can consider the first reading by a reduced procedure. So I'm going to put it to a vote for a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please let the people's deputies determine. Please identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:40:46]] For 134 We will consider the full procedure of this bill (registration number 1567). Please invite the Minister of Economic Development and the trade of Ivaras Abromavichus. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u103	Good afternoon, everyone. At first, very quickly, with regard to Act 1551 on State procurement. We got, at the last minute, a lot of accusations of corruption. Therefore, everyone who has a good reasoned statement will be gathered either tomorrow or Monday, and we will certainly listen and assign it. We have worked with the European Union for a long time, representatives, some points have been taken into account in principle by most of them, and we certainly do not agree with this critical point of view that has been expressed. With regard to Act 1567 on the List of State Property, which is not subject to privatization. At present, the State has 3,000,374 facilities, only in 1920, of which 265 are in bankruptcy. Most of these enterprises are very small. 60 per cent of the workers have less than 1 million euros, so good businesses are not as good as I would say. Top-20 is 70 per cent of total net income. Top 100 is 91 per cent of net income and currently amounts to 124 billion bracelets. This list, which is being updated now, has in principle not been updated for long enough, so on a large scale it needs to be cleared up by a large number of companies that are either already bankrupt or already united, or no longer exist at all. Public property management and private investment in the development of these enterprises must be changed. A total of 1,478 facilities are currently included in the list of prohibited privatizations. In accordance with the criteria of article 5 of the Privatization Act, 551 facilities are included in the new list, i.e. they are reduced by two thirds, including nuclear industries. There were debates here to allow partial privatization of nuclear power plants. There are only some examples in a world where there are minority shares in nuclear power plants in private hands, but they are largely personal. So do we. Our offer is to leave it at that. Defense, railways, state reserve systems, space industry. A total of 1251 enterprises are excluded from the current list. These are marine fishing ports, APC enterprises, alcohol industries, coal, aviation, chemical industries, machinery. Most of you have already read this bill, so I'm going to finish it. I'm ready to answer your questions. I beg your pardon. We have one comment. We suggest that the Cripple should be allowed to privatize, corporateize. And there is, in principle, also until second reading, we can refine it, and the enterprises that are currently on list 1 are all transferred to list 2 to allow as many enterprises to be corporateized as possible. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u104	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues, question to the reporter. Please sign up for the question. It takes us three minutes to do that. Please, Kuprienka, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u106	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us what criteria you are laying down as the basis for establishing that list of exceptions to objects prohibited from privatization. So what are the specific criteria?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u108	The criteria, as I said, are the law, article 5 on privatization, which contains specific criteria for enterprises that are not subject to privatization. That is why we referred mainly to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Mr. Ednak, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u111	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u112	Mr. Minister, I have two questions. Regarding 1567, it repeals the 1999 law, which lists some 300 state forestry enterprises. In 1567 they're not there, they're excluded. Do you have plans to privatize 270 landscapings? Please answer the question. And the second question is that government officials usually don't sell state-owned enterprises in crisis when the state gets less than it can get when it raises the economy. Also. And in fact, politicians, businessmen tend to put businesses on the market when they can buy them by bringing money through offshores for free. Also, please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u113	If you follow the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers prior to its inception, a new Government has been established, a number of enterprises have been made available for privatization. When we came to the new Government, we withdrew from privatization, some enterprises were offered to sell in part on December 25. 25 December last year, you know, it's all resting in Europe, and we're selling, selling property. Therefore, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers remains the same that nothing needs to be privatized at this time, although we believe that the State is a bad owner in Ukraine, which is in most other countries. That is why we are: improving corporate governance standards; changing directors and where we need to change; making independent, independent directors' institutions, monitoring boards. And when the market condition helps change the process under which the Maintenance Fund operates and so on. It is possible for a State to hire a privatization adviser, which is not currently available in some cases. For example, in Centrenerego, the State had no adviser, which was not in line with world practice. And only then will we sell. This list does not necessarily mean any kind of immediate mass privatization. First, everything is clean, the process is better, and only then will we sell the business. About the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I think we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u115	Roman Kachure answers – Deputy Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u117	This issue was discussed on the committee. Candidosospas do not fall under the criteria of article 5. But we are willing to accept and include them, since there is no one first. initiatives under this category of enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u118	Thank you. I think we've already spent three minutes. I'll have three more questions and answers in a minute. We will continue to consider the procedure. Please have three more minutes to answer questions and answers according to an additional entry. Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u120	Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u121	So, Alexander Villkull, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, the adoption of this law is effectively excluded from the previous list and the establishment of alienation mechanisms through the privatization mechanism and through the mechanisms of fictitious bankruptcy, fictitious bail and other more than thousands of public enterprises. Among them are leading industry institutions. So you can destroy industry science. The attempt to remove Ukrispirt from Ukraine's personality is particularly cynical. There has been a State monopoly on alcohol on Ukraine for over 500 years. This is one of the main sources of the State budget. Formerly of the main, now of the most important. In this situation, when the Ukrainian Government asks for loans around the world, we now want to privatize for kopecks because the normal price in terms of economic collapse, depreciation of national currency, war.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u122	Yes, Mr. Wilcule, I understand. You've been in politics a lot more time than I have. And you know that alcohol companies have not only brought a lot of money into the budget, but they've always been the center of corrupt transactions. That's why we all know that. They talked to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and took other associations into the working group and so on. It has been concluded that the alcohol industry needs to be privatized in the medium term. As I said in response to the previous question, we are not privatizing anything in the short term. But the list needs to be cleaned and shown to society, including you, which enterprises will be sold in the medium term and in the long term.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, Marcenko Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u125	Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u126	Lechenko, Freedom. So, society, and all the listeners, the Ukrainians! This is a criminal project, Janukovic in Rostov laughs at all and regrets that he didn't do it. He's so sorry! So we urge you not to vote for it. You are now proposing to completely exclude a thousand state-owned enterprises, privatize them -- instead of using their revenues to fill the budget. Privatize the alcohol industry, privatize the forest industry, privatize the oil pipelines, privatise the Ukrzalznica – all privatize. But the pensioners cut back, the minimum wage to cut everything down is a gang criminal project. So if there are normal national deputies here who are for the people, not for their pockets, I urge you to come to the rostrum right now and stop this vacchanal. Join Freedom! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u127	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to tell you the next thing, listen to me very carefully, national deputies, don't come out here. Listen very carefully, honourable deputies, see, now 11 hours 54 minutes, once. Wait, colleagues, look, colleagues. Listen, your honor, it's 11 hours and 54 minutes. In six minutes, I'm going to declare national mourning. It's going to be a minute of silence. The second position, according to the Rules, is to take a break after that, and I would suggest that we continue the consideration of this issue with the report, the co-reports of the Head of the Professional Committee, and that we continue to consider the procedure of this bill. Because if by procedure, and what you're doing right now, it's not the procedure. Is that an option? The head of the profile committee, a minute, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You know, Kruspirt is the most corrupt sector in the Ukrainian economy. I didn't believe it, but now I see it as, indeed, yes, because the representatives of the Freedom Party who ran the Ministry and this Easter party are very strongly opposed. [[Applause]] In contrast, I would like to say that this is the Freedom Party that does not appear to be members of the coalition, and we have in the Coalition Agreement a decision that we will, in fact, include this bill, and the coalition will support it. Not a thousand companies, but 1,200. Plus, I'd like to tell you, Mr. Head, and pay attention to all the members of the coalition, thank the government that a very quality document has been prepared. First, it's new; second, it's very clear about the business issues that are at the point of bankruptcy. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u129	Let me finish with the head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u130	Therefore, Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the bill is essential. We insist that it be voted on as a basis in the first reading, and the deputies, including the Freedom Party, can make their amendments on the second reading. Let us not violate the Rules, do not violate the procedure, or behave properly toward one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u131	I can only add the only thing, my dear colleagues, is that, firstly, my dear colleagues, now 11.56, I ask all the national deputies to come to the hall and take their seats. The second is that 1200 enterprises, the Jacobs, belong to the people of Ukraine, are feeders for corrupts. [[B in m in s a l in]] And all that applies to effective governance is that we have to take experience from European countries. And the main thing is not privatization, but the way it's privatized: public auctions, on European markets, to sell these businesses. Then it will be effective, and otherwise it will be food, and every director will be rich and people will be poor. Dear friends, I'd like to ask all national deputies to take their seats. I'd like the national deputies to take their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Mr. Secretary, thank you, take your seats. But I would ask the members of the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Thank you, Minister. No, we don't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable National Deputies, distinguished National MPs, according to the President’s decree today in Ukraine declared a day of mourning for innocently murdered people. The national silence minute will be announced at exactly 12 o’clock. Dear colleagues, this is a huge loss for all of our people. And I want to announce a moment of silence for the innocent people who have died. [[A Minute of Silence]] The eternal memory of the innocent is lost. And our compassion for our family and loved ones. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! Please enter the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work. Ladies and gentlemen, we still don't have enough room to continue our work, so I'm asking you to leave the buffet, leave the watches, and go to your workplace. Members of Freedom Group, please approach the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u133	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! I'm asking all the national deputies to come to the Supreme Council Hall. We will now continue our consideration of the draft law on the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization. As soon as there's a coalition meeting, I'll give it a ring. I was asked to sound it. It's about what we're looking at. Now we're going to give a few minutes from the factions to speak out, they're going to form a consolidated position that has the majority of the votes in the session room, and we're going to give the closing statement to the profile committee accordingly, and we're going to make the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, national deputies, let's register two minutes from the factions. The Honourable Heads of factions! Please sign up for two minutes from the factions. Two minutes from the factions. Two minutes from the factions. Please log in two minutes from factions and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the hall. Please invite the deputies and we will now proceed to the factions of the factions. Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u134	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! Our faction analyzed a bill submitted by the government, and, in general, supporting the idea of privatizing inefficiently managed enterprises that are owned by the state, thinks that the list that is prepared does not match the realities of today. First of all, we would like it to be in the transcripts of today's session and our proposal as a whole is for the government to refine this list in part. First. We believe that privatization, and in fact, the withdrawal from the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization, of an enterprise such as Ukrzalznica, which according to the current legislation is the only structural unit, poses a risk of privatization, including a railway track, not just a moving composition. That's why we're asking you to exclude this from this list. The other one. We believe that, in view of the fact that all documents are prepared in Parliament by the representatives of the Peter Poroshenko bloc for the establishment of a Special Investigation Commission on the activities of the Ukspirt State Enterprise, any exclusion of these objects from the list that are not subject to privatization is impossible to conclude. Third. We believe that the law that is proposed cannot contain the rules of other laws. What's more, they've been on the clock since 2020. That is why our proposal to return the government to work with the faction offerings is based on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u135	Thank you. The faction's position is clear. Self-help faction, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u136	Honorable fellow MPs, honourable chairman! A good owner, property, when not liquidated in its functionality and during wartime, does not sell. It's just selling to someone who's deluded. Dear colleagues, today State enterprises are the property of the state. And only the vulgar capitalists want to sell them cheap. The offer to the government is very calm and normal. We return your law to you. Please set up business management. Bring them to a high-quality liquidity. Please wait for the end of the war, and too expensive for the companies we can sell when it's good for the state. This is obvious. The Self-Help faction has always had such a position and says: to return the law to the government for further development and to have the Minister of Economic Affairs lead the process of managing quality European governance at state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u137	Kononenko Igor Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u138	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the more pressing issue, the greater the law on privatization and the effective use of state property. We all know that we have a state, in practice, not the very effective owner and not the very effective manager of state-owned enterprises. But there are a lot of warnings in the Peter Prashenko faction about both the structure of the law and the list of enterprises that are included in this law. So our proposal is to return this law to the government, to the government to consult with representatives of the MPs and groups with specialists, and to return a more perfect law to Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mikhailo Papiev's opposition block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Deputy Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u141	Alexander Wilcule. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u142	Thus, the distinguished people's deputies, the respected people of Ukraine, I reiterate that when this bill is passed, which is lobbyed by the Government, will be removed from the list of illegal enterprises to privatize more than a thousand two hundred enterprises. In doing so, arrangements are being put in place for the exclusion of enterprises from the public. This can be done both through classical privatization and through raiding mechanisms such as fictitious bankruptcy, fictitious bail and so on. It is highly controversial how many of these enterprises will still be privatized openly. That's the first one. Second. When a provincial coalition, the authorities of the Government argued that it was necessary to privatize that today it was corrupt food and that all the money was being stolen. Then I'll remind you that you yourself have appointed the directors of this corruption for all of these thousands of 200 enterprises, and you probably have a share in them if you don't change them. Assign effective management and pay the State dividends, and pay the budget taxes. Privatization of enterprises such as Ukrispirt, mentioned above, the State monopoly on alcohol, is very important for the economy of another country. For example, the European country, Germany, has laws that reinforce national mail. The next is the Cruise Station and the Ukrazalznice plant, which is a natural monopoly, it cannot be privatized. Sectoral institutions privatize, there will be trade and office centres, it will undermine industry science. Better develop laws to support those enterprises that are owned by the State. At Yusmashe in Dnepropetrovsk, wages are not paid for five months. The enterprise is a state-owned enterprise and the enterprise is in fact being destroyed. Develop laws that support and enable State-owned enterprises effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Sergey Pashinsky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u144	Dear friends, the majority of the Ukrainian population believe that there are two threats in our country: Russian aggression and corruption. We talked a lot about Russian aggression today. Let's say a few words about the ultimate threat to our national security -- it's about corruption. In 23 years, Ukraine has created a colossal foundation for corruption at the legislative level. And when we say that by creating the Anti-Corruption Bureau, we're going to beat this corruption, well, don't make me laugh. I'm going to give an example of the European States, and I'm going to give an example of England, where GDP fell, until they privatized their public sector. I'll show China where the bribes are shot, and what? Let us tell each other the truth: the state sector of the state economy of Ukraine is ineffective and completely corrupt. And when we're told to change leadership, dear friends, we have to clean up the field for corruption. Excuse me, it reminds me of a bad anecdote -- the beds to be moved. Yes. Once again, my colleagues made the right points, and the Crucifixion and the Crucifixion. But for example, when I went to my colleagues and said, "What are you blocking?".. They told me there's a strategically important enterprise like Ukrispirt. Maybe there's no one in the world who doesn't know the more corrupt business. There's Jura Yenakiyevsky and his younger dealers who are still robbing this company, robbing the state, and telling us, let's give grants. [[Congrats]] Come on, guys, I want to say the next thing, I'm supporting my colleagues. We have to work out this law. But let us not cover up the desire to cover up corruption with words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, please, the Victor Halasyuk Radical Party. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, while the speaker is speaking now, I ask everyone to come in and take their jobs. You've heard a general proposal to return this bill to the government for processing. And in the process of developing in the Ministry of Economics and then in the budget. All will say enough: what you need, where you need it, when you need it, and it will be taken into account. I beg of you, Victor Halasyuk. And we'll move on to the vote after the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. We have to start not with a list of enterprises that are not privatized, we have to start by adopting a law that will amend the privatisation procedure, and it will provide a transparent way of doing that, and it will provide for the sale of shares on foreign markets across the IRO, on different foreign markets, depending on what it is on the scale of the enterprise. When this decision on those enterprises is taken by financial audit of those enterprises, a real assessment of their effectiveness, because if an enterprise today does not bring anything into the budget, it does not mean that it is an inefficient enterprise, because maybe it just needs to really set up a proper corporate governance, and it will bring hundreds of millions, or maybe billions, into the State budget. So we have to start by defining the features of privatization, so that it's transparent, in an international way. Secondly, we need to ensure transparency in the use of public funds so that we, the citizens of Ukraine, can see how government funds and utilities are used. Then we can assess their real effectiveness and determine what the list should be. So we suggest that we turn this document over to the government, together with the government, to make it consistent with this logical order: first order of privatization, differentiated with specificities, public control of state and municipal funds, and then, the list and deliberate, conscious privatization, what would be convenient to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u147	Thank you. Please have the committee head's closing statement. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk. Let's get ready for the vote, dear fellows. Please return to your places to vote, fellow nationals! Please! Andrew Ivananchuk, please head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 1567, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is on the table. On December 24, the Economic Policy Committee reviewed the bill and decided to adopt it as a basis for its first reading. But there has just been a coalition council meeting where it has been decided by all factions of the coalition to return the bill to the government for further work so that the government can take into account the amendments proposed by the coalition factions. So I ask you, Mr. Head, to put this matter to the vote when it is decided by the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u149	It's an absolutely smart decision. I'm asking you to take all your seats. And I'm going to put to the vote the question of the return to pre-processing, the subject of the legislative initiative for re-processing, the government (registration number of draft law No. 1567). I'm asking the people's deputies to concentrate on the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Returning the subject of the legislative initiative to further development (No. 1567). Please vote, Your Honor, on your return, on your return to pre-work 1567. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote for the return. [[13:01:47]] For 233 I want to call on the heads of factions and experts to join in the joint work of the Ministry of Economics, and so that we can make a very high-quality bill for Parliament's consideration. All the factions, all the experts would like to join, and the committee would like to take over the quality of the bill. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues of the National Deputies, as I promised, the Committee on Budgets prepared a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the clarification and application of individual provisions in accordance with the rules of existing legislation). About what we talked about this morning. With regard to the local budget funds to settle this amendment. I suggest you do it this way. I shall now put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of this draft law in the morning session. The Budget Committee will then hold meetings. Then I'd ask the national MPs to join us, and we went out to vote on the agreed draft of this law. Because the bill that was before that, he took into account the wages of the authorities, that is, the officials, and this is more complete, he's regulating absolutely relationships, and he's not going to let anyone at the district level take advantage of the allocation of finance to the lowest, basic level. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate, please. Let's focus, please. For inclusion in the agenda (registration No. 1766). I'd like to ask you for an association that agrees with the government, and then we'll take it up on the committee. Vote please, Your Honor. For inclusion in agenda No.1766. Please, dear fellows. Please encourage us to settle issues related to local budgets. [[13:03:51]] For 238. I'm asking the committee to meet from 14 to 16 hours. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to participate in this meeting so that we can prepare for the 16th hour and vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question. Dear colleagues, I have received an application for a break from two factions. It's the Self-Help faction and the faction of the Peter Prashenko Party. But we can replace it at the request of the Self-Help faction, its heads, for the performance. That's why I'm asking for three minutes to perform. Oleg Berezuk, Self-help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u150	Deputies! This is an extraordinary situation. I ask the minister of health to listen especially to his or her assistants right now. An emergency and a terrible situation have arisen in the country. Patients with renal insufficiency have virtually lost their ability to have good haemodialysis. It's about days and hours, colleagues! Hundreds of people can't. will not be able to receive this procedure next week, which means either to be critically ill or to die. This has been the case because of the unwarranted conduct of one of the public purchasers, who through the Antimonopoly Committee has already blocked the tender for the purchase of waste materials for haemodialysis three times. These are related companies TOV "Ukrprommed" and TOV "Rubmed", which are associated with the environment of the former president of our state, Janukovic. The Ministry of Health should immediately – I emphasize the word "immediately"! – to explain to the Antimonopoly Committee that hemodialysis purchases are complete. Technical equipment and waste materials are being purchased to meet the technical requirements of modern hemodialysis facilities. We demand, ladies and gentlemen, we demand! – from the government and the Ministry of Health to immediately take all measures to prevent the death of hundreds of people. They have been crying out for help for months, and today they are just calls from all parts of Ukraine from ordinary patients. The U.S. Attorney General must finally deal with the matter, for it is death because of ignorance or sometimes the principle of ignorance and gain. Please take this statement as an official request to the Government of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the following issues of order. And I'm introducing Bill 1539. And once again, I would like to put the procedure for a brief vote. I ask the people's deputies to determine how to vote on a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:07:31]] For 201 Decision taken. Thank you. Please welcome to the floor of the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Valeriovich Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a bill to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (to improve certain social policies). This is about a few fundamental changes to the current legislation of Ukraine that relate to the social protection of families with children and the provision of additional guarantees to working parents who have children with special needs. And the basics. I'll tell you a little bit about basic standards. The first basic rule. The government proposes that an additional annual paid leave be given to working parents who care for disabled people from childhood with the most severe health problem. It's about a disabled person from the childhood of subgroup A of the first group, they're the sickest kids. The second principle is position. We suggest that we continue to pay the child's three-year-old child to those who were assigned assistance at the birth of the child by June 30th, 14th. As you remember on July 1st, 14th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted an appropriate Ukrainian law that repealed that rule, but a conflict arose, which today is taken into account by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We must decide this coalition today by the law of Ukraine, not by the decree of the government. And a third possibility. We, the government today, are proposing to simplify the mechanism and the list of documents to assist with the birth of a child. That's the principle of our position. We insist today that fundamental reforms in the social sphere should begin with.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u153	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u154	All reforms in the social sphere should start with improvements in the quality of social services. Humans should not stand in a kilometre line in order to receive adequate social assistance from the State. And the decline in the amount of help, the decrease in the number of documents that, in particular, need to be helped with the birth of a child, is our first step. I want to announce right away that we will not be confined to that step. The next step is to significantly simplify the provision of housing and utility subsidies to our citizens, and we will simplify this service delivery system very significantly, especially when it comes to higher housing and utility prices. So I propose that this bill be supported. And thank you for your attention, and I hope for the positive decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u155	Thank you. For my report, I invite the head of the committee, Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u156	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I am very pleased to note that the new composition of the government and the Ministry of Social Policy is fully continuing the policy that was launched by the previous government. Because this bill was prepared in a previous draft, and we tried to hold it in the Supreme Council of the previous call, but unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not get to the point. I would like to add that the Committee on Social Policy and Employment and Pension Insurance has already considered this draft Law, supported it fully and proposes to be accepted as a basis. You know, all these decisions that have been and all the suggestions that have been made on the committee have given me the right to claim that we are proposing to adopt this bill on the basis and in general. Because he's perfect and he's really solving these social issues, and he's giving social guarantees to these people who are currently raising these kids. And families that have more than 55,000 children today. And as for women who won't get this help in 130 dollars, it's 126 thousand. So I very much ask, honourable national MPs, in general to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u158	Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u159	Oleg Berezuk, please. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, this law, this law of honor to women and mothers. That is why we must do so at this time without discussion, quietly and calmly. Everybody backs up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Gregory Nemira, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u162	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u163	Please, People's Deputy Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u164	Alona Shkrum, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! We really support this law, we strongly support the simplification of the bureaucracy that we have just talked about and reported to us. But at the same time, I want to draw your attention to some of the non-key points, but still very important points. For example, among the other provisions proposed by this law are amendments to the Law on State Aid for Families with Children. And to complement article 12 of this law with the provision that for the next 12 months, families that had the right to receive assistance at the birth of a child the size of the first child would be assigned a monthly allowance of 130 dollars a month. And all families, without exception, are assigned the same amount in the miserable 130 dollars. Then, as it was before. Colleagues, this is very important; it was previously assigned not the same, but was calculated according to the income of her family. And if it was a low - income family, if the total income per person was less than the subsistence minimum, the amount could have been between 130 dollars and 1,100 dollars. It's not as big an economy as we're getting right now, but once again we're saving up on the least protected population. That is why we still support this law, but we ask that we work on it before reading it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we know our minister, Paul Valeriovich Rosenck, as a professional and professional person. So I wanted to point him out that, in a strategic sense, the Ministry should do everything today to ensure that state policy in the social sphere is not politics and support, and that people are helped by humiliation and corruption, and that they respect a person who deserves the help of the state. So all the bills that allow people to get less in touch with officials, to kick out help, to convince them that they have the right to receive social assistance and benefits is one of the key worldview moments that this ministry of yours would have to provide. We're going to support this bill, because any simplification of the way from state aid to the person who needs it is good for social policy. Instead, Paul Valeriovich, you have a few suggestions to make in a broader sense. After the adoption of the budget, we had serious problems with how to start implementing certain projects that have moved into local communities. Dear colleagues, I would. Don't block it, please. There's no alcohol in there until the crossword puzzles are sold. And there's a situation. For example, on the committee yesterday, we discussed the nutrition of children in the Chernobyl area. This has been passed on to local communities. Local community tenders, of course, won't be able to make it, we've got January-February coming out. As a ministry, you'd have to be intimidated, and from March to April, local communities would take over. And such positions where there is no term between the idea of transfer of authorization. So please check and prepare such explanations so that local self - government knows that the Ministry of Social Policy with the people and with local communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u167	Andrew Lozova, Oleg Lazka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u168	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Bureaucracy is the devil's tool. And we have very often people who need social protection suffer from going from one sanction to another, and any reduction in these bureaucratic procedures will benefit Ukrainian citizens. And surely the Radical Party faction will support the bill. What's more, we're very often told, they're comparing the domestic economy to surgery, and they're constantly cutting something off. But he doesn't just cut off a good surgeon, he sews it up. And so it's very positive that, in the background, when you don't need the benefits that are often out of date, you're going to give extra benefits to those categories of people that really need them. And this law, in particular, helps children with disabilities from childhood, which is certainly a positive factor. And that is why I call upon you, my honourable colleagues, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor. I see all the performances are over. I'll give the minister a closing statement so he can express his position. I'm just curious, are we voting as a basis, or as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u170	Dear friends, I'm a colleague from Fatherland, and I want to say that all these payments that you've said to thousands of dollars, they're not cancelled, they're working now. Only 130 bracelets have been cancelled, and care for the child has been provided for up to three years. It was canceled in July, right. So we're just restoring it to those people who had the right to this help by July of the month, 130 bucks, that's all. Everything else pays off and now, believe me. So there's no problem in this project right now. I ask him to vote both on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I think that's quite a good offer. If something needs to be settled, we can make it change the law. But do not hold back, as was said with respect and respect for mothers. It is an additional social protection that improves the situation on this issue. And I think we can support it as a whole. Moreover, the position of both the government and the committee is common. So if there's no objection, I would ask all the national MPs to take their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote an extremely important bill, a draft law amending legislation (for the improvement of specific social policies), dear friends (registration number 1539). I would ask the National Deputies to take up their jobs to properly vote on this bill on the basis and in general. Ready to vote? I'm putting the bill to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall, welcome. Honorable People’s Deputies Prepared to Vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the improvement of certain social policies) (registration number 1539). Please vote on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general, please vote. [[13:21:53]] For 277 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next issue of the agenda, I have just received a bill for registration number 1767 for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. To be included in the agenda of the day session. It's signed by all factions of the coalition, People's Front, Peter Poshenko Block, Self-Help, Radical Party. The name of the Act is to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment for persons who are hiding in a temporary-occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of carrying out an anti-terror operation. Now I want to invite the Minister of Justice, so I understand that this is a common position of factions and governments to address this important issue. So please comment and give the information to the deputies, and then I'll put it to the vote. Paul Petrenko, please, Minister of Justice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, this bill is designed to improve the procedure for the late-criminal introduction of persons who have actually stolen the Ukrainian budget and are hiding in temporarily occupied areas. It's about former President Yanukovic, about his environment, what's called a family. Today, our law enforcement agencies have a number of cases, and tens of billions of dollars have actually been seized. The size of the funds that are currently under arrest, commensurate with the military budget, are those funds that have been arrested by the government and by law enforcement agencies. In order for us to complete the process of investigating these cases, these costs need to be changed to actual legislation in order for us to get into the Ukrainian budget and go to the Ukrainian people. Because, in fact, persons in occupied areas of Ukrainian territory find legal loopholes in order to avoid Ukrainian justice. We've had consultations with coalition factions. I am deeply grateful to the national deputies who cosponsored this amended law. And I'm very much asking that we put the daily bill into order now and after lunch we've accepted it as a whole. This is a bill that the government actually fully supports. We've cleared all of the counterversal standards that apply to specific confiscations. It's only about improving the procedure for criminal misdemeanors who are now hiding from Ukrainian justice that they are legally responsible and that we get the funds that are now essential to the Ukrainian army, to the Ukrainian law enforcement system and to the Ukrainian tax collectors and pensioners, first of all. Because it's about tens of billions of dollars that are now being arrested in both Ukraine and abroad. But in order for them to be confiscated, we need to complete the appropriate procedure by the courts. I sincerely ask you to support this bill now in the agenda and after lunch as a whole. We took into account all the proposals made by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council and the committee when he was considering a government bill. People’s deputies, who became authors, worked on this short but very important bill for Ukrainian justice. I am very much asking for your support, and I think that the authors of the bill will also explain in their speeches how important this bill is now for our judicial system, and above all, for the restoration of justice: the return of funds that have been stolen from the Ukrainians over the past four years. It's a challenge that we're facing, in fact, both before the international community that has imposed sanctions, and it's an arrest for the costs and the challenge facing the Ukrainian society. Please support me, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's a matter of joining the agenda. Signed by the factions of the coalition, considered on the committee, and then during the evening session, we will be conducting a review of this bill. It is important. And obviously, I don't think there's a difference of opinion here. To be included in the agenda of Bill 1767: The Act of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment for persons hiding in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of carrying out an anti-terrorist operation. For inclusion in the 1767 agenda. I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote on this matter. Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda. The Inevitability of Punishment. Please vote. [[13:26:41]] For 241 Decision taken. I'd like a profile committee. I'd like to ask, Paul Volodymyrovich, you, the minister of justice, together with the committee, to work with the factions, to prepare us to vote on the basis of this important bill at the evening session. Please arrange this work. Thank you, Your Honor. Next: Draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Vacation Act (for vacations to employees at the workplace in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation). Bill number 1543. I want to put it in a simplified procedure. Is there no objection? Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure for the consideration of Bill No. 1543. [[13:27:53]] For 205 Decision taken. Please welcome to the floor of the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today, there has been a situation that, in particular, counterterrorism operations do not always allow workers to stay in their workplaces, even within the boundaries of the conflict scene. From a moral point of view, though, such a lack is evident that it is not possible to view appearance without valid reasons in the workplace. With a view to preserving the working relationship between a worker and an enterprise, the government today proposes that workers be granted the right to leave without saving their wages for a place of employment in the territory of such anti-terrorist measures. This, on the one hand, will give you a chance to save your job. On the other hand, it is an opportunity for an employee to maintain his or her own employment, and so that his or her employment may be counted against him in subsequent insurance cases. So I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to take this bill on the basis of the faction's proposals, which we'll then say a little bit later, to work with it on the committee. Oksana, after you speak, I'll confirm our agreement. And then after that, I'm going to vote for him in this room for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u175	Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the Dennis Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u176	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You know that this bill has only been walking in the corridors of power for six months because the internal displaced persons have appeared not only for more than nine months. And it's certainly an additional social guarantee for those people who are moving to nowhere. To them, they leave their jobs, they can't break off their employment relationships with these enterprises that are still in the ATO area. And so we ask very much that the Supreme Council accept this as a whole. I don't know about these arrangements that are now between the ministers of Oksana Sales, right? - about bringing it in. I know that the European Association has asked to make some proposals. But I think if we bring this up again now, and we're going to do it for the next session, it's going to be very difficult. But if such suggestions do exist, then today accept as a basis, shorten the terms of consideration to second reading. And literally, if that's the case tomorrow, let's look at it. But I do propose, on the basis of the whole. And I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, we have two pros, two against. Please write this down. Oksana Sold, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Minister!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u179	Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u180	It's absolutely the right draft of the law, it's really necessary. But when this bill was drafted, it was forgotten that since January 1st, the Supreme Ralah made a mandatory contribution, a mandatory payment in full amount of the only social contribution for a full month's work, whether he worked or didn't work, was on leave without saving his salary or not. So when we vote in the first reading, we also propose that we take into account the amendments to the Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory Social Insurance, that, on leave without paying the salary, the only social contribution is not paid by the employer. Then this rule will work, and then employers will not pay for our decision with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u181	Please, People's Deputy Shkrum, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u182	Alona Shkrum, Fatherland. We will really support this bill, as we will support the remarks just made by my colleague Oksana Sold. In addition, it is a bill at the moment that operates according to common sense, and really those workers who do not go to work because of the danger to their life and health, they simply cannot be released for walking. And, of course, we haven't talked about this before. Thus, the bill guarantees their rights and obligations and really protects them. We will vote in favour, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u183	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it would be absolutely appropriate if we now accepted it as a basis and as a whole with the amendments that were announced by national deputy Oksana Sold. The Minister's closing statement. There's a proposal on the ground and in general, taking into account Oksana's proposals for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u184	Indeed, but to extend this to the participants, those in the area of anti-terror operation are entitled to this vacation. Because, really, I want to confirm, this law was enacted until this single social contribution rule came into effect. Therefore, this bill can certainly be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u185	Taking into account the revision announced by Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u186	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u187	Dear friends, there is understanding. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the voting room. There is an understanding that we should vote on this bill as a basis and in general, taking into account the proposals that the People's Deputies Prodan, Oxana Prodan, announced. Ready to vote? No, it's not. Please invite the deputies to the vote. People's deputies please come into the hall. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote on the basis and as a whole the draft Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Leaves for Employees at Work in the Area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in the light of a proposal announced by Oxana Prodan, a national deputy. Please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposal made by the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:35:57]] For 265 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Next question is the day-to-day draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Air Code. As for the procedure for consideration, I would like to vote on this bill for a reduced procedure, registration number 1542. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:36:31]] For 206 Decision taken. May the Deputy Secretary of Defense report, Mehed Petar Mikolaiovich. Please report this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u188	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill (registration number 1542) was developed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and provides for the acquisition of the status of subjects of state aviation, aircraft repairs that were transferred in 2011 from the Ministry of Defence to the Ukroborprom State Concert and other legal persons who conduct activities in the areas of the development, manufacture, repair and operation of state aircraft. Ucrobanprom is not one of the authorized central executives, so aircraft repair companies that are part of the concert have lost the right to legitimate use of the regulatory and legal base of state aviation, which has led to the need for appropriate amendments to the Ukrainian Air Code. At this time, the Ministry of Defence does not have the proper authority to regulate the preparation and execution of flights by aircraft, which may have negative effects in terms of flight safety. The list of subjects of state aviation will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for submission by the Ministry of Defence. This will allow, at the legislative level, state regulation by the Ministry of Defence of aviation repair companies and other legal persons. The implementation of the bill does not require additional budget spending. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u189	Please report to the Financial Committee. Head of the Transport Committee Jaroslav Dubnevich. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u190	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Air Code (No. 1542) (since 22.12.14) is proposed. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Air Code to clarify the concept of "State Aviation" in the areas of design, manufacturing, repair, disposal, etc. of state aircraft, their components, clarification of the concept of "State Aircraft" and the concept of "State Aviation". According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The Transport Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. May I have your support, fellow members of the National People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. You've heard the position of reporter and committee. It is recommended to adopt the bill as a basis. Please, Oleg Barna. From place to place, from place to place. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u192	On the question. Hello. Yeah, about the one we were supposed to say. So first of all, I want to point out that the privatization of enterprises, by returning as they did under the previous law, as long as there are any indications of state-owned enterprises that are a matter of appetite for certain oligarchs, will continue to be subject to questions about their privatization, even dark schemes. So I propose before asking questions about privatization of enterprises, including the alcohol industry, that they be properly audited for the absence of any corruption schemes that have artificially bankrupted them. And first of all, it's about the government and its Jacinyuk commander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u193	I would like to point out that in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the person who has received the word should speak essentially to the matter under consideration. That's for information. As for the last question. So I want to point out that this is a matter of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the government has been turned back for further work and I have called on all the national MPs to participate in the work of these decisions so that they can be considered qualitatively in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you. Please, Radical Party, National Deputy Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u194	Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk. We generally support this bill. We'll vote for him. At the same time, however, I would like to address the Minister of Defense and ask him not to send his interlocutors to the Parliamentary Hall to whom there are questions, namely: Mr. Mehed allowed Russian intelligence officers in 2007. And it's known throughout the country, there were journalistic investigations and so forth. I am surprised that this person works as a deputy minister. Moreover, he comes to Parliament to report laws. In general, we call for the support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u195	Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u196	May I have the floor to Olenia Sotnik?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u197	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor. In this case, we see once again a vivid example of the inadequacy of documents being prepared and offered for consideration today. Look, we have a few problems here. Yesterday, the European Integration Committee considered the bill and recommended that it be sent to the main committee for work in connection with the inadequacy of international certain instruments, namely, the International Aviation Convention. There's no such thing as terminology, that's the first. And secondly, the bill proposes that private private property be placed in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of this, we believe that a bill that does not meet international standards and is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be accepted and should be sent to the initiator of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u200	Please hand over Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u201	People's deputies please come into the hall, and we will now vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I wanted us to look closely at this bill, it consists of two parts. One part of the logic is completely understood. And our faction supports even first reading approval. But there's a second part. On what basis do we give these enterprises, which will be defined by the list of cabinets of ministers who are now in state-owned form of property, benefits from paying the tax on added value? Please answer, Deputy Minister. In general, as in the structure of a law that does not regulate tax legislation, this rule has emerged. We agreed that no rules that provide benefits could exist separately from tax legislation. That's why I'd like this to go through with the transcript, we don't have the right to decide where the VAT benefit rule is. So if we're voting in the first reading of this rule, it's directly contrary to the budget code. And I think the government doesn't have the extra money they're going to spend, the more private companies under the roof. The other one. The request to bring the entire terminology of this law into line with the international specification to the requirements of European legislation. These are two warnings. And so we have a request, in no way to vote on this law as a whole. Only in the first reading of these two warnings. And answer me, why do you need the VAT benefit, even more so, in a non-profile law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u203	Thank you. We're going to be closing down now. I'll give the opportunity, and as a whole, I understand the proposal is this: based on excluding VAT-related issues, VAT aid, and preparation for second reading. Yes. People's deputies please come into the hall and give the deputy minister a moment, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u204	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have requested that the two articles be amended. With respect to VAT, we didn't raise anything, so I agree with the faction of Fatherland and I support it. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we have deputies in the hall? Dear colleagues, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let us now begin our voting for the bill – draft law amending the Ukrainian Air Code (for subjects of state aviation) (registration number 1542). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to vote for the bill. We will vote on the basis, as provided for by the decision of the committee of profile, but with the exception, at the suggestion of the National Deputy of Sobolev, of the rules relating to the Tax Code, such as the VAT aid. Except for this standard. Please put to the vote on the basis of the first reading, with the exception of the question put by the National MP Sobolev, please vote on the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading, please vote. [[13:48:22]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Did everyone vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] There are no people in the room. Honorable National MPs. Well, I see the factions didn't get everyone to vote. Head of the committee, please. And invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u206	Dear Mr. Head! I have a proposition that let's return the bill to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u207	Government or Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u208	Yeah, for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u209	To the committee or to the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u210	To the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u211	To the government? You know, I think it's most appropriate to take these bills to the parliamentary level, where you can immediately work out these decisions, take into account Parliament's opinion, and then step out of the agreed position. If we don't have any agreed position before the second reading, I mean, it's just not going to be voted on. Oleg Berezuk, please, the Self-Help faction. So, what? We're going back, and we're just going to prolong the problem. All of it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Head, you're right. But what I'm saying is, we have to teach our coalition government to bring in quality laws and for first reading. We get nothing for working for them. So our principle is that the government should start drafting quality laws. We will support them in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u213	Friends, don't forget one more thing that the bill prepared by the government was held by a committee of profile. There are deputies, including our colleagues, who are experts in this field, and they also make their proposal for a vote in the first act on the basis of this bill. But to prepare for the second reading, we can prepare with you. I'm not just talking about this bill, I'm talking about the bill. We go into the Parliament course, we look, we have understanding, we have what can be voted on, then we vote. Please, National Deputy Capplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u214	You don't have to build an illusion that the government will start drafting quality drafts. I think we should invite the people's deputies to the hall, vote in the first reading and work nicely already, as you say, on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, the government in terms of coalition across Parliament is uncompetitive in terms of the possibility of preparing documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, let's not discuss this for long. I'm underlining that I'm asking the people's deputies to return. I'm asking the people's deputies to return. Well, there was a word from the faction already. Another word? Come on, 20 seconds. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u216	I'd very much like us not to tarnish our coalition government. It has the ability and resources to be successful in drafting bills. Give him a chance to work and learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u217	And I can say the next thing that I don't share a coalition and a government. It's the same thing, coalition and government is the same thing. So, honourable colleagues, there can always be better ideas in Parliament than in any ministry, and vice versa. That's why. We just voted on two previous decisions that were social, which were prepared, which were qualitative. And there were no questions. We don't praise the government here. Please, Baby, it's closing. And we'll vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u218	Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, I'm looking at this discussion, and I'm looking at the event in Volnovas, events in the east of our country. So if our fighters were to see you and me go from empty to empty hours, I think millions of people watching us are wondering, are we living in a space where there is no problem, and we can talk for hours about where to go: to a government or to a committee? People are good, let's work, not talk! We've made decisions, we've gone ahead with the next decision to make, we're not going to kick ass, we're going to kick ass, we're going to kick ass, and we're going to kick ass. It's not that big a deal! 23 years in one place, we're just pounding and talking instead of doing it. Then I urge you to work and vote. You don't know how to vote. Get your bags and get out of here, who doesn't want to, who's on the front, who's on the front, who's somewhere else. Guys, excuse me, she's not eating or getting any sleep. They're taking the last one. There's aggression in the country, and you and I don't know what we've been talking about for hours! Fear God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There was a proposal by the chairman of the committee that considered the bill to return to its consideration in connection with the absence of deputies in the hall. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare, and I've already invited everyone who might have been. I am voting on the return to Bill No. 1542. Please vote. Return. Please be supportive. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration. [[13:53:52]] For 205 None. 205. I am voting on the return of the subject of the legislative initiative to work. Please vote on the return to pre-processing. [[13:54:14]] For 241 Thank you. The bill's back. Dear colleagues, we have the following Bill No.1545 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets on Disclosure of Information. There's Deputy Minister Lisovenko. I'm going to put this bill under review with a reduced procedure. Now let's see what position we have -- whether we are consolidated or not -- on this point. Please, Your Honor, I'm proposing a reduced procedure, registration number 1545. [[13:55:14]] For 205 Decision taken. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Please Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! We're going to work until 2:00, and I'm going to continue for 15 minutes using my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for allowing us to report this law. The law on the one hand is technical, but it's very important. Why? Because its purpose is to provide more order and transparency in regulating the activities of financial institutions. The only goal we want to offer it is, by the way, supported by a profile committee. This requires all market participants, i.e. all financial institutions should put all necessary information on their activities, on their substantial participation, on shareholders, on the Supervisory Board, on financial plans, on the single Internet portal to use consumers. That is, in this way we introduce the obligation to provide such information. This time. The other one. Entering the concept of "one window." So it's going to be very easy for the consumer to go to a single portal and see the whole picture of the financial institution. Now this information is scattered across different bases. And it's very hard for the consumer to find this information and make a decision. Financing the creation of this single base will mostly be funded by technical assistance. Moreover, this law is in the matrix for receiving 250 million Euros from the European Union to the State Budget, which we expect in February. Therefore, a great request to vote, to support. And the committee also unanimously supported this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, let us consult. Now 13.57, the report will be a reporter. I think we can now announce the adjournment of the morning session and start at 4:00 from the co-rapporteur's report. Any suggestions? Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u222	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, a respected colleague, is a very simple law reported by the deputy minister of finance regarding disclosure of information about companies that do not provide services to citizens. And there's nothing more complicated here. So I would suggest that I vote this law as a basis and as a whole by noon. This is a simple and important law that makes the public activity of appropriate companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m0.u223	Yeah, come on, all right. Dear colleagues, then we can vote, I understand. No one has objections. On the basis and in general. All right, good fellows. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. I put, at the suggestion of the People's Deputies, to a vote Bill No. 1545 amending the Ukrainian Financial Services Act and the State Regulation of Financial Services Markets on Disclosure of Information. At the suggestion of the deputies, for the main one and for the whole. Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? Let's vote, based on and in general, registration number 1545. We vote on the basis and in general. [[13:58:58]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation at 2 p.m., I announce the conclusion of the morning session. I'm underlining! We still have many matters of order that we need to consider at the evening session, of vital importance. So I'd like to ask the heads of the factions of all the national deputies at 4:00 to continue our work at the evening session. Thank you, Your Honor.
