ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of the session. Heads of factions, please mobilize a special warehouse to participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to come into the hall so that we can start our work. It's not enough for us to get started. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the hall, we'll start our work. Please prepare for registration, your honor. Please, Your Honor, we're taking our seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the hall. [[10:08:55]] Registered -279 279 national deputies registered. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Parliament is involved: Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Welcome, Arseny Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, welcome. Welcome to the government. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Let's welcome him on his birthday, Reverend Victor Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we are today spending the "Year of Questions to the Government" Friday. Accordingly, I invite the minister of education and science to the rostrum for the report Sergio Mironović Kwit. Please be back in 20 minutes. After he was Minister of Health, Alexander Kwiatschvili Please. Before that, Sergey Mironovich, I would like to inform you that on June 4, 2015, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine elected on the electoral run-off of the Ukrainian National Deputies on October 26, 2014, Zubbaj Lubomir Lvivitch included in the electoral list of the political "Unification of Self-Help". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Lubomir Lvivitch Zubac, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u3	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u4	We wish you success, dear fellow! Welcome to the office. Please, Your Honor, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Mr. Sergey Miranovic, is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I refer to those who were interested in the questions that came to the Ministry of Education and Science. We have a question from several factions. So the first question from the People's Front is why is the introduction of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act being halted? No introduction, I think the implementation of the Higher Education Act is not stopped, it's going completely. And I'm special. There's another question, I'll talk about the documents that are being prepared, accepted. They're over 50, these documents. This will be a separate question. So implementation takes place in full motion. Next. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine has received numerous appeals from scientific and pedagogical staff of higher education institutions and so on in connection with the adoption of the Cabinet Ordinance on the Approval of the List of Sectors, Knowledge and Specialities under preparation." And the problem is that there are not many strategically important fields of knowledge and expertise, such as physical, economic, and social geography, cartography, pedagogical education, and so on. Was this document publicized? Why aren't most of the proposals coming from higher education institutions taken into account?" Dear colleagues, this document, a new list of fields and specialities, is one of the main in reforming higher education, because this is the basis for creating new principles for teaching programs in higher education institutions. In the past, government standards were strict in regulating what and how to teach students at universities. Now all the attention is focused not on regulating the learning process as a kind of bureaucratic procedure, but now we're focusing on competences, which is the results of a student at the university that he needs to know and know. The way this is achieved is that it refers to university autonomy, now in Ukraine, like all over the world, it's the prerogative of the universities themselves. As part of a new list of specialties, they will form themselves, or universities will form their own educational programs or specializations, depending on their own academic powers. Now we're licensing a major and we're accrediting specializations. So now the university has a lot more capacity to respond to job market requests and to form those educational programs, those specialties that are directly needed, for example, in a particular region or at a certain time, and this is already a university autonomy. It's very important for what. A very important moment, which is affected by another list of fields of specialization, is the ability to reduce the academic workload of teachers from 900 hours per year to 600 hours per year. Those who have a bearing on higher education understand how important this is. Since the Soviet authorities viewed the job of a teacher as a person who should say something to students in an audience, but a teacher in a higher education institution should have time to publish, conduct scientific research, and so forth. And a new list of fields of knowledge and expertise gives us the opportunity to change the learning process accordingly. And we're also talking about what should be at least 25 percent of the objects for choice, interdisciplinary provision and so on. And then I mentioned, colleagues of our deputies were concerned about why there was no educational education. That's not the case, because we have a separate field -- education -- and appropriate specialties -- is the science of education: pre-school education, primary education, secondary education in the lists of specializations, vocational education, as well as in the lists of specializations, special education, physical culture and sports – all of this is teacher education. It's all teacher education. Also when we're talking. It mentioned the absence of geography, we have a field of Natural Sciences and geography related to Earth science. That means that there's a geography, all of the other types of geography that's there. It could be economic geography, social geography and so on -- all of these specializations, all of these educational programs that universities can run without asking anyone. It's very important. Next question. Also from the People's Front. There are a lot of problems with the implementation of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. In accordance with the Government’s mandate, a plan for the implementation of the law has been developed: how many normative acts envisaged by the plan have already been prepared; how many have not been completed by June 1 this year; what normative documents will be prepared and approved in the near future. Now, I've already mentioned this, it's over 50 documents. What's going on in there? These include, in fact, legal acts (these decisions and government decrees), they include changes and additions to separate laws, they include orders from the minister and other ministries of documents. Today, if we're talking about legislation, it's going to be 35. Today, on June 1, 25 were developed and 8 (adopted). In the near future, more will be adopted. There are only 25 normative acts, because they are somewhere at the final stage of consent or at the signature. I can count them. If I have to, I'll count all these legal acts. And you also have to say that some of them aren't developed, because this is already going to be a prerogative, for example, of the National Agency for the Quality of Education, which is now being formed, and especially the elections are taking place today. And one of the documents. I'll say, for example, one of the documents that the National Quality Agency is going to develop is the fight against plagiarism. And we're not waiting for such a special document, and every month at the College of the Ministry of Education and Science, we're taking down the scientific degrees of those people who have defended themselves with plagiarism. And I don't think there's any such examples in the post-Radians space. Also, we are not waiting for special permits and documents, I apologize. Every month we close a few dozen higher education institutions, i.e. we stop their licenses -- these are educational institutions or their branches, which are in fact also educational institutions -- so that we don't have such educational institutions that have a license, but cannot provide licensing conditions. So they can't guarantee the quality of teaching. The third question is also the People's Front. "There are numerous requests from science and education workers to violate the procedure for the election of higher education leaders, such as the violation of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act." Elections are allowed for persons who do not have a proper degree in scientific and pedagogical work and do not speak the national language. Such facts took place at the Cherka National University of the name Bogdan Hmelnicky, in the State Institute of Decorative Art of the Name Boychuk. This is actually about these two universities.".. The State Institute for the Decorative Art of Boychuk, I confirm that. However, a person who is a rector cannot speak the national language. And she presented her program in Russian. So two weeks ago, I stopped the election process with what we're organizing for this person's public language exams. Although he presented documents that he was almost Ukrainian, he did not. And he's going to have a separate exam, and we're going to see if we're going to continue this election or not. But I think it'll be impossible for him. Regarding the Cherka National University of Bogdan Hmelnickýk, the Ministry of Education and Science, and also, I think, a lot of national deputies have been complained that Alexander Czervko, who was elected Rector, is allegedly not having the necessary internship, that is not the case, we have been vetting and as a result of these complaints are now being investigated by law enforcement authorities, and the relevant documents are all that Alexander Czervko has all the necessary documents and he has the necessary internship. But what I want to say is that, and it's very evident that people who are very, very active in complaints and in clauses, I would say, are very often themselves in this situation, and all of these complaints have been sent by the Rector of the University of State of Technology against which seven criminal cases have been violated. I mean, if you thought it wasn't even a complaint, I'd say it was a slide. Next. The next question is from Self-Help. "What plan for the use of funds allocated for development and improvement in military pulpit in higher education institutions in Ukraine?".. Dear colleagues, there are no special funds allocated to the pulpit, because the opening of the pulpit is brought by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Education and Science has its own initiatives, and we and our initiatives to discover the pulpit are addressed to the Ministry of Defence. If necessary, we give and take initiatives to transfer, for example, some property, some real estate, so that these pulpits may exist. And also through government procurement, these personnel are being prepared. But the Ministry of Education and Science has no special funds for this, but we have contributed greatly to the discovery of such pulpits, and we work very closely with the Ministry of Defence, and we have very close cooperation. Also self-help, second question. Will the Ministry of Education and Science be working on a bill approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on scientific and scientific and technical activities, and when is the Cabinet of Ministers planning to submit it? We literally work every day to improve this law and other laws. We are planning to import for next week on Friday, this will be a meeting where there will be a whole block of education and science. In particular, yesterday, I had two meetings with experts, one with regard to the Basic Education Act and the other with regard to the Science and Science and Technology Act, which means that we are constantly working and constantly at work. Third question from Self-Help. Is there a plan in the Ministry of Education and Science to amend Ukrainian legislation for the effective participation of scientists in Horizon 2020? Of course, that is the plan. We've been working for over a year to get Ukraine into this big project, which is worth 80 billion euros. This is a large grant project that is the heir to the so-called Seventh Framework Program. And Ukrainian scientists from universities and academic institutions have been participating in the Seventh Framework Program for many years, and Tempus and Erasmus Mundus and so on. Now these are slightly different names, they're reshaped. So we have a special program. We've created a system of national contact points. We've developed an implementation plan. And it's not easy because we have to involve scientists, encourage them. And what are the scientists who can participate in writing these grants? These may be English - speaking scientists. We need to develop contacts with universities, especially the European Union, but not just the European Union, because universities can also participate in these programmes. We need to create a large consortium. So this is a very, very large task. And we're completely immersed in these tasks. Why do we need Horizon 2020? Because we, in our country now, do not have enough funding, so to speak, for scientific research. And on the basis of competitiveness, on a competitive basis, our scientists, academic institutions, universities can make a lot of money. I also want to say that as a result of the talks conducted by our ministry, we were given a 95 percent discount. Who needs a discount of 95 percent, colleagues, come on, we can provide counselling. And we hope that the money we have to pay for the next five years is about 37 million euros. These costs are going to be halved because we're going to get that help back. And we are also conducting further negotiations to make our participation as comfortable as possible for Ukraine. I also have a few questions from the faction of Peter Dusty. The question is: The economic effect of shutting down incomplete schools will be felt in a year, but there are problems with the shortage of school buses. What steps does the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine take to address this issue? The shortage of buses is very strong. A few hundred buses were taken for military purposes to the ATO zone. It's very sharp. So, first of all, our position that we're sounding everywhere is that this is the first state program that needs to be restored, the school bus. Because we're still looking at optimisation of schools. It's a very big question. We have such educational institutions where there is no teaching process at all. And children who learn formally will never be able to enter universities, it is unacceptable. Quality issues, this is problem number one. What are we doing? We have small funds that have already been allocated. That's enough, I think on 40 or 50 buses, that's not enough. So we're also running what we're doing with a non-state budget. But I hope that the government budget will find the cost of school buses. But what we do is we communicate with those companies that make them. Because school buses, it's very, very specific, they're equipped. And there are campaigns that can and can produce them. There are different options. In particular, these campaigns are somewhere to blame for state funds. And we're talking about having them produce and supply these buses at the expense of their debts. So this is the thing that we're in control of. And we understand how important it is. The second question is the last question. No, three more. From the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko. Will there be financial support for the material and technical provision of public education schools for adoption of administrative reform? We're making funding this year through an educational subsidy. It's paid on time. And even, I think it's because of some tension the day before the local elections. In two areas, rumors spread that some of the teachers might be delayed on vacation payments. We worked with the Ministry of Finance, and once again we found that we had no delays, and the subsidy was paid in time, so you know that the local budgets had increased. But obviously this is more about our so-called state programs, all of which were canceled on March 1st last year because of the war. So what our ministry is doing outside these government programs. What can we say specifically? In the fall, I think by October, 23,500 Chinese computers will be arriving in Ukraine, which is Chinese aid, and it wasn't easy for us to work, but we'll have computer security. And anyway, of course, what we're talking about when we reform secondary education, we're moving to a training school, and a training school is going to require special equipment for material security, and we're going to work in that direction. Third question from Peter Dustenk's Block. Is it possible to index wages for teachers? Incentives for the salaries of employees in education institutions, as well as for all budget holders, will be achieved from the available financial resources of the state’s local budget this year. So today I can't say the exact date and how this will pay off the whole indexation, but the indexation is paid, especially in higher education institutions. So here's a question, so what are the possibilities of the state budget? And the last question from Peter Dustock's Block. The vast number of educations for the mandatory implementation of the WNP for all 9-11 graduates. What view did the minister have of the proposal? I don't think it's the vast majority of educated people who think it is, but I can tell you what I think. We have to make some changes to the external independent evaluation next year and, in particular, we have to combine state aggregate certification, DPA, and ZNO into all three objects. This year we've only combined the Ukrainian language, for the next year we have to combine all of them. So we also have some suggestions on how we're going to develop, develop external independent evaluation, because it's going to increase, especially in the context of the adoption of new laws that we're going to introduce next week. Dear colleagues! I finished answering these questions. Perhaps there will be further questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u6	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues, as always, we have order next. Let's get this over with. 30 minutes to ask. Recording, asking questions. Please, Sergey Mironovich, take your seats. Sergey Mironovich, please take your seats. Minister of Health of Kvetashvili, please. Dear colleagues! I have one request for you. The ministers are speaking, and the audience is extremely noisy and careless. Let's focus. Those who speak will understand that they are not interested in the issue of health care and will be called by name, who is not interested in health issues in the country. We got a deal, all right? Everything seems to have support. And so, colleagues, on Parliament’s rostrum, the minister of health. Please concentrate. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u7	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! We should have a presentation, I'll ask if you can let it go. First slide, please. We will present a package of bills that will be submitted to the Supreme Council for your consideration. I'm hoping for your support. This is probably the first and most important step towards reforming health. The system is already working with a big violin, huge financial problems. Today we will contain a vast infrastructure that is outdated, which is old. There are no new technologies. Access to quality medicine is very limited. It is mainly concentrated in large cities, including the city of Kiev. We need to change the system so that everyone can get quality housing services. Therefore, geographical access is very and very important to ensure. The first step in reform is the transition period that we will be working on next year. It is very important to prepare a system for new innovations as insurance medicine as a new type of investment in the system, but most importantly, the network works properly. In order for insurance to enter the country, the State was able to use social insurance to provide services to its citizens. Five strategic tasks facing the Ministry of Health: changes in the financing of the health system; Funding changes and primary medicine management are the shift to a perceptive principle of hoofing financing, new forms of hospital sector management. The need for the public monopoly to come out of this sector and more freedom and autonomy given to the network to build a new public health system is very important, because Pablik Hells is a guarantee of the health of the nation. That's why we have to invest and develop this system. Naturally, this provision of medicines and medicines is accessible to the entire population. What we're proposing (the next slide, please). We propose changes in the legal status and autonomy of health institutions. This means the transition from a budgetary institution to a state-owned utility, an economic society or other institutional and legal form, in accordance with existing Ukrainian legislation. This does not mean privatization. We're not selling hospitals, it's not in our plans, and it's not going to happen. It is simply possible to have autonomy in the management of the organization so that they can earn their own money. Today, we know that about two thirds of the financial turnover that is on the hospital and medical network is not formal. It's money that's not accounted for, they're not taxed. It's money that comes from a patient directly into a doctor's pocket or through charity funds. We want these services, for which we all know de facto that people are paying for them to be legalized and that hospitals have the opportunity to make legal money. Legal decision. Next slide, please. The main characteristics of the changes. Decisions on the legal form of institutions will be taken by the relevant local authorities. And we follow the principle of decentralization; we want local authorities to decide what forms, what forms of government will be. The legal form of status will be the institutions and they will take these decisions on the ground. Agencies will manage their budgets independently, develop financial plans for institutional development, and make effective use of resources. Of course, we will be very much in control of how money will be spent. Contractual basis to be provided. Established in the country, contracts will be developed by the Ministry of Health and the service provider will be able to work on this contractual system. Institutions will be able to attract funds from private funds and donors that will help them invest in modern technologies to provide modern patient health care. Today it is very difficult for private money to get into the health system because, in principle, hospitals do not even have the capacity to work with private insurance companies. We want to give them the opportunity to rent new technologies, new equipment and expand the services that they can provide to the population today. In the future, the health system will benefit from the legalization of hidden payments, as I mentioned, which today account for 60 to 70 per cent of all health expenditures. In fact, we only provide one third of the spending that is needed for the system to function. Next slide, please. Change of funding. What we propose is: change in the financial health system, 2015, it will be a transitional year from cot to service funding. This process should take some time. It is not possible to move the entire vast country from one principle to another in one day or one month. Therefore, we need time to first develop global budgets for hospitals to start, to learn to spend money properly, to manage our hospitals properly, and only then will we be able to do so. We also need calculations, of course, on the treatment protocols to be adopted in Ukraine, those that have already been approved for treatment, the services are correct and the State is able to pay for services. All hospitals and all medical facilities will receive the same amount of money they received, and they will have no financial loss. Next slide, please. The main changes in the funding system are the global budget, which means that hospitals and medical institutions will form their budgets from three sources: government money, the central budget and the local budget; these are the sources of funding that they can get for themselves; that is, for some services, services added, investments and so on. All of this will form a global budget that will be spent on institutions, investment and so on. The separation of the customer and the service provider is very important because Ukraine, one of the few countries I think, has only two countries left where the State is both the contracting authority and itself provides services, itself pays and itself controls quality, it is wrong. Quality control must, of course, be public, but it must be shared with the customer and the network that will provide the services. Local government authorities will request the establishment of health services required for residents, and the cost of services will be calculated on the basis of protocols of treatment by Ukrainian and international experts in the framework of World Bank projects. The World Bank is a huge $215 million project that will help develop the health system. We have a very large expert group to work on the development of a financial plan, the development of costs and calculations under treatment protocols. It is very important for the system to function properly, to create a single health management information system, HMAS as an English-language abbreviation, it is a necessary cost management tool, a tool to create a unified patient register. And we have, thank God, financials and the World Bank to help us build this system. The electronic management system is also important to enable the State to respond quickly to future or problems, or simply to fund the system quickly so that there is no delay and right statistics. Today we have a problem because the statistics we get are or very much. Either six months late, or they're just wrong because they're calculated in beds, and we need the right statistics to build the system properly. Next slide, please. I'm paying for medical services. For medical services. It's very important because doctors are getting it today. Doctors and medical personnel are getting poor salaries officially, and we want them to be officially paid. Change in the principle of remuneration, deviating from fixed-term salaries to salaries for services rendered under contract between the agency and the staff member. These model contracts will also be developed by the ILO and will be passed on to all agencies as a recommendation. Of course, Minhrav will advise everyone who does. a whole network that will move on to new principles of governance. Establishment of a primary medical unit. Local authorities will order health care services for residents from the institution. The cost of services will be calculated on the basis of treatment protocols by Ukrainian and international experts. We need to strengthen primary medicine, it is working very poorly today, and there is a large shortage of primary health care doctors throughout the country. Most importantly, we must bring medicine to every resident on the ground so that they do not move too far or seek qualified medical care. Next slide, please. Where do we want to go? It's not tomorrow, it's the future. We want Ukraine to be a socially oriented State, to spend its finances properly and to help people, and to provide that category of people with services that they cannot afford. Today we give everyone a few, and no one misses it. Not enough for the poor, so those who have the financial opportunity to add from their pocket receive better, better services. Those who do not have the opportunity to do so should simply or minimally be satisfied with minimal services. The idea is that we must give all Ukrainian citizens a guaranteed package of services. This includes primary care, emergency medical care, all services for children under 3 years of age, socially dangerous diseases, of course. The State will also finance public health, of course, all the public programmes that exist today. For socially disadvantaged families, we would like to do a package of services that will cover 100 per cent of their needs. This package can be financed either directly through payment of services or through social insurance programmes that we want to implement by the end of this year. For less vulnerable families, the service package would not be 100 per cent but would be additional. For the rest of us, we want everyone to have access to quality medicine throughout the country. Next slide, please. You can't see very well here, but I'll tell you, this is our business plan. So July 2015, July 2016 is one year, it's a transitional period. This is a change in the status of the health institution, change in approaches to system financing, optimization of the network, strengthening the management of the network of health institutions by procurement, the introduction of a single health information system, the establishment of a basic and additional package of health services. That's what we're planning this year. Adaptation of protocols is already under way in July. This job is already under way. And we want to continue with the rapid adoption of modern protocols for treatments so that the calculation of services can begin. In July-October, we will develop model contracts for the hospital and medical personnel, and we will work with the network to enable them to work on a new principle. From September to December, we will already develop a guaranteed package of services. It takes time, i.e. it takes time, and we will try to prepare financially well for it. Also September-December 15th, this is the development of a complete package of health services for socially vulnerable groups. The legal status of health institutions will begin to change in August. Since September, standards in the health information system will be developed and the information system will already be in place starting this autumn. October-December is the development of a mechanism to finance health services, including social insurance for disadvantaged groups. January-July is the gradual introduction of a package of health services for the development of the population category. March-July is a country-wide detailed assessment of the system based on a master plan that will cover all necessary services throughout the country. We need, as I said, to develop a new hospital master plan so that the whole country is covered with a network of proper, normal, modern hospitals so that people can get to the nearest institution very quickly and get adequate, qualified assistance. Next slide, please. What we'll get out of it. Patients will receive that money will follow patients, they will be guaranteed services throughout the country, and the State will pay for services wherever the person is geographically located. Medical personnel. The advantage is that doctors will not be attached to one agency, they will be able to work on a contractual basis in different cases if necessary and possible. And naturally, income and pay will depend on their workload, and we are confident that this will change very quickly for the better, and that doctors will receive a normal salary that is adequate for their work. The State, for a State, is the proper financing of the industry, based on an analysis of health indicators and the quality of services. It is the right and effective use of funds. And of course it's quality control through.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u8	Thank you, Minister. Please take your place. Dear colleagues! Please be prepared. We now have 30 minutes to figure out the questions and the answers. Please be prepared to report to the Cabinet. Please, dear colleagues, we register, questions, answers. Please, Your Honor, Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u9	Dear Lord Chairman! Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. There was no cleansing of power. Those leaders who worked under Yanukovich's command are still in power. Some were simply transferred from one area to another. In the Ministry of Public Administration, old personnel are returning to the state. Please tell me, when will the cleansing of authority take place? Question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u10	Please, Your Honor, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u11	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Welcome to the Ukrainian Parliamentary Coalition, the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine arrived today for an hour of questions to the government. And I'd like to start our communication today with a few answers to questions and inform you what the Ukrainian government is doing and what are the basic tasks now. I would like to go to Parliament with the fact that, unfortunately, during this plenary week, eight bills were not voted in order to reform the public finances system, to carry out additional anti-corruption measures, and to meet all the conditions and requirements that Ukraine faces in order to obtain funds from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Today, there are two bills in the agenda that are very important, these are bills on the independence of the National Bank. Similarly yesterday, unfortunately, there were not enough votes to vote on Ukraine’s Law to amend Ukraine’s legislation on moratorium. That is why the honourable members of Parliament and the honourable parliamentary coalition, 70 percent of the laws passed by the coalition government, unfortunately, do not vote in parliament. And as part of the latest trends, I ask that the Parliamentary Coalition, which brought its members to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from the "Peter Prashenko Block", from the "National Front", from the "Fatherland", from the Radical Party and from "self-help", support laws that are being prepared and submitted for consideration by the coalition government itself. This coalition government has not merely implemented the Law on Illustration, but is the main one conducting the illustration in the country. Senior government officials, both ministers and government officials at the level of deputy ministers, are looking at the first deputy ministers. For example, in answer to a question about the illustration, today the liberated chief of the Kiev police, who has fallen under the illustration. Similarly, all law enforcement agencies in the country and in general in the State Service have daily replacements and checks of personnel. Hundreds of officials have lost their jobs, and now the task facing the government, despite the fact that there is a major resistance to the release of officials, prosecutors, militias, law enforcement personnel, is not going to be able to destroy the Book of Illustration Act. And that is why I am asking members of the Parliamentary Coalition to support the position of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the need to continue the illustration in the country. And would you like the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to give a brief account of how the Department works on illustrations, what problems we have, and how do we see the replacement of corrupt officials and the updating of the entire government service in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Please, Justice Minister Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u13	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. The distinguished national deputies, indeed, are now in Ukraine with an extensive illustrative examination of all civil servants. As of today, the central authorities have passed this check, and we have moved to the district level. The basic challenges in power and in the public are at the district level when illustrative testing takes place. Hundreds and thousands of civil servants, starting with district officials, their deputies, their leaders, and their respective local authorities. And here is the very important support of our national MPs, our journalistic environment, so that those corrupt people who try to avoid illustrative checks, moving to lower positions, will be shown. And because of public information, we released them. Similarly, leaders were released who tried to cover their subjects and not allow their illustrative examination. I would like to inform you that a bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice today, together with Parliament, to improve the work of the relevant illustrative bodies. This bill is being reviewed by the Venice Commission. And I want to disappoint all those members of Parliament, the representatives of the Party of Regions who had the hope of repealing the Book of Illustration Act, you're not going to be able to do that. The Venice Commission, their experts and the Ukrainian Parliament will clearly preserve the Law on the Cleanse of Power. Because this is the basis for an update from the corrupt past that we got from the President, former President Yanukovic and his environment. Today, many officials who have failed to confirm their property status are released from various positions in the central authorities, starting with fiscal authorities, ministries, authorities. The vast number of senior officials, more than one and a half thousand people, under the Yanukovic regime, who were ministers, heads of the administration of President Yanukovic, his immediate surroundings, have no right to hold the highest positions in the country for the next 10 years. This means that they will not be able to make a rematch and will not be able to bring Ukraine back from the European path. So, honourable people's deputies, I ask you in all matters of illustration to support us, to support the committee of profile led by Egor Sobolev. And I am convinced that we will end the process of cleansing of power and that Ukraine will indeed be a European country without this shameful past that we have inherited from Yanukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u14	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u15	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I want to answer your accusation that we do not accept laws. Believe me, we really want to help you. I recommend you just to look at the quality of these bills that we've returned, and you'll see that there's not only legal problems, there's also grammatical errors. And that's the question for you. Arsenius Petrovich, according to the actual price rise in April, the subsistence minimum for people who don't work must be 1 thousand 842 bracelets, now it's 940, provided. I'd like to ask you if you'd like to see the index soon? And the second question, please tell me, do you have a report from the Parliament's working group on tariffs, or will it be considered? We ask you to invite us to the government when we consider this working group. And are you willing to admit that tariff issues need to be reviewed?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u16	Thank you so much for asking. The drafting of bills is important and it is important that laws passed by parliament are quality laws passed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And in order for them to be of quality, it is necessary to raise the professional level of both the Cabinet of Ministers and the individual National Deputies of Ukraine, to the great regret that they also have problems with both spelling and punctuation, and even with the general content of what is written in the law. As for the two questions you raised. And this is a question that stands in the order of the day country as a whole. Index and tariffs. Now, of course, before the local elections, individual coalition members, including, unfortunately, your faction, are using both indexation and tariff issues for narrow political purposes. In order to give the impression that one faction of the coalition is the best, and all the other factions of the coalition that support a rather complex decision in today's situation, that they cannot claim to be called fighters for the interests of the people of Ukraine. So when I answer your question, I will say the following. I'm the first to index citizen's income. Because it's a government reputation, it's a coalition reputation, and it's an additional source for Ukrainian citizens to get and be able to increase the purchasing power of citizens. And that's an additional source to start the economy. So, I wanted to consult you on this, how am I going to do? We have one of these companies called the Scrooge, you probably know that. This company Crooknaft, for the first time, we voted on a law that did not allow the government to regain control of the company Crooknaft. For the second time, the government passed this law. And thank you for the parliamentary coalition's adoption of the bill. And we've just called a general stockholder meeting to change the company's management along with another shareholder. Why change the management of the company? Because we need to get 1.8 billion dollars to the government budget, this is dividends, and about 6 billion dollars, this is the income from the rent that the company has to pay. And it's going to go to the state budget to use these funds to raise social standards. But what a problem the government faced. And I wanted to consult. Because I know that Julia Volodymyrna had a personal connection to this. It turns out we can't change the management of the company. And you know why? Because in 2009, the Cabinet of Ministers signed an agreement between the company with the then Prime Minister, Yulia Timoshenko. between the shareholders of the company Skrnafta and the state, according to which, only if the government starts to change the management of the company Skrnafta, the government will answer to the London Court with a subpoena of about $5 billion, as the agreement provides that the change of company and the change in management of the company is not possible by the state. And if the state exercises its right to change the direction of this company, we go to London right now and we're responsible for the breach of this agreement, and there's fines up to $5 billion. So I would very much ask for help from your faction personally and from the leader of your faction: how do I get out of this situation? As far as tariffs are concerned, I would also like to ask for your help in your faction, too, Your Honor, Mrs. Kugel. Why? Because you have a very great experience, an extremely great experience in gas issues. And now that gas contract is signed, we're suing Russia's Gazprom in Stockholm. The total amount of the suit — think of it, dear friends! – we presented 16 billion U.S. dollars to Russia's Gazprom. That's the 16 billion we overpaid to Russia's Gazprom, and we could send them to pensions, benefits and subsidies. Fatherland, can you tell me how to get $16 billion out of Gazprom?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u17	Please, the next one is Igor Lucenko passing on to Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u18	Volodymyr Borisovich, I wanted to finish the gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u19	Please, just a minute, it's Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u20	I wanted to finish the gas. So the question is from a professional point of view by the Self-Help faction and other factions. After the economic issue turned this into a purely political one, from this rostrum I personally stated that the large four audit companies should carry out a full examination of all the tariffs set by the National Commission for Energy and Utilities. Once again, it's an independent body, but as the prime minister, I'm going to hide and say, you know, it's not me setting tariffs, it's independent organs, and this independent body has nothing to do with the Cabinet of Ministers -- at least not pretty. Because all authorities are responsible for everything that is going on in the country. And when I say that all power is: The President of the country, the Prime Minister, the government and all the state bodies that are appointed regardless of who they are appointed. So, on tariffs, we're going to complete the audit, the formation, tariff pricing, whether they're right or wrong -- the four largest companies in the world at the end of next week. I suggest you do. and I ask the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after we have prepared an independent report of the world's auditors on this matter, Sir Vladimir Borisovich. Individually invite you here to Parliament: the government, the National Energy Regulatory Commission, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, if audiences agree, let's invite audiences here, give a report to every Ukrainian national deputy and take down any political questions with economic answers to how tariffs were created. That's the first one. Second, the National Commission on Energy and Utilities Act. Once again, I emphasize that this must be an independent body. The Cabinet of Ministers has passed an appropriate bill, and I know that there are proposals and comments to this bill in part of the Ukrainian National Deputies. That's why I'm asking the national deputies for Tuesday's Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vashchevsky, Minister of Energy of Demchisin, Head of NCRECRCR, Two Committees and Experts, please meet in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're going to go through all the technical issues of this law so that next week we can introduce this bill and vote on it. And what's that going to do? This will enable us, first of all, to completely remove any political pressure from the National Energy Regulatory Commission, second of all, this will allow us to set tariffs as transparently and honestly as they have already been set, on gas, on electricity, and on any utility that is now being set up by the National Commission. Therefore, next week there is a proposal to hear a report on the setting of tariffs and the audit of these tariffs, and after a plenary week, to accept appropriate changes to legislation. If there are any other questions, your honorary colleagues, by the gas, by what we do, I am ready to answer further.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. I'll keep the group informed. Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u22	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to report that a working group of the Supreme Council has worked very well, as commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council to study the validity of tariffs. A single working group representing all factions concluded that tariffs were excessive, unfair, unfounded, and needed immediate correction, including a large component of corruption. Great! It's because "Paternity" raises these questions that today, in "Paternal Fatherhood," are being subjected to political blows to discredit the Fatherland, to humiliate and accuse all the sins that "Paternity" doesn't have. That's why I want to say that we appreciate the unity of the coalition, and we're not going to answer any charges. And we will support all good government initiatives. At the same time, I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u24	I want to state that on the basis of a contract signed in 2009 for the next quarter, the price of Russian gas will be $190. And believe me, it's going to go down radically by the end of the year. At the same time, I am very happy that there is a reason in Ukraine to go to the Stockholm Court and give good to the teeth of the Russian Federation and condemn anything that can be condemned on the basis of a contract. I believe in victory in the Stockholm Court, and Ukraine will have additional money. The tariffs will be reduced. If they're not reduced, we'll raise the unions and force them to remove the corruption component. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u25	Please, Sergey Rybalko. Oleg Lazko, Radical. Huh? Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Igor Lucenko passed it on to Timoshenko, as far as I could tell. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. After this discussion between the Prime Minister and the former Prime Minister, it is certainly difficult for anyone else to ask questions. Except for the radicals. So this is about the gas contract. Maybe today the price of a gas contract and $190 per thousand cubes. But a few years ago, we paid $500 a thousand dollars for a gas contract and overpaid billions under that gas contract. I would like to express my sincere thanks to Julia Volodymiriy Timoshenko, who has always stood guard over Ukraine’s interests. I would now like to ask Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, to take Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, to go to his friend Putin, and to break the gas contract without Stockholm arbitration, because in Stockholm arbitration, we will be tried for 10 years and the gas contract will continue to work. Arsenius, July – by hand, together – to Moscow and break the gas contract. And return $30 billion overpaid by Ukraine to the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u27	Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u28	Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich, honourable parliamentary coalition! You have, as always, the honorable Oleg Valeriyovich, the brilliant proposition. The only thing I can tell you for sure is that Putin is far from my best friend. Is that why you can't do it without me? I'll meet him at the Stockholm Arbitration Court. A number of questions were raised and the previous high - ranking Ulysses Volodymyrical were raised. And I would really like to stress the need for the unity of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Coalition. This is very important because we have 300 deputies, a constitutional European coalition. And this coalition has to stick to the pile. I highly appreciate the support of the Fatherland faction. I feel it very often in different forms. And so thank you very much, Reverend Julia Volodymyrna, for your support and for the faction of Fatherland. And I hope that we can keep it together so that no one will ever divide us under any circumstances. That's why I keep asking for advice and support, Your Honorable Julia Volodymyrovna, help me, please, not me. Please help the country! As for your question about the Federation of Trades and trades in general, I would like to refer to both the Ukrainian trade unions and the employers' federation from this high rostrum. So the employers' federation has now become, not the employers' federation, but the employers' federation. You know, unfortunately, one of the main bodies that should protect both the rights of the person who works and the rights of the person who gives the job today is privatized by the oligarch of the name Janukovič by Mr. Firtas and the head of the administration of Viktor Janukovič by Mr. Ljovczkini, who is in this room, that is, they have become private organizations. I'm going to the Employers' Federation, so-called, so that they can ask their shareholders if there's even an element of conscience? Their shareholders closed down two of the largest chemical plants, "Rinneazot" and "Cercasiot". Thousands of people were deprived of their jobs. These factories are now closed for the simple reason that this organized criminal group owes the state 6 billion dollars, no one is going to give them away. But we're going to court, all the lawsuits are over, if the Firmash and Ljocken companies don't count for the NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, these companies will go state property and the state will give jobs both in Reveny and in Chercas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u29	Please, the line is Julia Volodymyr and then Lucenko Igor. Please, just a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u30	Dear friends! I think today's "Paternity" party feels that the growing support in the society of politics that we're conducting is leading to very strange statements, including from the coalition. But I want to address the Ukrainians right now. No claims will stop us from establishing justice that you do not feel today. The tariffs, the indexation of pensions and wages, total corruption in all state monopolies, it will be overcome and we will stand on it. And to all those who have just spoken against Fatherland, I want to say that no statement will work, we will be in favour of the coalition's unity until the last. And no claims, no accusations will make us stand in opposition to our family.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u31	Please finish Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u32	to other coalition factions. And I want to remind you that when the contract was signed in 2009, the price of gas was $232. In the fourth quarter, there'll be $150 less than the European Union gives today's reverse. This contract can't be cancelled, even if you want to bite the Fatherland. But Janukovic, unfortunately, used this contract to launder money. There was never a price of 500. But what they had to do to get kicked out of Ukraine illegally and not by contract was to be returned. I am for the Stockholm Court, for returning illegally stolen money to Ukraine, for the unity of the coalition, for the victory of democracy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u33	Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u34	Dear friends, I just wanted to make it clear that this is an hour of questions to the current government, not to the past. That's the first one. And the second. I still wanted to tell you. My dear Julia Volodymyrna, I understand. If you said the price would be 150, it would be in the fourth quarter, I got it right. And if it's not 150, I'll go to you to compensate for the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u35	Thank you. The replica. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u36	Arsenius Petrovich, once again, I want to confirm that we support you, appreciate you, love you. And our own democratic government will work effectively, but please, honestly, please, make sure that the oligarchy is still separate from our government. Because in the 14th year, 22 billion dollars were returned to nine VAT clans and virtually nothing was returned to all those representing small and medium-sized businesses. Fight the clans, not your coalition thinkers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u38	My dear beloved Julia Volodymyrna, break!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u39	Julia Volodymyrna. You must finish, my dear Arsenius Petrovich. Julia Volodymyrna, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u40	Our precious Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u41	Dear Arsenija Petrovich and dear Julia Volodymyrna! On behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to express my great gratitude to you for your tolerant attitude towards one another. I think we can do this together. Together, you will be able to jointly make the price of gas for Ukraine 150 dollars per thousand cubes. Thank you. Colleagues, no-no-no, one minute. I propose, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the coalition, there is nothing more valuable than the unity of the MPs. But there is nothing more important than their work, not their verbal indignation. Let us unite to correct mistakes that exist. And we will not turn Parliament into a battlefield between our own. Because it usually ends where Julia and I met Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think you can give the floor to Oleg Berezuku on this positive note. Sobolev? Colleagues, please, Sobolev. Well, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u44	Please pass it on to Sobolje Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, it is a great request to join the so - called east pass problem. Because of the uncoordinated database, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Borders, a system has been put in place that has actually created a great new kind of corruption that undermines confidence in the Ukrainian state and decomposes our power of power. It takes the political will of the government to organize this system of laissez-passes as a single electronic control system and to reverse this new type of corruption that has been caused by war.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Arsenius Petrovich. Then Irina Heratschenko and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u47	The exercise of control in these areas is not the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the exclusive competence of the Ukrainian Security Service, which, according to the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorist Act, governs an anti-terrorist operation. But we held two meetings on this issue. We're going to introduce a bill to Parliament, and I don't want to go into detail right now, which provides for an order on the so-called collision line. And it's going to be hard on the one hand, on the other hand, completely transparent collision control. The next week, there will be an appropriate bill. So we made two decisions. The first line of collision. The second in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. When there are draft decisions, I will inform Parliament what is the position of the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, last question, Irina Heratschenko, question "OHMATDIT," question "OHMATDIT."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u49	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, revered Arsenia Petrovich! You know, I have good news. That the women of Parliament demonstrate greater unity than in the coalition today. And we are united, all the deputies, around the support of OHMATDIT. And there's the next problem. The government has allocated 500 million dollars to the OHMATDIT construction. But I planned it on December of the month when there was no work. So we very much ask you to examine this question. So that the financing of OHMATDIT would be reviewed and the summer would begin. And so you can review the tender procedures so that we can save the children. This will help to save 30,000 severely ill Ukrainian children each year! We ask you very much to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u50	Thank you. For now, the Minister of Health, yes, does? But another faction that didn't ask the question is Oboblok, Dudenkov and all, and put it at risk, that's all. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u51	I give you my word from Shurma's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u53	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. There are many questions to the government, but I'm changing the subject. Vladimir Borisovich, when will you stop the mess in the Supreme Council? Instead of asking questions, you are here to arrange for yourself. Arseny Petrovich! You were at the College of the Ministry of Health, the head of the committee told you what corruption was like. What measures will you take to correct or confirm this corruption? This is the first time. As for trampling under the Rules, Vladimir Borisovich, I can tell you that yesterday was a gross violation of the Peacekeepers' Permit Act, 2953. 89 were voted in favour of the reduced procedure and the vote took place illegally. Here people from other nations will come to a law that is passed beyond the limits. I've asked you not to sign, I've made an official statement, and I'm telling you, President, don't sign, if the Chief of the Supreme Council signs this bill, vote in the House by law. And what's happening today is just a smile.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, 20 seconds, finish. 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u55	20 seconds, please. If you want to create such ridicules, meetings, please have the coalition’s advice, write down the prime minister and find out who they have there and who is in love with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u56	Yeah, look. It was one question to the speaker. Do you know when the mess will end in the hall? When you're not making a mess in the hall. This is the first position. Second position. In accordance with the Rules, we will consider your request for adoption of the law that you have just mentioned. I urge everyone to stop the mess in the hall anyway, because it's very important for Parliament to show on the other side. Please, Kiss, "Rebirth." All right, Anton Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Rebirth Group, People's Deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich. On behalf of the members of our group, who represent Odessa, I ask you with conviction as a person who knows the specifics of the Odessa region and the south of the Odessa region. This is a voluntary association of communities, please set up a team of specialists, headed by relevant leaders, who can carry out awareness-raising on the methodology adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. We, the People's Deputies, are five people from the Revival Group, ready to participate and bring the necessary information to our voters. I look forward to your support and understanding, waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Yes, please, we are done with the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u59	The Honourable Deputies! There were three questions, and I'm going to let myself answer them, and the first question was, what was the question of OHMATDIT? In fact, we had 500 million formed to pay them in fourth quarter. Oleg Valeriyovich turned to Irina Gerashchenko, so we're moving these costs to S and Fourth Quarters. So we're accelerating the cost of OHMATDIT and we're now going to have an immediate funding order approved, and we're going to start funding the construction of OHMATDIT as soon as next month. The second was a question from political opponents about what is happening in the health system? So we held a college of the Ministry of Health, and there was a vision of the entire reform of the health system, and today the minister of profile responded. And on your particular question about the Ministry's inaction charges? I've been assigned a service investigation. After the head of the committee was personally present at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a service investigation into the activities of the Ministry of Health was initiated. With the results of this service investigation, I will be sure to get to know the members of Parliament and the members of the relevant committee of profile. The third is about unifying the territorial communities? Also, thank you for that question. And what I would very much like us to bring from the top to the bottom. The law is called “a voluntary union. ” It's not about coercion, it's not about "under the stick," it's about voluntary community reunification. That is why, along with the President of Ukraine, we decided to hold an appropriate meeting of local communities and territories next week to clarify clearly how this voluntary association of citizens should take place. It was scheduled for the beginning of the next week, but since I am flying to the United States for the purpose of preparing an investment conference and for the purpose of meeting with the International Monetary Fund and all other financial institutions, including the United States Ministry of Finance and the holding of all negotiations on additional financial resources for the country, we will hold this meeting on the following Friday. And I'm going to talk to the President of the country to invite the people's deputies of Ukraine to make this our joint administrative reform. A voluntary reform that foresees, indeed, the concentration of additional resources in the respective territorial communities, the granting of additional powers, and not as is the case, has already been informed me, in certain areas where the head of the administration of one very rich village joins another very rich village to control whether land or control a resource position in the respective territories. Thus, a voluntary union with the goal of establishing strong territorial communities. And we'll talk about it next week. That's why I'm here. Vladimir Borisovich, you can finish, can't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Let's thank the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u61	Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, dear friends, I have a very big request to the members of Parliament. We talked, it's an interesting discussion. But we have three basic laws that need to be adopted today: this is the Act on Amendments to the Law on the Moratorium. We discussed yesterday at the Council of Coalitions that he would be accepted in the first and second readings. And these are two laws already in the second reading on the institutional independence of the National Bank. These are the so - called previous conditions for the second tranche that the International Monetary Fund can provide to Ukraine to be granted. I'm asking you, these are laws not about reducing pensions, they're not about increasing tariffs, they're reforms that the country needs. You promised me yesterday when I promised you something -- I'll do it when you promise -- you do it too. So I very much ask that our joint arrangement be fulfilled today. Mr. Head, the honourable members of the coalition, as always, have been extremely pleased to see you all, if you're going to call if you have any questions, come in. If you don't come in, I'll come see you next Friday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I have a few words to say. First of all, please invite the deputies into the hall, we will now vote, the decisions we have to adopt today, including the inclusion of important decisions in the agenda. I would like to inform you that, as stated in the order of discussion that the commission has completed its work on tariffs, that means that the report submitted to the government and parliamentarians will be posted on the committee's website and that, once the audit firm concludes, we will be able to present it here together in the Supreme Council. So this report is going to be presented by our colleague, Alona Babak, who was very conscientiously working on the previous report that was given. The second position is that it's about uniting the territorial communities, it hurts me, that's what I want to say. Friends, this is a voluntary union, according to Arsenija Petrovich, if anyone is moving in places, there are also national MPs who should not allow it. But in order for the community, the village to transfer education to management, health care, housing, culture, infrastructure, leisure and everything else, it is necessary to do so when the community can be sufficient to perform these functions. Well, how can a community of thousands of people do these functions? Not a full school, not a garden, and so on. Of course, it is necessary that this union voluntarily makes each participant strong, not weak. This is the essence of this law. And the fact that someone's allowed to bend in places, that's how we're going to get them in place. They're bending in places, and we're gonna push them in! That's how all the countries of Europe, all the countries of the world, went in this reform. And we have to go, but only voluntarily, understanding people, understanding their needs. So I'd like to pay attention to that. Come on, colleagues. We have a professional holiday tomorrow — people who allow us to be. does not allow us to be balanced, but is always kept in tune. These are our journalists present in this room today. Dear fellow journalists, we sincerely welcome you to a professional holiday! Good, success, health, well - being, inspiration! And I would very much like you to keep an eye on the events in the Supreme Council. Good luck. And now, dear fellows, I urge everyone to get to work. Today we will consider the laws: 1630, 1831. But there are voices. And the report will also be by Borislav Bereza by the group he worked on, and so on. And we'll ask questions. We'll do enough work today. Look, dear fellows. I'm suggesting that we don't ask questions right now, and the questions are moving a little bit, and they're continuing our work. This is fundamentally important so that we can make a number of decisions. But we're all just doing it before. It's going to be "Rizzne" at 1:00 p.m., which means we have to work very closely for an hour and a half to read and adopt the necessary decisions in Parliament. That's why I'm asking you, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote now! Please invite all the national deputies to the hall, please. National deputies, please take your seats. There is now a proposal not to read the questions, but to go over the issues of the order of the day. See, there are important laws. Listen to the important laws and I would like to inform you. 2011a. It's a law on the supply of fuel-oil materials to the Ministry of Defense for the needs of the army. 2981, 82, 83, 84 are questions related to the services that we need to return to the local community. It's a crucial decision. Enhance the quality of provision of services locally. This includes an anticorruption measure that will allow us in this realm to reduce abuse and corruption. Next, dear colleagues. Decision-making from previously discussed issues, including honourable colleagues, several parliamentary decrees, but including the laws of Ukraine. See the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Social Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. This is about financial security for the fallen soldiers of ours. We need to support this bill. 1630, as we welcomed our fellow journalists, the Law on Improving the Protection of Professional Activity of Journalists. An extremely important law on additional security assurances and the protection of the professional activities of journalists. Next. The draft Law on Transparency of Media Property. It's very important. And now we have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, we can already look at it. Colleagues, a series of laws that relate to the IMF and the issues of interaction with other financial institutions in the world. This all needs our decisions. I don't want us to make these decisions for the next week because there might be a shortage of votes in the room right now. So I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to take their seats now. I'm going to put it to a vote right now, and that's going to be a signal to move the requests up to 13 hours after reviewing the laws of Ukraine and the rulings of Parliament. Please, colleagues, take your seats, please. Dear colleagues! Please vote on the transfer of requests for closure, the announcement of requests, and we will now consider extremely important laws. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Minister Rosenko! Minister Rosenko! Paul! Let the national deputies go, please. We're voting on the transfer of queries to more. First. Well, this proposal can be voted on at least five times, you don't need a signal here. Please, colleagues. Friends, please transfer, we are considering laws. Please vote. Keep it up, folks. Vote. I've told you how important laws are. [[11:38:34]] For 197 None. So let's do that, 30 minutes then. We take 30 minutes to ask questions and gather MPs. All colleagues, factions, please invite the deputies to the hall at 12:10 p.m. at 12:10 p.m. Oxana Ivanovna, read the questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u63	Dear National Deputies! As you remember, we have unvoted requests to the President. I propose that when the people's deputies return to the hall, we return to the questions that will be addressed to the President. That's how the questions came in. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Ukrainian minister of health regarding the provision of maternity care equipment. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for Land Delimitation to the ATO New Guinean Village Council of the Žitomir District of the Žitomir Region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the replacement of windows at the metal-plastic in the Romanov High School of the Žitomir Region. Maxim Chicken to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on granting status as a member of the fighting in the ATO holding zone Valery Socnyu. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the deliberate obstacle to the exercise of justice by the law enforcement and judicial authorities of Poltava. Igora Shurma to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the appropriateness of the position of Director-General of the National Cultural Centre in Moscow. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to stop the use of gas in the market of supplies for the population. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal construction of the Premega Dendropark in Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Besbach, Kolesnikova, Taruta) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Metalsbrukht. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of reviewing state policy in the area of milk and milk products. Alexander Gorbunov and Dmitry Stryzuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for preventing the destruction of the crash building of the vocational and technical school No.16, located in the town of Mala viska Kirovograd district. Alexia Bilago to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal and illegal actions of the Cerka District Attorney's Office in organizing the raiding of the Curriculum and Health Institute of the Čerka Sanatorium and the Children's Health Centre of Santanak. Groups of National Deputies (Devil, Lozov and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the distribution of humanitarian aid among the hospitals of the Donetsk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Devil, Lozov and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the distribution of humanitarian aid to the hospitals of the Donetsk Region. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the transfer of the transit section of the R-13 road, which is compatible with the roads of general use of the City of Montenegro to state property. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Administration of Railways of Ukraine, State Territorial and Sectoral Union of South-West Railways, the Fastest City Council on Dissatisfaction with the results of the review of the parliamentary request of February 12, 2015 No11/10-330 on the need for verification of violations of construction standards in the replacement of passenger platforms at the South West Railway Passenger Station. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Lviv City Head on the use of measures to complete the construction of a preschool facility on the street of Novośsenska, 69 in the city of Lviv. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the innovative activities of psychological and pedagogical consultations. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Žitomir district government administration for the closure of general education schools in the villages of Gruljivets and Jalinjka of the Red Army region of the Žitomir region. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to fund expenditure to pay off the debt of the National Institute of Gastroenterology of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of delay in investigating the criminal case concerning the newspaper VESTI and its leadership. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the construction of water-generating buildings on the Wilshanka River in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the offices of Krašta in the rural area of Lebedinsky, Ohtyrski, Trostyanecki, Velikopisarovsky and other areas of the Suma region. Sergio Laryna to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on issues in the return of deposits by the Bank of Finance and Credit. Sergey Larina to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on unlawful delay and misinformation in the provision of arbitrary documents by the employees of the Chief Interregional Administration of Operational Security of the Anti-Terrorist Operation of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Dmitry Lubinz and Jegor Firsov to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Ministry of Defence concerning the Kombriga 93 brigade of Colonel Oleg Mikaz and his appointment as head of 169 teaching centres located in the village of Right Kozelecki district of Chernigiv. Dmitry Lubintz to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the adoption of administrative decisions by the Centre for Coordination of the Anti-Terrorism Centre at the ATO SBU in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk Region, namely, the transport of seeds to the sunflower through the occupied areas of the Donetsk Region (the entry-exit checkpoint “Bugas” (Volnovaha)). Sergey Labazuka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for Health Care in order to provide health care for people who suffer from phenylketonuria. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prevention of children's health and rest in the networks of appropriate children's institutions in the summer of 2015. Irina Freez to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the provision of medical units in the ATO zone with raw materials against snake venom. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need to review the standards of toxic elements in drinking water. Stepan Kubeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to improve the procedure for receiving information from Ukrainian citizens issued by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of Kharkiv District Government Administration, Head of Kharkiv District Council for the Transfer of Facilities, which is part of the Kharkiv Regional Training Centre for the preparation, preparation and upgrading of agro-industrial personnel, and is not used for the purpose of the purpose of the local community of the township of the township of Peasots of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district with the aim of creating an inter-school educational and manufacturing combination of schools and pre-school teachers of the Harkiv district of Kharkiv. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District Government Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council for the allocation of two million dollars to ensure the repair of the road to the local value of Dergachi-Kozach Lopan, which is very important to the inhabitants of the 11 populated areas of the Dergachev region of Kharkiv. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Dnipropetrovska District Public Administration on possible violations of legislation in the provision of housing and utility services to residents of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Sergia Kiwalova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use within the jurisdiction of the measures to eliminate violations of land, architecture, urban and environmental legislation in the construction of a parking area in the area of the 10th Great Fountain Station in the city of Odessa. Vitalia Gudzenka to the National Agricultural Inspectorate in Kyiv district for possible land violations in the village of Fursa Bilocerkow district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the capital repair of roads in Uzin Kyiv district. Victoria Voytzicka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities, the deputy head of the State Inspectorate for Consumer Protection in the field of consumer rights, which uses electricity to heat the water. John Rybak, head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, head of the Chernobyl District State Administration on the need to repair the O-2602 district road. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District State Administration to speed up the financing of the District Programme of Prevention, Diagnostics and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis in 2015 - 2016 for the inhabitants of the region of Putil. Alexia Lknsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the urgent use of procuratorial response measures to stop the falsification of criminal cases against the resident of Kirovograd, well-known lawyer John Pogasii, the cessation of unauthorized construction in the forest park area of Kyrovgrad and the involvement of officials involved in these offences in Ukraine's legislation of responsibility. Alexia Lensky to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, for the urgent hearing of information on the situation that took place on the line of Audiowak - Piski - Marijnka, where pro-Russian militants are attacking ATO forces in an effort to push Ukrainian military forces from the borders of the defence and to decide on immediate response measures. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration, on the support of the comprehensive programme of the Kyiv-Svetoshin City Council of Kiev on the thermomodernization of the production, transport and rational use of thermal energy. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the improper conduct of criminal investigation in criminal proceedings No. 12013180120000668 of 27 December 2013 as the investigating branch of the Office of the Ministry of Interior in Poltavska. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the standard lease agreement into line with the legislative acts. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the head of the Lviv District Administration, head of the Borislav City Council of the Lviv Region for information on citizens' appeals concerning the work of the Borislav City Council of the Lviv Region Education Department. Sergio Melnika to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the order of implementation of the pilot project on State price regulation of insulin preparations. Jury Bublika to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on the urgent review of Bill No. 1718 of February 13, 2015 on the abolition of the mandatory use of accountancy registers by small business entities and the warning of unforeseeable consequences. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, on the incompatibilities of and failure to perform their functions, which led to the refusal of a pension after the loss of a foster caregiver to members of the family of military personnel, Alexander Mochalov, who died during an antiterrorist operation. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of the teaching and research farm to the National Agro-ecological University. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister, for providing information on the level of security of military medical facilities by medical means and medical devices. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay off the debt owed to the Blackwater Channel utility. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on wage index for employees of the Lower Central Galician Hospital and on the repayment of the medical subsidy deficit. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of the Methodology of the Forming of Powerful Territorial Communities, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 8 April 2015 No.214, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the capital repair of the M-15 Odessa-Rani International Road. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society Kyivgaz, on providing information on the installation of gas supply meters in Kiev’s residential buildings. Andrija Illenka, head of Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as head of the right-wing district in Kiev State Administration, CEO of Kyivatodor Municipal Corporation for the repair of asphalt cover on Kosmonaut Volkova Street in the right-wing district of Kiev. Roman Semenha and Jaroslav Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the right of permanent use of land established under the Lipkovatov Agrarian College and for the lifting of illegal orders from the Head of State in the Kharkiv Region. Roman Semenicha and Jaroslav Markevich to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the conduct of supervisory actions regarding the Public Shareholders Association "The Commercial Bank "Financial Initiative", the Public Shareholder Society "Bank "Finances and Credit". Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District Public Administration, prosecutor of the Lviv Region, Lviv City Head, on the reasons for the change in the terms of public debt travel in the city of Lviv and Lviv. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the negative situation in the banks of Ukraine with the issuance of currency deposits after the end of the term specified in the contract. Ruslan Demchak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of unlawful acts by officials who carried out unlawful criminal persecution of political prisoners. Ruslan Demchak to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the activities of questionable Internet resources in Ukraine. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate and systematic measures to establish thermal energy calculation (calculators) for the current year. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, on the issue of reorienting the traffic and on the urgent execution of capital repairs of the pipeline on the road of state importance within the village of Brodec of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of the child’s health and rest organization in 2015. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficiently low quality of answers to parliamentary requests submitted by the Ministry of Education and Science, Social Policy, Justice and Health of Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on providing information on the implementation of the objectives of the Demographic Development Strategy by 2015 and on the prospect of developing a new one. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to resolve the issue of financing the medical facilities of Ukraznice in connection with the transfer of these objects to the financing of local budgets. Oleg Petrenk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to simplify the payment procedure for the injured and the families of the deceased members of the Ukrainian National Guard, officials of the authorities, and departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of employment by persons who voluntarily enter the military service on a contract during a special period. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of corruption in public procurement in the medical field. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the review of the address of the Enlightenment of the Kremenac District Union of Ternopil District of the Ternopil Education Society, named Taras Shevchenk. Victor Krivenk to the temporary duty of head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine regarding the legality of expenses by the State Enterprise "Ukrainian Institute of Industrial Property". Olesia Long to Minister of Social Policy for the Recalculation of Pensions to Pensioners of the City of Svetłovodsk Kirovograd. Olesia Long to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the need to take measures to pay deposits to investors of the Public Shareholders' Bank Finance and Credit. Tetjani Donec to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the number of visas received by Ukrainian citizens for foreign employment. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the granting of martial law and certification to military personnel. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine to complete the work on sites to protect the population from flooding by the waters of the Dniester River in the area of the Sambir district of Lviv. Olga Bogolitz to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the delay in the administration of the Ministry of the procedure for the appointment of vacant management positions and inactions with regard to the formation and approval of the new human resources structure of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Olga Bogolec to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine with regard to monitoring humanitarian aid, the lack of action aimed at creating a single system, and the responsible body for humanitarian aid. Oleg Osuhovski to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the removal of violations of the rights of coowners of the apartment building to share property. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to ensure that citizens have the right to access public information. Paul Rizanenka is head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the verification of the fact of the purchase – the sale and construction of ownership of the inn on the Independence Boulevard, the 3-B building in the city of Brovary, which consists of a complete PAT property complex, "Brovar Plastics Factory". Taras Batenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine on the issue of labour on the gross violation of labour law by the temporary acting Director General of Pat "Ukratransnafta" Sidorak Roman Mironović. Taras Batenka to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor, for the purpose of directing a time-limit to familiarize himself with the deaths of 49 soldiers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who were on board an Il-76MD military aircraft. Jurya Derevjanka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, for the verification of illegal coal exports from the territory of the Counterterrorism Operation. Gregory Timesa, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration’s Novoseltsky Region’s Regional Administration for the use of measures to include selected programmes and regional development projects that can be implemented in 2016, individual subjects of the education sector of the Novoseltsky region of the Chernivecki region. Groups of National Deputies (Tarasuka, Krulka, Yemen) to the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on constitutional application from 10 July 2014 on the recognition of the unconstitutional Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Language Policy from 3 July 2012. Alexander Dombrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Viennese District State Administration, acting as Vynick City Head for the issuance of a death certificate under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection to the families of the Heroes of Heavenly Sotney, who were tragically killed during the Revolution of Dignity, in that regard, the birthplace of the town of Winnice of Heroy of Ukraine, Šimk Maxim Mikolajovich, who died from a sniper's bullet on 20 February 2014 in Kiev on the streets of the Institute. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that urgent measures are taken to protect the population of Ukraine with regard to the review by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the conditions for obtaining credit from the International Monetary Fund. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of the construction of the unfinished construction site on Mayakovska Street, 111-A in the town of Korosten of the Žitomir Region and for housing of persons displaced from the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and areas of the conduct of the ATO. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the registration of a fire vehicle transferred to Ukraine as humanitarian aid by the Norwegian Mission "Faith-Nadija-Lovov", without paying the congregation for the first registration. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funding for the completion of the construction of the teaching corps of the National University of Chernobyl named Yuri Fedeković. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying Ukraine's State Fiscal Service regarding the construction and implementation of border crossing points with Romania. Alexander Sugonjako to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to respond to gross violations of legislation by officials of T.O.T. "LeStar" and T.O.V. "U.S." Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on planned projects and programmes with energy efficiency and energy modernisation of state-owned enterprises for 2015-2016. Jaroslava Markevich to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the reason for the refusal of the Ukrainian Defence Ministry to accept free assistance from the Hungarian Government in the treatment of heavily injured ATO participants. Alexander Suprunenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the requirements of law by officials of the State Executive Service and on the application of measures to prevent violations of the rights of residents of the building on the street of Novodarnička in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Igora Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the signs of abuse of office and corruption in action. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, we can continue meetings for 15 minutes without a recess and without a vote for the extension of the sitting. I'll finish the question of "Ask," then there'll be a break. . State executive services and measures to prevent violations of the rights of residents of the house on the street of Novodarnitsky in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Igora Artushenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the signs of abuse of office and corruption in the actions of officials of the prosecutor's office, internal affairs and the court. Igora Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the raiding of the strategic defence firm T.O. "Prodmash" and the property of other economic entities. Jaroslav Moscalenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the enforcement of the decision of the Borodian District Court of Kiev to double the amount of the charge, the material damage and the moral damage. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the gas pipeline and the repair of roads in the village of Mikolayevka in the district of Žitomirsk. Vladimir Parasuka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of low-quality uniforms and food for military personnel mobilized into the ATO zone. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for the verification of the legality of the operation "Rubiž" by the Chief Operations Authority of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service. Irina Herashchenko to the High Council of Justice, the head of the Temporary Special Commission for the Examination of Judges of the General Courts of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the provision of information on the involvement of representatives of the judicial branch. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of representatives of the judiciary and co-workers of the prosecution system. Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the conduct of the services of the prosecutor’s office. Edward Matthewchuk to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, regarding the need for an objective review of the request of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Galina Sluzarczuk to renew her constitutional right to recalculate her pension. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the collective appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live in houses 50-58 on the street of King's Landing and their surrounding houses to verify compliance with the law at the site: Odessa, King's Street, 56 A, and to prevent the destruction of the green zone. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of social protection bodies in the Vinnitsky region with forms for the processing and certification of disabled children and children with disabilities. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, heads of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, Minister of Infrastructure to verify compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian law in the conduct of the real estate lease competition. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the Government of Arsenija Yatzenuk's parliamentary requests for the protection of the social rights and guarantees of Ukrainian citizens. Sergija Rudika to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission on Financial Services Markets, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal (sub-) foreign exchange exchanges in Kiev. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the purchase of 47 apartments in Apartment No.11 on Komsomolska Street in Boguslav Kyivsk district to provide accommodation for the participants of the Anti-Terrorism Operation and their families. Alexander Zholobeckov to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the Preservation Department in the village of Pribyzki Jętnev district of Mikolaiiv region. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnick district council, the head of the Hmelnick district public administration on the need to continue the construction of the Zaluzhska public education school. Igor Alekseyeva, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine from an emergency situation, temporarily fulfilling the responsibility of the head of the State Statistics Service of Ukraine to provide information on the number of legal persons who have changed their location from a temporarily occupied territory to another territory of Ukraine, and the amount of compensation for the added tax from the State budget of Ukraine. Igor Pober to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of inactivity, corruption, abuse of office and gross violation of effective legislation by the procurator of the Žmerinsky district of Semenyuk, the director of the Chernitinski agrarian college of WNAU Maluta, and the head of the Cherinite village council of Mendalski. Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on numerous offences, including those related to the financing of terrorism committed by the Director of the Separate Unit of the National Atomic Energy Company, Energoat, Vasilkov Valeriy Aleksandrovič. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for persons serving in the area of conducting the Anti-Terrorism Operation in a uniform of a formed unit of the special task force "Berkut". Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-use of measures by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the introduction of a project Study on the possibility of synchronous integration of Ukrainian and Moldovan energy systems with the continental European energy system into the State Cross-border Cooperation Development Programme 2011-2015. Vladimir Melnicken to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the capital and current repairs of the road to Kamyanec Podolski. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnick district government administration, the head of the Krasilov district government administration of the Hmelnicka district on the need for an increase in the terms of administrative and territorial reform and for the establishment of the consensual territorial community of the Krasilov district of Hmelnicka. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption and abuse of office by the President of the Ukrainian State Building Corporation, Maxim Mikitas, and the officials of KZBK "Cantry House", who do not carry out court decisions, do not perform contracts and do no damage to Ukrainian citizens, and commit appropriate crimes under the previous contract with the officials of the Committee of the Mountain Council of the Kyiv Region, the officials of the Registration Service of the Ministry of Justice of the Kyiv Region, the officials of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine in the Kyiv region. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the use of facts-based measures in journalistic investigations, on the grounds of the inaction of the Rector of KNEU, Pavelenko Anatolia Fedorovich, on alleged corruption, gross violations of labour law and professional ethics, and on the responsibility of the relevant university officials. Sergia Soboljeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the non-admission of further office as Head of the Directorate for Combating Economic Crime of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye region of Sich Mikola Alexandrovich, who discredited himself by working in an appropriate position during the Janukovic regime. The examination of questions, in addition to those addressed to the President of Ukraine, has been completed. I'm calling a half hour break up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I very much ask all the deputies to enter the hall to continue their work. Bills of great importance that do not allow for the postponement of decisions that need to be made. The Prime Minister has asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss and support them, and it is very important for us to have a quorum in the room, including the Journalist Protection Act and their journalistic activities. I very much ask fellow members of the National Deputies to enter the Hall, I very much ask the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all of us, and also the heads of factions to inform the deputies that they will arrive in the Hall to continue their work. Please come into the hall and call all the deputies. Dear colleagues, in one or two minutes we will begin our work. I'm asking you to come into the hall, leave the buffets and the watches and go back to work. Olya Cervakov, you should be the first ones here to demand the presence of deputies in the hall. I'm asking you to come to the hall and start our work. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to make a signal vote. I'm asking you to come to the workplace. Take our seats so that we can make a signal vote and determine whether we are able to hold discussions and conduct a session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. While you're taking your seats, I'd like to make some details under the transcript. To the question of what you and I were looking at, 2874, 2875, 2 June 2015. It was adopted on the basis and in general draft laws, registration number 2874, 2875, which provides for the normalization of relations in the area of repair of public roads, if you remember. During their discussion, a discussion arose, and we agreed to make certain specifics to the names of the laws passed. At the same time, when the texts of these laws were drafted for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, there were differences between the content and the name, between the content of the laws and the names we approved. Then, at the suggestion of profile committees in the titles of adopted laws, note that these are "legislative changes in co-financing the repair of roads of state importance." We then added "repair and maintenance," but we have to say that "co-financing the repair of roads of state importance." Appropriately, this clarification is organized with the committee, the authors of laws, and the legal administration. So it actually corresponds to the content and substance of the questions that we've been asking. Dear colleagues, we have, look, we have for inclusion in the agenda: 1, 2, 3, 4. Yeah, they're editorials, I read we're editing them. We have with you: one, two, three, four, five, six laws that need to be incorporated into the agenda of the session. So we can start work on the committees. 2011a, administrative services 2981, 2982, 2983, 2984 and 2311. The laws are prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I have a proposal that we now include them in the order of the day session. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Ready? Please take your seats, colleagues. Dear National Deputies! Take your seats, please. Please, colleagues, come on. about the inclusion of questions in the agenda. There are proposals for factions, coalitions to vote on the general list of laws that I have announced. Vote? Please, for the offer, please vote. Please support this proposal to be included in the agenda of the session. [[12:51:58]] For 199 Dear colleagues, we don't see any voting potential here. Let me do it again. Let me rephrase that question for the vote. Please take your seats, offer. Dear colleagues! Please, let's determine whether to include questions in the agenda of the session. [[12:53:04]] For 206 Dear friends, 206 votes. There are no votes, as I understand it, so we're going to be moving it to the next plenary week, and now we're going to start. Now, let's start with a different question. Oleg Lakota, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Today’s routine is extremely responsible. The laws that we are about to adopt today allow us to continue cooperating with international financial organizations to stabilize the rate of the fines in order to join the country of investors in order to solve the country's problems. That's why I have an offer. Because we have a coalition where we have 300 votes, we collect deputies, and we work. When our fighters on the front are protecting the country, they don't have weekends, they don't have a break! Because they know that as soon as they are relaxed, the enemy, like in Marinka, will be on the move. And that's why no one relaxes. The same should be done by Parliament. Especially when the issue of cooperation with international organizations is at stake. For saving the country's economy! So let us not break up; let us not take these questions off the table. Until we do, let's not go anywhere! We're gathering deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u67	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u68	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have two observations. First. The consideration of inclusion in the agenda is contrary to article 96 of the Rules, according to which the issue of the inclusion of a bill in the agenda is considered by the Supreme Council within 30 days of the adoption of the conclusion of the Main Committee, you are the Temporary Special Commission. I respect the position of the coalition. And as they pass the bill, it's probably necessary for them to vote. I can help them get together. We go out on a proposal, let's do business tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. And I don't recommend breaking the rules. It's a violation of the law, it's not a regulation, it's a law!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's all make a statement about the need for a vote. Let's re-evaluate the possibilities for cooperation from the point of view of adoption, positive decision-making, and continue to be defined. Please, colleagues, about the inclusion in the agenda at the suggestion of coalition factions and government issues that I have just announced. Integrating into the agenda of the session, not today’s session, but the sessions. Vote. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[12:56:34]] For 199 Thank you, Your Honor. In accordance with our order of the day, please report Borislav Bereza. 5 minutes - the minutes are set by the reporter. Please go to Borislav Bereza's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u70	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, guests of parliament, representatives of the media! Allow me to present to you the interim report on the work of the working group on information checks published by the former Head of the State Financial Inspectorate, Nicholas Gordijenko. I was really hoping you'd get your report. But Mr. Head hasn't signed this report yet, so you'll get it later. It's approved by the members of the task force. Like any collective work product, this is a coherent position that I can assure you that we did not go against our own consciences and national interests. I would like to highlight some of the results of our work. After examining the facts given by Mr. Gordonck, I have to admit that millions of abuse continues to be the norm for the functioning of the government apparatus. The system of government enterprises allows them to be converted into dining rooms for interested persons. Unfortunately, that was the case with Yanukovic, and that's what's left of it now. Let me give you a specific example. The amount of financial irregularities in only NAEC 'Energot' is 8.3 billion dollars. Of these, he bought 8 billion dollars. The loss is 74 million dollars. Under the stenogram of our working group’s reporting, there is only one name that is associated with all the structures that work with Energoatoma. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, don't your money burn out? Our group’s work allowed us to identify whole layers of problems that clearly characterize the state of government and law enforcement. The head of the Government of the Agrarian Fund, Alexander Kiruk, appointed to office on 17 October 2013 for the premiere of Mikli Azarov, who donated 2 billion dollars from the charter fund of the Brokbiznesbank Agrarian Fund 10 days before the last bankruptcy, was dismissed, please note that on 28 April 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had been relieved of its work since 4 February 2015. If such stars are not only persecuted under the law, but remain in their seats after the damage is done, the Prime Minister's discussion of the renewal of power, well, seems blasphemous. Another example. Tetjana Koptenko, a former accountant of the State Food Company, paid nearly 68 million dollars in tax debt and fines to close a criminal case of tax evasion. This proved sufficient for law - enforcement officials to consider the wrongdoing to be overcrowded. Neither the fact of the crime, nor the origin of the ordinary accountant's money -- just 68 million dollars! - no interest in the investigation. What? It's a government food company. The impunity of criminals is a direct signal to the Marauders in power to continue looting the state. The maximum threat they face, according to tradition in Ukraine, is dismissal and resignation. It seems that the fight against corruption does not come at the top of the nation’s leadership. If we can interpret the fact that the Yatsenuk government has maximized funding for the public financial inspection. In continuing with the topic of law enforcement, I would like to point out that the Attorney General's Office actually sabotaged the work of a working group created by a decision of the Supreme Council. So Victor Shockin and his subjects understand the call: "To live in a new way!".. They may not be interested in keeping the promise of the President of Ukraine. The systematic lack of representatives of the GSP at the working group made it impossible to control and assess the effectiveness of the judicial investigation by law enforcement authorities. This is despite the fact that on April 10, 2015, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Groisman, commissioned the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to report to the Supreme Council on the state of the theft of public facts and other facts of abuse in the public sector by May 7. As of today, no one in Parliament has heard the report. I'm not wrong, am I? Deputy Attorney General Guiser called us amateurs, and after the extension of our working group, the U.S.S.S.A. stopped cooperating with us at all. At the same time, it was as if the professional attorney general had not brought any resonative action or returned any copies to the state’s budget. So what is professionalism, my dear? Maybe in professional coverage of corrupts who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u71	One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u72	So the work of the working group went under the heading "Yes, we have a desire and we have no opportunity!".. That's it. was in our Supreme Council. To increase the usefulness of such investigations and to fill the real meaning of the parliamentary-presidential republic, I urge you, colleagues, next plenary week to adopt Bill 1098 on Temporary Commission Investigations and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council, which significantly expands the rights and possibilities of parliamentary investigation. It was signed by all the leaders of factions and coalitions. So we already have 300 votes to vote for, and you're supported by non-fractionals. In view of the above, we propose to create the first TSC on the basis of the working group and to continue to investigate these resonance cases with full legal authority. On my behalf, I would like to express my gratitude to all the members of the working group for the effort and time they have made. Thank you for your attention. Are you ready to answer your questions? If you don't have any questions, I'd appreciate it if this Parliament at the next meeting would really support the TSC bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u73	Thank you. It doesn't. Dear colleagues, we are now in line with the Rules of Procedure. Please record. And I'm handing over the lead, for the announcement, I'm handing over Andrew Volodymyrovich Paris, and then I'm Oxana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I have a brief announcement. On June 3, under the Virgin Mary, our Santa Claus boy died in the village of Berozka in the Krizozer district of Alexander Galuchin, 28th Brigade. This is a fighter who went through all of Midan in the fourth hundred self-defence. The father of the two children who had immediately gone to the front of the volunteer after Maidan, and there in the heavy fighting he did not retreat; he was to the end on the front and heroically killed. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Heroes don't die!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Vulnerable. Please sign up for the performance. I'd like to invite you to the words of the National MP, Alona Babak, Self Help. National Deputy Kishkar, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u76	In fact, I'd like to start by saying that my sense of status as a national MP is a general impression -- I don't want to be a deputy! Why? Because those genius ideas, the simple ones that are actually written by nature, not by human law, but by nature, are not introduced today by either the President or the Prime Minister. We're talking about overcoming corruption and we're not doing anything about it. We're talking about "reforms," and we don't see any meaning behind that word, we're talking about simple tools for opening up power -- open budgets online, on-line spending public funds, local government funds, state-owned enterprise funds, treasury funds. We're talking about online bidding for the purchase and sale of state property and property, we're talking about open competitions for the appointment of heads of state enterprises, we're talking about the general trends in the opening of property rights registers, we're talking about the creation of a single programming platform for a state demographic register, where both the mobilisation reserve and the register of ownership rights will be included, and other registers that would fully satisfy the state administration's knowledge of the person. We don't look at or implement these tools for some reason. But these tools are the only way to succeed both Kabmin and the President of Ukraine. A few interesting facts from what we now see when we talk about human resources policy are that we don't want to see opportunities for qualified people. Somehow this trend is the assignment of its own, the appointment of "Roschen", the appointment of "people I know" still prevails over the state's position of people. Some of the mandates of the State Property Fund, in particular, allow you to block even the rent of a roof right now, for example, the roof of a state-owned enterprise to install a mobile operator's antenna, which is absurd, but we don't want to change anything, it's a causal link. A causal link, in my mind, is that the people who steal today, who assign theirs instead of theirs today, are the people who have contact with the Maydan killings, the Crimea killings and the killings in eastern Ukraine. This causal link in a brief response that I have heard from people themselves. They often ask, Why do they act like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u77	Please, 30 seconds, finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u78	Ten seconds, with your permission. People said a brilliant answer. People say that because the President and the Prime Minister lost nothing on Maidan. So they didn't rip their hands off, they didn't lose their business, they didn't hide their closest friends. That is why they allow themselves to be treated that way. I urge you to pay attention to our historical truth, our historical past. The people in Maidan demanded change, and these changes are part of the openness of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u79	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national MPs, a massive attack by fighters at the position of Ukrainian troops under Marinka on our daughter this week is one step towards the restoration of active hostilities on our suffering Donbassa, whom I have warned of the indispensability of all this time. This is combat intelligence and preparations for the offensive of Russian-terrorist forces in all directions. This is also the result of the deception of the Ukrainians by the illusion of peace on the basis of the so - called Minsk Accords. They were the ones who gave terrorists the opportunity to create a powerful armed army with over 50,000 fighters and hundreds of heavy equipment units. The horde is now ready for a new attack, designed, trained, and armed by Russia. And not just on Donbassa. Putin is considering a plan to use it to capture all of Ukraine. This is one of the main results of the so - called peace treaties of Minsk. Did Ukraine use a conditional truce to build its military force and defence to build a powerful line of defence, to carry out active international diplomacy, to obtain military assistance, especially modern weapons of defense? These questions are rhetorical. So the Minsk Accords, which our Western partners and President Poshenko have so praised, have actually become a real bomb of slow action for Ukraine. Today, Putin purposefully ignored them and reinvigorated the fighting. This happens by no means on the eve of the "great seven" summit in Germany, where the Ukrainian theme will be among the main ones. Putin throws another challenge to the international community, increases pressure on the leaders of the "great seven" and is actually blackmailing them with the complete collapse of the Minsk peace process that has been triggered by Merkel, Holland and Obama and the hostages they have now become. The Kremlin's goal is to demoralize a civilized world, to paralyze its will to the decisive opposition to Russia's new renaissance. The path is needed, not by peace, but by the principle of concession from Europe and the United States. The path needs a new geopolitical chapter in the world. Ukraine, of course. The free policy of appeasement of an aggressor based on European illusions, fears, and concessions has already cost Ukraine dearly. And the price of self-deception will only increase. I call on the leaders of the Great Seven to wake up from their pacifist lethargy sleep and to give a decisive stop to Putin right now. Both the fate of Ukraine and the fate of Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u81	Thank you. People’s deputy Osuhovski was invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u82	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! Actually, today our task force is done. We investigated the millions of abuses of the governments of Azarov and the current government of Jacinyuk. In fact, all these facts are confirmed by the ex-head of Mr. Gordienko's financials. And it is confirmed that Mr. Gordienko himself was illegally dismissed. What was he fired for? Only because he gave the Prime Minister 46 acts of multibillion-dollar violations, i.e. 7.6 billion. And he was fired for it. Clearly, there has been great sabotage and conspiracy because corrupters in today’s world are working with the media. Although I thank the media. When I led the task force, who supported me alone, it was the media. Because I tried to keep the working group open and that the media would bring the whole truth to the Ukrainian society. And for this truth to be confirmed by financial inspection, from the Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A.'s got 12 criminal leads. But that's very little. Such cases require hundreds of criminal conduct. The D.A. sabotaged the last session, didn't come in at all, and banned financial inspection from reporting any reports or information to our task force. But all these multibillion - dollar facts have been confirmed. And we're asking the Attorney General's Office for the real arrests of all those corrupts and the return of that stolen money back to the Ukrainian budget. And from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, we demand the release of all those corrupts. They're still in their positions, especially in Energoatom. The head of Energoatum has been in office for 10 years now, it's a billion-dollar abuse every year, and our task force has been investigating, and has found abuse for today, for 8 billion dollars. This is true of the same Ministry of Infrastructure, where the abuse of 780 million dollars, from January to September 2014, i.e. 6 months of checking the current government. We certainly have at our next plenary session to adopt the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions, which should address all the corruption and sabotage of law enforcement authorities regarding the investigation of multibillion - dollar corruption in government, both Azarova and Yatsenuk. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Welcome to the words of Yegor Sobolev, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u84	I ask all of us to mention the light memory of Sergey Kostakov, a cyanian, an entrepreneur who was one of the first to enter the tax haven, was arrested, spent most of his life in the Middle East, and then with the help of you, active people, in the Czech Republic, was able to move to this country to get political asylum, but when Putin attacked Ukraine he returned from a comfortable European life because he was once a specialist in the army. He went to one of the first volunteers in the 72nd Brigade, fought that terrible summer, got into the Izvarin boiler, and he was a real hero, and at the same time a man who wasn't in line with unqualified command, with corruption. Who fought with his commanders, who forced the scouts to take out a car that begged for a proper, real job of a specialist who was arrested directly on the front of the local Volnovska militia, because in their base, they found that he was still looking for the tax haven. Who was again released because of the indignation that arose in the entire society and its brothers, who had obtained their translation into one of the largest fighting Ukrainian parts and on the day of their translation, disappeared. This happened last November. We've all been looking for him. Many have made an effort to do so. Yesterday his body was found in a woodshed, too, near Walnovah, handcuffed with bullet holes. Let the earth be his smoke. I think it's up to us all to investigate this murder and to deny those who are involved in it, what kind of pursuits, what kind of clothes, what kind of masks don't belong to these people. Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u85	Please sit down. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Tomenka, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! We had, I remember, a Friday was always the day of a few clowns, and today we had fun with the whole government. And I was so impressed that I would have invited these kids to the barracks, for example, 11 separate brigades in the Hersonian area, where I was last week. And they have mattresses that are ten times as bad as I had in Afghanistan in 1983! So I would like the Ministry of Defense to go to a hospital with these funny people who don't have any medicine today and don't know how to treat people! Then they went to congregations of village councils, where they tell us that they are united voluntarily, and read us the main plans for budgetary policy. It says, according to a plan developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The plan is already in Kiev! They know how much better it is to unite villages where buses do not go and there are no roads! That's why I have an offer. I honor our Head of the Supreme Council. Except it's not KWN here. If KWN is here, I'll write a statement and go somewhere else! Because this "caffeine" is already here! If we work here and we're responsible, we have to work and take responsibility, and not play here. The president said in his speech yesterday that he wants to make 2016 an English year. Of course, as a Ukrainian, I wanted to be a year of Ukrainian. But in fact 2016, 2017 and all the years to come, we have to make it a year for the Ukrainian people. Because he's been forgotten about the poor guy for these shows and these perphomens that are playing here. So I'm convinced that with all due respect for the President's speech yesterday, as one classic said we didn't have a lot of time, so there was so much writing that we had to write less, but to mention that there's a nation that has an economy. In the speech, the word "workplace" is never mentioned. What does small and medium - size business do? You know, we've got private skyscrapers two months ahead of entrepreneurs today. How do they live, how do they raise their economy? And we're talking about Russia because it's clear that they're enemies, our opponents, and so on. Well, you can't talk about Russia and Putin all your life. Russia is not to be fought, Ukraine must be fought. Because the classic taught us that we can unite a country, not with hatred, but with love. And with all due respect for our international community, Americans, Europeans and even Georgians will not be saved. Because this is our land, we were born here, and our parents are here. And besides us, no one can save her. So let's either lose the state or save it. I hope we can save you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u87	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u88	Good day to you, presiding fellows of honor! I'd like to talk to you today about the question that Mr. Mikola Tomenko raised about our jobs. The key problem is the war of two economic paradigms. One economic paradigm says that everything will happen in itself, that the state is a "nocturnal guard," that deregulation settles everything, that the invisible hand of the market is self-adjusting. We're the only ones asking the apologists of this system: tell me, where have you seen examples in the world of this economy? Where you've seen at least one successful country in the world that has succeeded without a specific partnership between the state and business, without a particular industry policy, without a policy of developing high-tech sectors of the economy and the tools that support it. Let's answer for them. There are no such examples. The whole world combines horizontal reforms, these are reforms that apply to all spheres of life. It's a fight against corruption. It's a deregulation. It's raising an anti-monopoly ceiling with vertical reforms. This is a specific focus on priority activities and tools for supporting them. In Ukraine we see four types of activities that we need to focus on. These are the kinds of activities where we have the basic infrastructure, where we have people who are educated. This includes machine building, KPC, aerospace, agglomerated construction, craft building, energy engineering, autopromising, and components. It's a processing industry. We have to stop being a raw World Add-on. Everything leaving Ukraine in the form of raw materials should be taxed by export duties, or, as in the case of the forest, is temporarily restricted. This is the area of high technology, material science, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, IT, where freedom is needed first. This freedom cannot be achieved today without the high wages of officials. We can't afford that right now. Throughout Ukraine, let us create points of growth, areas of freedom, where we can guarantee that the state will not intervene. And this is definitely the direction of energy conservation. We need tools that are being used around the world. For example, the Export Credit Agency. Six months, as stipulated in the Coalition Agreement, we do not see a single step from the government. Since 1994, Ukraine has not been able to create an export credit agency because raw oligarchus, which ruled for 23 years, are not needed. It only needs high-tech exports. It's all that's needed is for the industries that are in strict competition. We don't have a development bank. And now we're talking about how the National Bank managed to make 96 billion dollars in 2014. It's very simple because because of the high rate of interest, he pulled money out of the economy instead of building specific focus programs to support high-tech industries. So we need to combine free processes with specific sectoral partnerships and development tools, as all our countries are using neighbours and all our countries are successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u89	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u90	We don't have to invent anything. Slovakia, Poland, Turkey, even Romania use tools, fight for investments, and we need to imitate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Here's to the words of National Deputy Anton Kisse, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u92	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, dear voters! Today, I was moved to make a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the implementation of the law on voluntary association of communities. You know, the very fact of this debate at the Presidential level is very important, honorable and, I think, relevant conclusions and recommendations will be made. However, in my question, I have asked the main question and the main question that voters are asking us, and in particular in the 142 constituency, is the Artizsky, Tarutinsky, Bolgradsky, Saratsky and Kiliy oblasts. The public would like to know if this was the way to unite communities, when more than 40 per cent did not know what the results would be, which would result in this association. Is it possible to get this information from Kiev at the centre? I think it would be more rational and more useful to respond to the appeals of the people's deputies who are urged, and the electorates require that the relevant Ministry of the Ministry of Mineregionboud travel to the regions and explain what points might be positive for a particular region, for a particular community? I will tell you, I think at all the sessions of the regional councils, there was simply an attempt to sell a forward-looking community plan when the communities knew nothing about it and specific deadlines were set. I turn to my fellow MPs, I turn to the Government that the word voluntary goes into history, it is spoken of only in Parliament and Kiev, and on the ground, it is tried to bring together communities that are still so poor, and if united, it will be ten times more poor. People want to know if the FAPs will work? Will preschool facilities stay that way, or will they be reduced in time, and buildings will be deserted? What about an area such as Bolgradsky, where there are between 5,000 and 6,000 people in one village, about which communities can be united? We will move on to the issue of inter-national composition, and my region, in particular the constituency as no other compact, is characterized by the compactness of the residence of national minorities. And it is clearly stated in the law in article 4 of paragraph 4: “In view of the ethnos that live”, but unfortunately the word “ethnost” has disappeared in the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that the Cabinet of Ministers should start directly, in a concrete, consistent way, working with the people's deputies and with the people those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Welcome to Victor Halasyuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u94	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! Old economic policy is ineffective, unable to cope with the challenges facing Ukraine today. The country needs a new economic course, it needs a non-privatisation rate – at a time when state ownership costs the least, when even successful private enterprises today do not sell at the desired price. The necessary rate is not for the sale of agricultural land, when the peasants are poor, they have no opportunity to take credit and that land to buy, process, and have to pay it for nothing, and it will be a new wave of oligarization. The demand is not for fashion deregulation, which is deregulation when entrepreneurs come to the bank, but there are 35 percent credits when today corruption is the same as it was yesterday, when in European markets no one is waiting for us and we have to fight for them. So is this deregulation a panacea? No, there isn't! Privatisation, land sales and deregulation are the wrong economic priorities for Ukraine today. The real economic priorities that should be on the board and the minister of economy, both the Prime Minister, and the President, and every parliamentarian, are, first of all, the jobs, they are investments, they are exports and taxes paid in Ukraine. When official unemployment has passed by 10 percent, industrial production has declined by more than 20 percent, when capital investment and freight have fallen to a quarter, even without inflation adjustment, it is time to strike. It's not just a crisis anymore, it's a deep and long-lasting economic recession that has every chance of going into economic depression. So this crisis and this recession need to be treated very radically. It's not just about carrying out surface economic reforms, but the country needs a radical economic transformation of the economy and society, and we need to take advantage of today, including President Roosevelt's experience in overcoming the great depression in the United States. We're in a similar situation today. Economic indicators show that it is not just about population poverty because of the shocking devaluation of bracelets and dragon price increases, because of the critical import dependency, that the lack of proactive state economic and industrial policy dictates that the state continue to drift to the economic break. We have no right to do that! We need to listen to international practice, to the voice of the mind, and today to focus all the efforts of state policy on overcoming unemployment, creating.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u95	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u96	for the creation of new jobs, for the introduction of powerful incentives for investment, for large-scale energy-generating, for the large-scale promotion of export expansion, for the restoration of national production. This is the only way we will save our economy and build a strong independent and successful state, so that we will pave the way for Ukraine into a European future, and that is the only way that we will make Ukraine more than just a geogross.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u97	Please, please finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u98	Ukraine needs an industrial policy model, a state development bank, an expert credit agency, an industrial park network, a small business support fund, a preference for public procurement for local producers. This is a real Ukrainian economic policy advocated by the Radical Party. We encourage all colleagues to join such economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Victor. Please stick to the rules, after all. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Jaroslav Lesyuk, "Block of Peter Poroshenko". People's MP Demczak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u100	National MP Demczak Ruslan Evgenovich, 18th constituency, Petra Poroshenko's Block. Respectable citizens, honourable deputies! Today we face the need for legislative changes to simplify business for small and medium-sized enterprises. For a long time, I led the Kiev Employers' Federation and I'm now being asked by entrepreneurs: where is the improvement in the business that we've been talking about for so long? And I'm not talking about entrepreneurs who were able to use state resources and, by sucking up this government resource, build themselves financial empires. I say for those entrepreneurs who, by their means, created a small hotel, a restaurant, or a cafe, and they, on their shoulders, the Cabinet of Ministers, went to Gruszewski. These are the people who are now, in the context of war, giving up the last money to support our army, so that we can live in a stable and peaceful country. I think it's the Cabinet of Ministers who has the most experts and can see a complex business deregulation problem for. Business in our country, it has to submit to Parliament a set of bills that will make it possible to simplify business for small and medium-sized businesses. What Is Needed? Well, pepper, it's to simplify the communication between business and country so there's no such thing. The possibilities of corrupt bribes are the ones we're talking about right now and we're talking about deregulation. To simplify communication as much as possible. Second, it is the State that must guarantee macroeconomic indicators within the limits it has declared so that entrepreneurs, before they don't make money, don't spend them on the exchange rate difference anymore. Third. These are tax rates. If we can't lower our taxes now in the context of war, we have to at least guarantee that these taxes are stable, and they are. We do. It's a very good idea, for example, for a single social contribution, but in this question, you have to put a dot once so that we can lower the bet once and for a long time. And we didn't play it the way we do it now. And, of course, what for. That business needs to be guaranteed capitalization, so we need cheap resources. We expect the Cabinet of Ministers to bring about a set of changes in the near future. We remember the motivation to receive the budget by 12 p.m. I think you can find time for motivation to support business. We're waiting for the Cabinet of Ministers to make some legislative changes, and we're the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u101	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u102	And we people's deputies, I'm sure we'll back them up on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u103	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexia Musak, "The Peter Prashenko Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u104	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Ukrainian Community, Honourable Fellow MPs! We heard the President's speech yesterday. They spoke today, listened to the Prime Minister’s speech. Each of them speaks of deligarization. Each discusses the fight against corruption. Our European partners also talk about fighting corruption. Now, let's see how this can be done when the highest legislative body in Ukraine, and specifically the national MPs, get 4,700 -- wages? Well, actually. We used to have 17,000. Then we have 6 and a half thousand, now we have 4700. And we have to convince our foreign colleagues that the Ukrainian National MP will vote as the state needs for $200. Yesterday we took off our tariffs. At the moment, in fact, the Supreme Council is working. But it can't take long, well, it's not a viable model. Yesterday we took off the tariffs on corruption, cloudy, green tariffs for the particular company Clovis. Well, he made 8 million dollars a day! That's more than the entire constituency makes in the whole neighborhood! Yes!? Appropriately let us decide: Either there should be a decent wage, or then, come on, if you're shaking, you're shivering. Everyone. Being a national deputy is a privilege, so let us pay for the privilege of giving up our pension. After death, every national MP has to give his heart to Chechachish, because Bogdan Hmelnicki and Shevchenko were born there, and he has to give the liver to Lviv, because it's great restaurants and everything, well, and so on and so forth. Now, if you're serious. The second question. We need to make it clear that the decline in the salaries of the national deputy does not lead to any economy for the people of Ukraine. The cocory of the Supreme Council remained. When last year (Lords, 2 minutes, and so much more to say), when we got paid from 17 to 16 and a half last year, this difference then went to the Supreme Council's Apparatus. This is wrong. What's more, I want to tell you that there's a tremendous opportunity to save. I just picked up some papers. Mr. Groissman is talking about going to "electronic government." That's 200. Give me 30 seconds, I'll get you a thousand for five or ten, that's the national deputy's salary in one month. And accordingly, the third. A decent salary, that's a perfectly normal practice. The Supreme Council is now showing effective work. We're not asking for any extra funds from the budget, but at the expense of optimisation, at the expense of paper failure, we're actually checking. In 20 years, there was no Supreme Council check, which is where she spends it. So on account of this test, I'm sure you can find 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u105	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u106	At least 30 percent of the Supreme Council checks, at least 300 million a year. And these funds are going to raise the wages of the people's deputies so that they can live with dignity and not tell how they can live for 4,700. So the problem is that we have some national MPs who have shown zero revenue in the last year. Then the question is, how do they live? Thank you for your attention. I hope you have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u107	Thank you. National MP Oleg Musei, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you one little fairy tale that you were all witnesses to today, and I've been watching in this room about the saboteur, the osmalist, and today the clown in the hall and the circuser Arsenius Yatsenuk. And it refers primarily to the coal sector and the concern for the coal sector that it tells us in words and what is actually happening. As of today, coal miners have a 50 - percent re-indebted salary. Two months ago, our interfractional association "Protect the Coal Branch", which includes 25 people's deputies, together with the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, together with the other three ministries, together with all state-owned enterprises, including the CTEC, finally signed, after the memorandum, the concept of the development of the coal sector by 2020. And we've been able to work out even a plan of action for its implementation, with specific annual figures. This plan of action will give Ukraine energy independence and energy to us. And we don't need electricity from Russia, we don't have to buy coal anywhere. For 2017, we're going to be positive for this concept and plan of action. To do this, it is only in this year’s budget that 2 billion dollars should be spent on the development of the coal sector. It's not for eating, it's for development. Minister. Imagine the situation in the government, and yesterday it was evidence that Arsenius Petrovich is translating his own incompetence into a coalition and other members of the coalition. Minister Demchisin cannot reach Arsenius Petrovich for two months with a concept and a plan for the development of the coal sector. What kind of government is this? Who is this prime minister who promises one thing and actually does another? Therefore, I think that this statement must be considered, by the honourable deputies of the Supreme Council, by the MPs for the immediate consideration of the government at the nearest meeting, at the nearest one, prepared and signed by the Ukrainian National Deputies and by the Ministry of the Concept and Plan of Action for the Implementation of this Concept on Mines and Coal. And pay off the wages immediately, which have been recollected. There is another small show in the Ministry of Health. The minister made an excellent report today. Thank God, in a six - year period, he finally came to terms with the development of the health sector. But what is really going on? This bill, which he submits to the Supreme Council for the Total Privatization of Health Institutions, is totally unacceptable. And that's why I'm paying attention to it from this height.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u109	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u110	Ten seconds. And I think the Hall will support me in preventing us from completely privatizing the health system. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Welcome to Yuri Lewchenk's word, "Freedom".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear Ukrainian people! Dear TV setters, radio audiences! Yesterday at the President's address to Parliament, the President spoke many fine words about fighting corruption. Today Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk spoke of what was illustrated and, literally, the head of the Kiev militia, Mr. Tereshuk, yesterday or today. But unfortunately, last night's statement by the President, that today's confession by Arsenija Petrovich tells us that we're actually having some kind of ossification, some kind of butaphoria -- nice words about change of frame, about illustration, about fighting corruption, and the fight against corruption is basically a change of frame, and in reality nothing is happening. Well, think about it. Kiev's chief police officer, Tereshuk, was illustrated today, or was it there yesterday. But he was appointed by a new authority last summer. I don't understand that the new authority is Arsen Avakov, Arseny Petrovich Yatzenuk, the President, they didn't know who Tereshuk was, what did he do on Volina when he was a militiaman there? It's just, they only found out about it today, or how could they not have assigned it before? And this example is the quintension of the nonsense that we have today in power when instead of putting new honest people who are not stained, who really want to work in the country, not work in their own pocket, put their former ones, put the Jews Janukovich, put their best friends, brothers, married people. And then once every two months, maybe someone's getting laid off to give society a bone. But society sees everything. So society sees that the aunts are still cracking illegal fences, for example, in Kiev. And today, Habakkuk was not here in the Supreme Council, he didn't come, he was afraid to come, but still his mint eagles are working with the aunts -- those who beat people on the Maidan and killed people on the Maidan -- today are breaking illegal walls. Today, authorities are planting activists who are fighting this corruption. Now, I would like to point out from this rostrum that, literally in 15 minutes, an activist from Kiev's Sergey Sarnavsky, who is fighting against illegal oblivions, who is currently at war with his aunts, who tried to save the people of ordinary women two months ago -- grandmothers, children from the aunts who beat them. He, of course, gave the resistance worthy of these aunts, physically resisted them, and now he's being detained, and now they want to put these Avakov bandits in pursuit. Because he fights for justice, he fights for the truth. This is reality today in the country where there is one conversation, and this fantasy, this comedy is happening here in the Supreme Council, in the Cabinet of Ministers. This is the whole comedy when they talk about fighting corruption. And in reality, the same people that Maydan was driving away, the same people who had been involved in corruption for decades, continue to rule the country. I'm asking you to give me 10 more seconds. I'm gonna take another turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u113	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u114	To Habakkuk, to Yatsenuk, to the President. You're going to be amazed, you're finally going to change something in human resources policy. Because if you don't, people will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u115	Please, you've asked for 10 seconds, Mr. Yuri. I gave you 10 seconds. Finish up. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy, Andrew Galchenk, "The Opposition Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u116	Andrew Galchenko, 32nd District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine! I am not here to criticize anyone, to mark the acute problem that has touched millions of Ukrainians today, and all the regions of our country, respectively. That's the point. As a result of the promulgation of Cabinet Regulation No. 240 of 2 July 2014 on reference pricing for medicines purchased for public and local budgets in the city of Krivo Rog, and not only in the city, a critical supply situation has arisen. This is particularly true of concessional categories. The paradox is that more than 17 million bracelets in the city budget cannot be used in full time. This is due to the fact that many medicines are simply not included in the leave-of-charge register. Prices entered are lower than even supplier purchase prices. For example, as of 20 May 2015, if you take at least the first 10 pages, out of 134 products, 84 are imported, and the price, just think about it, is based on the value of 12 bracelets of 99 copies per dollar. In turn, the Kabmina logic treatment institutions cannot obtain medicines at prices higher than those stated in the register. That is, an overwhelming number of drugs are simply not available to those in need. But that's not all. On 31 March this year, Kabmin apparently decided to save on citizens of the country who were suffering from rare diseases and adopted Decree No. 160. According to him, patients who have received the necessary medicines free of charge for years can now receive the medicine only after the adoption of the special commissions of the Ministry of Health and the regional public administration. It's only when these commissions start working that is completely incomprehensible. This is of particular concern to the lives and health of our fellow countrymen, given that, as early as December 2014, the Ministry of Health reported that all tenders had been made regarding the procurement of medicines. Well, let them tell the mothers of the city of the Horn of Curve, and not only for whose children have not yet entered the city, I emphasize no BCG vaccine against tuberculosis. So far, 4 months ago, the incidence of tuberculosis was 100 per cent, an increase of 100 per cent. Am I, excuse me, is this a nuisance or a criminal act against our children? I want to understand clearly who's going to be punished for this and when the vaccine comes to the cities and villages. I think you will support me, no matter who the faction is, because it concerns our people, our Ukrainians. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u117	Please finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u118	Please take into account my official request to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. And I want this problem resolved as soon as possible. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u119	Thank you. I'm sorry, we missed National Deputy Alexander Sugonako, Peter Dustenka Block, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u120	Sugonako Alexander, 158 constituency, strike group. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Six months later, as members of the Supreme Council, we took an oath of loyalty to the people and to the state. I think there are some things that need to be summed up. Hundreds of bills have passed through the Supreme Council, but it's like trying to respond to the challenges of today's war in the East, to the many problems that have accumulated within the country, to the protests and dissatisfaction of our citizens with rising tariffs, prices and further impoverishment of the people. But unfortunately, colleagues, very little has been done and legislation has been proposed on real reforms, especially in the real sector of the economy. I have proposed a bill with colleagues on the development of the production and market of alternative fuels, the deregulation of the production of fuel ethanol and the harmonization of legislation with European Union standards, which is intended to finally bring about order and harmonize relations in the field of the production of alternative fuels. To give impetus to the development of the entire field of economics and agriculture of biofuel production. So alternative fuels don't grow raps -- by sucking juice out of fertile soil, and then selling it as raw material to Germany and buying diesel from abroad, three-way diesel, and then starting to produce alternative fuels from raps, corn, sorghum, etc. And sell it for export, and that's the taxes that we've been talking about here, both the jobs and the budgets of the different levels. This is suggested by the first step, at the legislative level, to define the legal status of fuel ethanol as a commodity position in order to make it impossible to double the interpretation, to move away from corrupt, conditionally, cloudy schemes, to clearly separate different commodity groups. Spirit is alcohol, fuel ethanol is a biofuel group, and greenery is a green pharmacological product. Each product group has its own status, its own UTZED code, and its own standards. By the way, fuel ethanol is as suited as possible to European technical conditions. This bill is the first step towards transparent regulation of the production of alternative fuels. We need to start legislative steps in the area of economics, which in the future, colleagues, will contribute to the development of the whole economy of the country, namely energy independence, and security issues, and the future of our nation. I look forward to your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Dmitry Lubinz, "Block of Peter Prashenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u122	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Lubinets Dmitry, 60 constituency, Donetsk district, Peter Prashenko's Block. I'll tell you what's really going on with the situation of smuggling in the Donetsk district. Oleg Valerevich, let me tell you what's really going on with the smuggling in Donetsk, I think you'll find it interesting. Look, a week ago, when he was working in his district, he came to the first block 20 miles from Donetsk, and he saw this situation. The grain - laden furs go one by one by Donetsk, which gave me the surprise of the fact that more trucks may be able to pass in violation of the MRL's decision. Needed clarification on what I was given this paper, it was signed by Mr. Vorobiev's first deputy head of the anti-terrorist centre at the BSS. This paper obliges the “B” sector manager to organize multi-car travel. More to the surprise, why did they give such a paper? The following has been shown to have a focal point, such as the State Fiscal Service, Colonel Vlasov Police, Lieutenant Colonel Danilevski's BSS, Lieutenant Colonel Lapicuk's Ministry of Internal Affairs, Lieutenant Colonel Greenevich, and there is also Lieutenant Colonel Marczev. What are they doing? It's all signed with their signatures. It turns out they're being approached by some head of the Pavlov village council, I'm drawing your attention, I'm not even an expert, I'm wondering what the press is. This is where the village council of the people's deputies is printed. Such seals were in Ukraine until 1997. I have a question, and the ATC focal point has not raised any questions at all. It's not enough that every car offers a consignment note signed by a company called Defens. I found out that it was the only firm legally able to move any goods through the area of contact. It's not enough paper, it's an analysis of imported goods. In our case, it's for grain. There's a village where this was done, nameless. The nameless is the former Novoazov region, captured by eight months by militants. Look, they're driving through Ukraine, and in half an hour, I was in area 20. Locals say that more than a hundred cars pass a day. Everybody understands, everybody sees, everybody settles. What kind of blockade are we talking about when we buy goods from occupied territory for our money, we finance terrorists?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u123	Finish up. Give me time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u124	I wrote the MP's address. I want all the deputies to know. Let's see what answers I get. Most importantly, we will see what human resources will be drawn. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Lozov, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u126	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, dear colleagues, I've been to the session of the Kyiv District Council today and I'm very ashamed. For you to understand, in our time, after the Dignity Revolution, when there's a national-liberal war going on in the east of the Head of the Kiev District Council, Mikola Babenko refuses to give the National Deputies a word at the session, we have had to kidnap him. And even the regionals didn't allow themselves to have this mess. And it's very embarrassing and very bitter. Why did I come? Because people are now howling all over the country, in Kiev in particular, because of what's called an administrative reform. In fact, we do need an administrative reform. These Soviet standards of administrative division have long been a reality. But we've got everything going on right now, so we can water-paint the baby. We see that they break through the knee instead of doing it. The real administration can only take place when the initiative goes down, when the village council first decides, then the district session, then the district session, and then we're here with you, and Kabmin. Let's get this thing over with. What is happening today throughout the country? In Kiev, this is particularly the problem of Borispian society, the problem of Borovarov, the problem of the Kyiv-Svetoshin region. Officials sit around, circles draw neighborhoods, governorates, what happens is that it breaks through the knee instead of changing local self-government in Ukraine. And that's why I urge you all to help make the initiative go down, because if we vote in the Council for this so-called administrative reform, when, for example, there is a village, and no resident in this village has been consulted on how the administrative-territorial division is to change, it's not an administrative reform, it's a campaign that will lead to chaos in the state, it's a catastrophe of the government of local self-government. Next, it is very sad that the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk did not come to the Council today. I hope he hears this. Minister, you know how much respect I have for you. We all understand that you can't take once -- change this whole complex system of the IMF. We all know that only step-by-step, just step-by-step. And as you know, they used to say, "get out of the dogs to the Greeks," and now the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs is experiencing a "go from the garbage" to the national police. Well, we'll never have a normal national police when in the Donetsk region where the war is going on today, the administration of internal affairs is headed by the villain Abroskin, who -- think about it -- is a respected citizen! – drives a stolen car that is fixed by an Artemian RV of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The district police chief is driving a stolen car, a Porsche-Kane, which has been repressing Ukrainian patriots, particularly Constantine Krivic, in the past of a candidate from the Radical Party in Volnova County, who has no way of trading with the DNR, mentioned by a colleague of Lubinets. I'd like to ask you ten more seconds, and I'd like to call on the President and invite all the colleagues who have the opportunity to be heard, we have a very loud, very loud voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u127	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u128	Tragedy. The tragedy of Il-76, the tragedy of Ilovia, the tragedy of Debaltsev. The President's personal will is to block the investigation! The Military Prosecutor’s Office for Debaltsev has yet to refer anything to court. This is a great shame and a great shame! Those generals who have led their foolish actions to the murder of our heroes, the murder of their best sons, this country, they must be, they must be brought to justice! And the whole country needs to see! And I'm sure if we had the proper pro-Ukrainian power, these villains who killed our heroes, we'd be shot here in Midan, so that no one else could! Because those who are fighting for Ukraine today should not die because of the stupidity of the generals! Thank you. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u129	Thank you. And the last performance, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u130	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today was an hour of questions to the government. And you know, I'm kind of embarrassed to talk about it. But it was some sort of lame show, an inconvenient comedy club in government execution. And you know, too much of a good mood in them, too many jokes in them, too many of them acting like they're doing great. I think that's because they got away from reality. They were cut off from the ground. Because if they were to communicate with the citizens and they were to tell them about their impressions of new payments for residential services, from the prices of first-aid products in stores, from the prices of medicine, I think they'd have a slightly different mood. And he'd be a little messed up. Because I worked in my constituency last week, I met citizens. I was at the reception, meeting right outside. And I'll say that what they feel can be described in one word. It's a shock. It's a shock! Because no one knows what to do with these new tariffs. No one knows how to receive these so - called subsidies. People have absolute despair. People feel abandoned. At the same time, war continues in the country. The last few days, we've been under a lot of pressure, and we're hearing in the Supreme Council on "the hour of questions to the government," and I'm sorry for that word, it's a very difficult word. And to tell you the truth, today was just embarrassing. Humans have really cut themselves off from the earth. And at the same time, we see that the illustration is broken, we see all of the understaffing policies that are happening today. We see this so-called administrative reform that's happening right now and people are just in shock, they don't know what's going on, they're trying to unite them violently. Now another social explosion is happening. And instead of a thorough discussion we see the execution of that. In general, I believe that we, the Freemasons, will be recommending, we will be giving an appropriate bill, we want to change the Rules so that an hour of questions to the government is an hour of questions to the government, not 40 minutes of completely empty monologues from the rostrum, and at best 20 minutes to the question when the Prime Minister does not answer for two minutes, but four or five minutes to the question. Please, the hour of full questions to the government, the hour at. One minute to question, two minutes to answer. You can't answer in two minutes, so the next question. Then it can really be said that this will be a more normal time of questions to the government. And lastly, I'd like to say that today we really have to stop this show and do the real thing. And what we saw here today in the Supreme Council was indignant to me personally. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-05-m0.u131	Thank you. We've completed our consideration of the various issues and the morning session I'm calling it closed. The next plenary session will take place on June 16 at 10 a.m.
