ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Please enter the conference room to begin the session. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work and the heads of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! All national deputies please take their seats in the hall, prepare for registration. Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:11:35]] 288 national deputies in the hall. I declare the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have an hour of questions to the government, a question to question from the MP factions and groups. I invite you to take the floor for the report 10 minutes Hennaday Grigorovich Zubko, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u3	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! Today, I would like to give this "hour of questions to the government" part of the question of how is the decentralisation of community unification that is taking place in society in relation to the laws you have adopted and the voluntary unification of communities, and the cooperation between the territorial communities, and the state of play. It's a very difficult situation today that at the same time we need to reform all sectors of local self-government, the ability to transfer powers, and the main thing is that the local elections are now virtually under way. To date, you have adopted the Budget Decentralisation Act in 2015, which has specifically enabled our communities to obtain additional budgetary resources, which I believe are being used effectively to ensure a new quality of life. You, too, have accepted the Regional Development Fund, which sent 2.9 billion to support 844 investment projects that help to form quality communities today. After the Law on voluntary unification of communities was passed, 6,300 territorial communities initiated their unification. That's almost half of the communities that are in Ukraine today have pushed for effective economic communities that can take over. To date, 180 communities have passed through district councils and legal associations. But only 75 were able to make decisions in time by August 15, and the district councils initiated not only their merger but also the possibility that they would go to the elections on October 25, they would receive their new local self - government body, which would be able to perform these functions with authority to provide all the intelligence programs and to take on all the functions. Today, unfortunately, almost 105 communities have remained outside. And we stand before today, if we don't allow the adoption of Law 3008 to go to the elections, the state will re-expenditure the elections on October 25, and then, literally in a month, we'll be proposing to go to the new local elections again. And today, I think it's the people's choice that should give such green light to our communities, who have initiated, who have taken the initiative to find leaders who can lead by this process, to enable them to get what they already have by law. I would like to add that information that is now in parallel with the unification of the territorial communities. In order for communities to become united effectively economic and capable, much more needs to be passed on to them. Since September 1, we've been handing them functions over to the state-architectural construction commission. But it's not just a control function or inspectors, it's a function that allows them to specifically build infrastructure and decide what exactly needs to be done in their territory, how to build a new approach to infrastructure and to the concept of life, by passing on the cost, by giving up the ability to build. Today, too, we are proposing a draft law that will allow them to obtain and manage land resources, not only within populated areas as before, but to give them the opportunity to manage fully the investment and investment within the territorial community that they have merged. This is what almost the whole country is waiting for, people living in cities and in rural areas, because they are the owners of their land, today they have the opportunity, according to budgetary decentralization, to collect taxes, to fill the budget and to perform their functions. And that's why today it's not just in the budget, it's in the construction, it's also in the things that allow them to invest. We have a lot of problems before doing these things, changing the laws that apply to their function. And now almost 22 sectors are being reformed on decentralization in order to pass functions on to them, in order to make them no longer rich, independent, and make them more prosperous. And so today the Supreme Council has the opportunity to accelerate this process. Law 3008, which was introduced yesterday, allows you to do very simple things, change the blockage of the district councils of those processes that are there, and today we see this in the Ternopil area where, unfortunately, politics prevents you from doing so, in the Zakartat region, and allowing the CEC to allocate timely elections in these communities, not to spend any extra budget. And today, to those citizens who are active, to get their new local self-government body and to achieve the new quality of life that both the Supreme Council and the government and the President are proposing, by handing over authority to the places. So, honourable national MPs, I propose to uphold Law 3008 today. We have very little time left to make the final decision. But the main thing to understand is today's decentralization reform is not a question of Parliament, it's not a matter of government, it's already the momentum that was given by the President, it's a question of people who today just demand to be delegated to them. So please support Law 3008, please help our citizens to be independent, independent and make decisions that allow them to change the quality of life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u4	Thank you, fellow national MPs. I'd like a minute of your attention on Gennady Grigorovich's speech, a question about. There will be time for questions and answers. The language is the draft Law 3008, the one that was announced and, in fact, the law is supported by all the all-U.S. organizations, associations of local self-government bodies. Raise your head, please, in the guest room. There are village, village heads, heads of all three associations of local self - government bodies who have come here today to uphold this law, asking you to uphold this law. Am I right? And I'd like to ask, colleagues, yesterday we had such an interesting discussion on this subject, and I would like to ask you now to mobilize the deputies, and we're going to be acting as Deputy Minister of Education Sergey Mironovich Flower. I'm asking the faction leaders to secure the presence of deputies in the hall now. After Sergey Mironovich's speech, I will put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of 3008 as the last day of the opportunity for these people to choose their authority in the united communities that did so entirely voluntarily. Please, colleagues, let me ask Sergey Mironovich Flower, Minister of Education, 10 minutes' notice. Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u5	Congratulations, fellows of honor! I have a number of questions from the National Deputies about issues related to education. And partly these questions came to the Ministry, partly even now my colleagues stopped me and asked me about certain things. So the first question is the textbooks. The question from the national deputy was whether our funds, or 130 million dollars, were used, were assigned to the manuals from the funds of the previous Supreme Council? I'm saying that this cost, 130 million plus 87.5 million that were found by the government in the budget, is half the money that is needed for printing textbooks. The second half of the funds, and this was confirmed by all the heads of the district government administrations when they participated in the session, a special meeting of the government, would be allocated by district budgets. Thus, all the costs of free textbooks have been found. And I also want to add that it's very important that even though the publishers have won the contests, they're not even aware that they haven't worked and they're working on the textbooks yet. They print and in due course all the textbooks will be – new textbooks will be in schools. Of course, the delay is that the funds were found only in August. But free textbooks for all Ukrainian families will be available. I also emphasize that of all other subjects, this year was the time to print textbooks for the 4th and 7th classes. We are also fully equipped with textbooks for all other classes of the school. No one in school can ask their parents for money to buy textbooks. Because the state has completely provided for everyone. That's the first question. The second question concerns the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education? You know, there's an investigation going on right now that's being conducted by the IMF's Chief Investigation Authority, and also a special service investigation has been assigned by our government. And the National Deputies are concerned about what measures are being taken by the Ministry of Education to restore the normal work of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment? I must say that the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine cannot interfere with the investigation, we do not have such powers and we do not have investigative functions. But from the very beginning, we have commented accordingly on the fact that our system is reliable, that Igor Leonidovich Doctorchuk, who runs this center, is a professional and decent person, and we expect as soon as possible the end of the investigation. I'll say that we have an informal agreement that, over the next two weeks, the servers removed for investigation will be returned to us, and we'll be able to get ready for testing, to an external independent evaluation next year. So the situation is very dynamic. We keep in touch with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I also hope that the next government meeting will raise the issue of the results of the service investigation, and we will draw all the necessary conclusions, and the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education will work normally further. The next question concerns, in fact, the funding for the activities of the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment, because. And the question is, did the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine prepare and submit appropriate budgetary requests to the Ministry of Finance? And I say, of course, we asked these questions. And these questions apply to two parts. The first part is to make the center work, that's 109 thousand dollars, that's 12, that's almost 13 percent more than last year, but it's a lifetime. It's pay, it's utility, it's energy and so on. In addition, the question sounds very correct with regard to the updating of the technical base. And we're asking the question not only of updating the technical base, but of certain security systems that have never been spent on, because this technology and equipment that was purchased many years ago at grant costs, we can't even get the details right now, because this equipment is no longer being released, it's very outdated. That's why we're working with the Ministry of Finance. And we've made an additional cost demand, 133 million 334 thousand dollars, including, for the acquisition of appropriate licenses, keys, control modules, encryption and so on. Because one of the problems, and this is what we're going to be considering at a government meeting, is that this system had insufficient protection, but we've never spent any defense costs, because this system was created at grant costs at minimum-minimum needs, so only it could work. So this year the approach will be very solid, and the Ukrainian Center for Quality Assessment will be properly provided. But I emphasize that this system is reliable, it is. The introductory campaign was successful, without any problems, there were no complaints, particularly, and the provision was a government order. The entrance was unwavering, with one wave counting. For the first time, a system of priorities was activated that justified itself and so forth. The next question is: Is there enough public budget funding in 2015 for education subsidies in connection with rising public service tariffs, fuel prices, food prices, and so forth? I want to emphasize that we've done special calculations, and we're looking not only at education subsidies, but also at all the needs of education. Because, let's say the subsidy costs, they include funds that are not even distributed to those Donbass regions that are currently occupied, that's our small reserve. And, in principle, what we see, what problems we see today, is enough. But we also have, there's another problem, that we have questions from our areas, from our district budgets, from our district offices, and these are over 4 billion dollars. And our areas say there's not enough money, but we still don't understand what the cost is. So during the first three days of the next week, we're going to meet with our districts, we're going to invite representatives to our home, and we're going to see what the cost is and what it's not enough for. For example, there can be no cost of capital costs. And that's why this work is still going on, but, in principle, if we talk about the entire education budget at the end of the year, at the minimum that we have to finish, we're the costs, what we see is these costs are enough. The areas we're going to work on next week, and we're going to look at what they have in them, and they have to specify what they're going to ask us. Because we often have such a principle that let's ask for more and then how much will it take. The question is: Is the Ministry planning to review the accounting of educational subsidies in part of the change in the rate of enrolment of day-to-day general education schools located in rural areas and so forth? That is, the question of education subsidies and that segment of the problem of so-called small-scale schools. I want to emphasize that we don't plan to keep small-scale schools because they can't give any quality to students, and the cost of preparing for a year of one student in a small-scale school is over 50,000 dollars. It's not normal. So first of all, in every village, the smallest village is going to be saved from 1 to 5 classes, which is that the optimization of small schools does not apply to primary schools. And the senior school, the profile school, will be optimized, and we'll work in such a way that children can go to a larger school where there's adequate material and human resources. I want to emphasize that we have very fruitful cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, and for the following year, funds are already being planned for the purchase of offices: physics, chemistry, biology. So we're going to be updating the material and technical supply of schools that we couldn't afford last year. I need some more time. The problem in this case is not with the subsidy formula. Just as I'm often asked the question that we can't increase. Let's say it's very difficult for us to increase the academic load of teachers. The question isn't in the classroom, maybe our teachers want to have more exercise, the question is in pay. And if we see how much it goes to education as a percentage of GDP in Ukraine, that's the sum. More loyally, this percentage.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u6	Please, just a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u7	This is relative to American and German spending, the question is that we have little GDP. So that's not the problem. Next question. Professional. There's two questions about vocational and technical education, that's material and technical security, and that's training personnel in vocational education. All the changes we make to the law are a new bill on vocational education. He's fully prepared and agreed, and he's literally the next week we're going to bring him to Parliament, please support him, honourable colleagues, there's a major idea that all the weight, that's all the ability to make responsible decisions in the development of all the professions that are needed for a particular region, we're transferring him to the district level, this decentralization, it's created for the steakholders, it's the local government, it's the workers, it's the representatives of the educational institutions themselves, and it's all the decisions that the professions that we're going to develop, we're moving to the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u8	Please, just give me a minute and finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u9	Wait a minute. There are also questions about diplomas that have been delayed in the issuance of diplomas. There were no delays from the Ministry, this year a new system is in operation when higher education institutions and vocational education institutions themselves were able to print diplomas. Why was this done? To get diplomas, because we had one monopolist -- this is a private stock company -- the Scientific Research Institute of Applied Information Technologies, which was overpriced, and the price of diplomas now fell sometimes 10 times. But it was a new system. It's a new way of looking at it, and that's why there were some delays, it's no big deal, next year it won't be like that. And preschool schools. We're in. We've been doing a lot of work, especially taking changes to the Tax Code to encourage the opening of private preschools. And we're also working on other issues, especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u10	Please finish for one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u11	In particular, you need to change the sanitary and epidemiological conditions, so it's not possible, it's very difficult to open preschools. But I hope that in the near future, it's over the next month that we'll make appropriate changes and legislative changes, and those that require government decisions, and it'll be much easier to open kindergartens, and we'll provide them, because birth is growing, children are growing into gardens, and schools are going more. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few words before inviting the Minister of Infrastructure under Law 3008. Once again, I would like to emphasize to you that this law. Why am I aging for him today and aggrieved yesterday? Today is the last day of making a decision when these people who are present can simply hold free democratic elections. Make yourself known to the community, please! These are the organs of local self - government. These are all three associations of local governments. And I'll get up too. In fact, what we're doing after the decentralization of power, we're handing over powers to communities. I'm asking for your attention, your colleagues, and your mobilization. The bill is supported, as stated by all Ukrainian associations of local self - government, the public. The rehabilitation package of reforms also supports this law. The bill is a real decentralisation, which provides for the possibility of the voluntary declaration of more than 500 communities. So it's up to us to get 500,000 people to choose their power or not. Decision - making on the formation of united communities by communities themselves, which expressed their desire to unite. Therefore, it is vital that we today adopt this draft Law in general and be able to resolve it. That is why I call on everyone, regardless of the political flags, because in all communities, all political forces will be able to participate in the elections and choose the right to govern those communities. But it's a very important question of decentralization. They get twice as many budgets as they do since January 1, 16, and this is extremely important. That's why there's an offer, colleagues, a signal. 3008 is now included in the agenda for decision-making. And I would ask everyone to mobilize so that this decision can be made. Ready to support the community? Ready? Take your seats, my friends. Please take your seats. We're going to take all the questions to the government, and we're going to have the opportunity and the Prime Minister's speech. By the way, let's welcome Arsenius Petrovich, he's taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine together with the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers fully supports this decision, including. Friends, 3008 is an agenda for decision-making. The committee has passed, all the conclusions are on it. Please support 3008, Your Honor. Integrating into the order of the day and making an appropriate decision on this law today. Vote please, my friends, 3008. I'd like you all to support me, all of you. Please support, 3,088 enrollment in the agenda and decision-making. Vote! Please support your colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:37:34]] For 236 We're on, fellow officers. With your permission I'm then, it's so far we've included for, it's so far we've included for the vote. Can we vote? On the basis and in general? Wait, it's Ruslan Sidorovich, right? The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Jurik Taras Zinovovich. There is a suggestion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. Deputies, don't break up, please. Please don't split up. As a matter of fact, it's a short-term procedure. Thank you, colleagues, decision taken. [[10:38:23]] For 172 Please, Deputy Juric. Let's listen carefully, please. An extremely important question. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u13	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Act amending some of the legislation on the organization and holding of the first local councils and rural, rural, city heads. The development of this draft law is prompted by the need to ensure the realization of the violated right of about 500 territorial communities to voluntary associations. As a result of ignoring the responsibilities of individual district councils to consider the creation of united territorial communities and the announcement of the first elections. In the Ternopil region of 35 territorial communities, the Ternopil District Administration concluded, and with these conclusions, the Ternopil District Council was asked to support their initiative to unite. Sadly, they were not heard. We MPs should not allow restrictions on the rights of the community to become more capable, to gain authority, resources, and the ability of members of the community to create their own future where they live, to work, to raise their children, to care for their families. The aim of the project is to regulate the specific issues that have arisen in the process of forming and holding elections to eligible territorial communities. This is about the appointment of the first election of rural, rural and urban deputies by the Central Electoral Commission rather than by the District Council; the establishment of unified territorial communities in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk; the reconciliation during the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities procedures with the electoral process in the next local elections. The adoption of the law will allow the organization of the first elections of the united communities together with the 2015 local elections, which will save the public budget, to improve the procedures of the united territorial communities, taking into account the principles of reforming the local elections system. In view of the very tight terms, as well as the need for the economy of the state budget and the wishes of millions of Ukrainians, I ask you to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and in general. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u14	Please, from. Let's take a minute from the factions. No, Ruslan Knazevitch, please report to the committee. We need to hear that there was a committee sitting there yesterday, and there were some clarifications. Listen very carefully, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u15	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! I'd like to ask for a little bit more minutes for my report, because the point is, on the committee yesterday after faction leaders agreed to the final drafting of this bill, we agreed on the editorial that was introduced on behalf of the committee, and we're proposing it for consideration. It's a little different than the one on the website. So, Mr. Head, I think it would be right if I read this text under the transcript, so I'm asking for a slightly larger rule for me. The next piece of legislation, the legislative changes are proposed. Article 14. The name "See Local Elections and Orders of Their Assignment" (this is a change). Part six, as follows: "The first election of deputies, rural, village, city heads shall be appointed by the Central Election Commission in accordance with the order laid down in this law." Next. Article 24, "Approval of the Central Electoral Commission", is supplemented by paragraph 1 with the 1-prim badge. The following edition: "designates the first election of deputies, rural, rural, urban heads in the order defined by this law." The name of article 7 changes. The next edition is proposed. Article 7 “Preparing Decisions for Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities”. In part seven of the same 7 article is proposed. I'm asking you to give me a bigger rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u16	Please, five minutes. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u17	I just want to point out for the transcript that this is now about the 7th article of another law, the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. The seventh part of the 7th article is proposed in the following article. "In the event of the adoption by rural, rural, urban councils of decisions on voluntary unification of territorial communities, and in the case of the support of voluntary unification of territorial communities in the local referendum of the rural, rural, urban, territorial community head, in which the question of voluntary unification of territorial communities is initiated, shall be referred to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district public administration with an invitation to the Central Electoral Commission to make a decision on the appointment of the first election of deputies of the rural, rural, urban and rural councils in accordance with the law of the city." A new edition of the eighth part of the same article 7 of the Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities is proposed. The next point. "The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the District State Administration, shall, within 10 working days of obtaining a decision on the voluntary reunification of the territorial communities and if it conforms to the conclusion provided for in part four of this article, request the Central Electoral Commission to decide on the appointment of the first election of deputies of the rural, rural, urban and rural councils and the relevant rural, rural and urban head in accordance with the law. On such a request from the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district government simultaneously informs the ARC Crime Supreme Council, the appropriate district councils and relevant councils that have decided on the voluntary unification of the territorial community. Article 8 of the same law is proposed in the first part of the following edition: "The United Territorial Community shall be deemed to have been established under this law from the date on which decisions are taken by all councils that have decided on the voluntary unification of territorial communities or from the time decisions are taken to support the voluntary unification of territorial communities in the local referendum and provided that such decisions are consistent with the decision in the conclusion of the fourth part of article 7 of this Act." The numbering of articles is changed accordingly. The next part becomes the second part. The former second is deleted and accordingly the numbering corresponds to the valid third, fourth, fifth, sixth. The seventh part is proposed in a new edition. From the day the decisions of rural, rural, city councils on voluntary unification of territorial communities and in support of voluntary unification of territorial communities in the local referendum to the formation of local self - government bodies of the unified territorial community of alienation (coma), rental (in brackets) (use) (coma), bond (in parentheses) (in mortgage) (coma), leasing, concession, operational management of municipal property and unified communities were taken into account. And chapter III of the Final and Transitional Positions is proposed in a new edition. The first part of this chapter. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Part two. The Central Election Commission may appoint the first local election of rural, rural, city councils and the corresponding rural, rural, city heads on October 25, 2015. Such elections are held in order and within the time limits established by the Local Elections Act. Subparagraph one. The position of part four, sixth, seventh, of article 15, part one, part two, part four and part five, part two, article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections on the appointment of the first local elections, the announcement of the electoral process, the formation of the constituencies, and the deadlines for determining the size of the monetary pledge are not applicable. Second item, part two, Transitional Positions. The Central Election Commission, on the date of the appointment of the first local councils and village, village, city, decision-making, announces the start of the electoral process for the first election of such deputies to the local council of rural, rural, urban, and, if necessary, the number of territorial one-man election districts for the organization of the first elections and the size of the money freeze for the territorial ones. I'm sorry, for the corresponding multi-mandatory, single-mandatory constituency of the election of the city head and the immediate publication of such a decision on its website and informing the respective territorial election boards accordingly. And the last paragraph of part two of the Final Positions is suggested in the next line. The territorial election commission, in accordance with the Local Elections Act, forms one-maned constituencies in the order prescribed by the Local Elections Act, but no later than 35 days before the day of the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. This is the kind of editorial that I just sounded, which is supported by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u18	Support this option. Vote, colleagues? Porsches, take your seats. And then I'll give it to the factions after a minute's vote. Colleagues, write two for, two for against, that's going to be a complete match to the procedure. Please. Two for, two against, please sign in. Two for, two against. Colleagues, please invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, there will be two in favor and two in favour, and then we will move on to the vote of an important law. Please gather around. Please, Ruslan Demczak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u19	I give Barney my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u20	Oleg Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u21	Praise Jesus Christ! Deputies! Too bad, last night. Misunderstandings failed to pass this law. But I hope we'll all finally get our faces back to the village. Well, it's hard to say that many of us have a direct connection to the village, but if, you know, we moved from the Mercedes and the Meibachs into the village submarine, we'd be riding it on those roads, maybe we'd understand better. And it's not just taking, you know, taking a cow into the hall or waving it with the pitchforks, but if they were pouring it into one place, maybe it would be better. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, a village for many of us existed only for the election campaign and for the pierre, or to come to the first or last bell. So, I urge you to go back to the village face-to-face and make sure you finally start caring for the village, talking about the village, the brothers, respect the village, and respect the community's will, who decided to do themselves good and raise the village. Because if we don't have the intelligence to help the village a little bit, let's at least have the conscience to stay out of the village and raise Ukraine by ourselves. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u22	People's Deputy Amazanov, People's Front. From the People's Front, who? Please, Olena Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u23	Hand it over, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u24	Please. Just a minute, folks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u25	People's Front, Helen Boyko. The People's Front faction claims that it is unacceptable to block the bill 3008. The bill is designed to improve the process of uniting the territorial communities and to harmonize the procedures for holding the first elections with the 2015 local elections. The People's Front insists on the inherent right of communities to self-determination on issues of unification and stresses the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to promote local self-government. The unconstructive position of individual district councils, which, for formal reasons, and in fact for political reasons, ignore their obligation to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Communities, has led to a legal and legal coalition. 105 communities have decided to unify the applicable legislation and are willing to participate in the October 25 election process, instead of deciding on the last chain of overlays. The shameful practice of ignoring the territorial communities must be condemned and stopped — this is the main task of Bill No.3008. The territorial community is the foundation of local self-government. A united territorial community is a capable, self-sufficient society capable of social economic development. The People's Front faction urges all coalition partners, all national MPs, to support the bill. To protect local self - government, you have been chosen by the electorate, and they believe in you. Dear colleagues, we hope that the partners of the Fatherland faction who declare community support and advocate for rural development will not betray their constituents and change their position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Please continue with the People's Deputies. Come on, please, look better to do and less to talk. Friends, I'm asking for a minute, if possible, of Debenkov, if possible, invest in a minute of the national MP. Then there's the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u27	I give the word to Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u28	Please. And then Oleg Beresuk. In a minute, and let's vote better. We'll help people do their job. We still have to sign this law to get the President to sign it. And the "fatherland" word. Yeah, in a minute. Thank you. Vadim Yvchenko will be. Please, Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Now, you and this bill have already changed edition three in a day, and we're all going back to the same point. Article 7, paragraph 8. You made another new edition, not even the one you just showed me right there in the towers next to you. You have returned, in fact, through article 7, paragraph 4, the power of the Governor to decide for himself how the territorial community will be, because you have in no way restricted him in your conclusions, in your proposals. That if you restrict it and it does not prevent territorial communities from making decisions, it will be quite different. But for this to happen, it must be in the text of the Law. We can't vote like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that at another point, it is said that within three days the administration is simply adhering to a plan approved by the district council on uniting communities together with a decision on unification. That's it! And none of them have the right to stop that decision. It's just a beast, and it's perfectly normal. Someone's got to believe it, and it's better if it's whoever's in place. Administrations can't stop this process now and can't stop it. There are three days to conclude, and a dot. So I would ask my colleagues to support this decision. Please, Oleg Lazko, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! We're all talking, including local communities about decentralization. What is suggested by this law? On the contrary, the delegation of additional powers to the district administrations. The district administrations that have to be eliminated, we give them additional powers. We're talking about decentralization, but we're handing over the authority to the Central Electoral Commission. What Central Election Commission? As of June of last year, the Central Electoral Commission, which forged the election to order Yanukovich’s power, is now forging the election to order today’s power. So the next time I turn from this highest rostrum in the country to the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, to carry out his constitutional duty and to submit to Parliament the election of the new members of the Central Electoral Commission. The Radical Party faction more than a month ago, according to the law, made a proposal for a member of the Central Electoral Commission from our faction. We turn to other factions, including coalitions, to make proposals to the President, and to the President, without delay, to submit an application for the election of members of the Central Electoral Commission, not to reward them, as they do, according to Hendowski, being rewarded by the Order of Jaroslav the Wise instead of being held responsible for the falsification of the elections. And last but not least, Mr. Head, I demand that you immediately put to the vote in Parliament a bill on a special regime of special confiscation of property. There are voices in the hall, let's vote and let's return the property stolen by the Yanukovich gang to the state budget and return it to the Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u32	Please, Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland, one minute, then Oleg Berezuk, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Please mobilize, colleagues, this is a decision for the people, for the communities, not for us with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u33	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you and I have adopted the Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities. We have provided very clear structural things that must be for voluntary union. If today some district councils are unable to agree and make decisions, then let us make the elections in these district councils. No, we take with you the authority of all district councils, even those who have voted in favour of the prospects, we hand over the authority to the district government. With one hand and one hand with you for decentralization, the other we are voting for changes to the Constitution. Today, we receive the Prefects ’ Law, where the Prefect today receives from the local council a decision and takes three days to decide whether he allows that decision to come into force, whether he does not allow it, or what mistakes I make there. Colleagues, what do we do with land relations? You don't understand that money and authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u34	Thank you. Ten seconds -- finish, form a legal position. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u35	We are colleagues for the elections in these communities. First of all, we want to bring the law into order. We want a clear mandate of old age. Self-absorbed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen! Only communities have to decide whether to form it or not. And those communities that have made this decision have to choose their own power. And today, by voting for this law, we have to help them. But I'll tell you. I'm talking to you, everything the predecessors said here, they're telling the truth. Within two days, this law had many novelties and sensations, which were given with one hand, taken away by another. Together we have corrected this, and this law is now just for these communities to choose their power. Choose, work, and live!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u38	Yuri Lucenko. All deputies, please take your seats. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block. Take your places to vote, colleagues. Attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! There are laws by which I can be consolidated in the position of everyone who wants to change the country. That is why I condemn speeches including those of my colleagues who are now looking for enemies in the hall. I now urge, not in a word, but in a work of voting people to choose and form power, and not to let anyone limit them to their holy right. We said that all power would belong to the communities. Let's vote yes. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Colleagues, get ready? The draft Law 3008 has been introduced for your consideration. I'm asking everyone to calm down. Come in, take your seats. Colleagues, let us remember this moment. We are about to vote on this law regardless of political preferences, which will be absolutely positive. You'll see that it won't make any difference. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. 3008 as a whole, and we give communities the right to hold elections and choose their power. I ask all factions of Parliament and of the group, and of the people's deputies outside the faction to support this decision. 3008 on the basis and in general, please support. We vote, colleagues, 3008, we vote, as a basis and as a whole. Please support everyone, colleagues. [[11:01:52]] For 227 Look up, look up, friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable colleagues of the National Deputies, by factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 111 People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 18, Lachka's Party – 0, Father's Party – 6, Restoration Party – 3, Will of the People – 7, non-fractional – 15. Thank you to all national deputies for making the decision. The committee’s own legal regulations and techniques are sounding proposals. Thank you, Ruslan Knyazevich, from the committee. Please, colleagues, we continue to have an hour of questions to the government, and I invite you to the words of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. If you'll excuse me, please. It went so well, or are you still voting on the State Procurement Act? And we're going to make real government purchases unprofitable. Law 2087a, you've been looking at it, we've cleaned it up, we're finally going to make transparent and honest government purchases. Mr. Head, may I ask you to consider this matter for Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u42	Colleagues, he's in the day-to-day. Draft Law 2087a, there is a proposal made by the government to now consider this bill of Law 2087a. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues! Offer. 2087. Take your seats, national deputies! The question of purchase. Huh? Second Reading? Yeah? 2087a, distinguished colleagues. It's a purchase question. These are billions of budget savings. There's an offer to start now, 2087a. Sounded by the Prime Minister. Ready to vote? Ready? Please, colleagues, please support draft Law 2087a on second reading, the issue of public procurement. The question that this law will allow us to make purchases transparent, open, and it will enable us to save the budget accordingly. Ready to vote! Colleagues! Take your seats. 2087a. Review. Let's start the discussion, I'll give you my word. Please vote 2087a, start consideration, offer to the government. Start consideration of 2087a. Please start consideration of 2087a. Ready? Please be supportive. It's on, it's on somewhere. Vote, fellows! Start now at 2nd reading of 2087a. Please be supportive. It's an anti-corruption law, my friends. [[11:05:40]] For-200 Decision taken. Please, colleagues. 2087a, who's gonna report it? [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues! 2087a, please, second reading. He's on our schedule yesterday. Andrew Ivanchuk, please. We'll go after the repairs. There'll be a word. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bill 2087 is brought to your attention for the second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u44	Thank you for the report, Andry Volodymyrovich. So let's go through the revisions. First amendment. Yvchenko. Is Yvchenko insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u45	64 revisions, almost all counted. I propose to put the committee to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u46	Ichenko insists? Microphone, please turn on Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please take your seats again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Let's not break the rules, Vladimir Borisovich. There is no one against this law. You know, we're ready to vote. But there are "hours of questions to the government," there are remedies. Everyone has to make a statement on this matter. On the other hand, why this law? And the Tariffs Act, and the Wage Index, the Pensions, what's the "Paternity" faction? Why this and not that? So I insist, I insist on my right hand, which speaks of the following. I want to, and I suggest, I don't have the papers, but the editing says the following. To ensure that state enterprises and all enterprises are included in order, where there is a direct state share of ownership. So they can do the bidding and the bidding. It's for greater transparency of state enterprises. Because colossal funds are also being stolen from state enterprises. My amendment was rejected by the committee and I ask you to respond and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u49	I mean, colleagues, let's do it again. Let's rephrase. It was the Prime Minister's offer to begin the procedure, wasn't it? Start consideration of this matter. And are the deputies ready to consider it now? Not ready. Okay. Okay. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Please take your seats. Please have 30 minutes of questions to the government. Please sign up for the question. Please ask Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I have a question for the Justice Minister, Paul Petrenko, please. Bill 3025 was registered yesterday. Please give the official position of the Ministry of Justice and the Government on the basis that this bill complies with the rules of the Constitution and international law, particularly the conventions to which Ukraine has joined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u51	Thank you for asking me, my dear fellows. The honourable national MP named the number of the law, but he did not say that it was the law and what it was. This is about introducing a special confiscation regime in Ukraine to those who are actually involved in corruption and the Yanukovic regime. This is the question that society is actually looking forward to a decision of power over a year and a half. And because of the procedures that are in law, because these people are actually getting out of the investigation by hiding in the Russian Federation, they're trying to get the funds that belong to the Ukrainian people into the budget. We believe that this law should go through a full-blown procedure in Parliament. If there is Parliament’s will, it will be accepted in the first reading, the second reading being completed. Get the expertise of the relevant expert organizations and accept as soon as possible within the Rules. In order for our law enforcement authorities to be able to carry out a specific confiscation of these funds belonging to the Ukrainian people according to a law that meets European standards. The language goes at least for 30 billion dollars or 1.5 billion dollars that are now being arrested by the Ukrainian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u52	National Deputy Corchik Vitaly Andriyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u53	Please give my word to my colleague, Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u54	Dear friends, Igor Gus, 19th constituency. I have a question and an offer to the Ministry of Ecology. By the way, we need to pick a minister soon. The point is that in Volina today, there is a drought, but not only a significant avalanche of the lakes. What's happening to the world right now is a disaster. So Belarus is developing a famous Hotislav career that destroys all the Shacki Lakes. I'm asking you urgently, we need a commission to investigate this situation. This year’s world of spices is a few meters away. And this is not just because the drought is developing because the Hotislav career is being developed. I'm requesting immediate intervention from the Ministry of Ecology. Come on, let's work this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u55	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u56	On behalf of Minecology, I want to say that we know the problem. Our specialists are working on this issue, a working group will be set up. There is even reason to turn to the International Convention. on the violation by Belarus of this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u57	Please, Kuprienko, Artemenko, Radical Party. They're handing the word to Oleg Laszko, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u58	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, yesterday, derjkomstat published information that the unemployment rate in Ukraine is the highest in all years of independence. In particular, youth unemployment is more than 25 percent. I have to ask you, as Prime Minister and Head of Government, what the government is doing to overcome mass unemployment in Ukraine. Because we understand that no subsidies, no subsidies, no loans from the International Monetary Fund will help if we don't create jobs if we don't provide people with jobs and wages? And from that, I have another question for you, Mr. Prime Minister. For a long time, the Radical Party faction, and being in the coalition, and today, in opposition, we've been asking the government to raise the minimum wage and pensions, because today's minimum wage is 1218 dollars, and it hasn't been reviewed for the last 2 years, and let it feed on 1200 dollars whoever assigned it that minimum wage. That's why we're demanding an increase in minimum wage and pensions. We just heard your statement that you're raising the minimum wage by 150. We think that's definitely unacceptable. We demand an increase in the minimum wage of at least 3,000 dollars, and in order for employers to be able to pay this salary, we propose a radical reduction in taxes on the Wages Fund, namely the EUSR and the income tax of individuals. We demand that the government, we demand that the Parliamentary Coalition immediately submit to Parliament the Retirement and Retirement Act, a retirement tax for working pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u59	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u60	First of all, I would like to welcome all Members of Parliament and I would like to welcome the parliamentary coalition with what exists and with it continuing to work. In answer to Mr. Laska's questions, apart from the fact that you left the coalition as Prime Minister, I am grateful that you were in a state of parliamentary coalition and we have managed to do a great deal for the country together. You made this political decision, you were chosen by the people of Ukraine, I, as Prime Minister, respect any political decision you make. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, answering two questions, I would ask that we discuss at all how we will continue to work. Because the question of unemployment, the question of raising social standards, is primarily at the heart of the political will and unity of the parliamentary coalition. This means that several dozen bills, which are now in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and several dozen that have not been voted on in the last session, should be adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament. The Government of Ukraine has taken several steps that should be voted on in parliament's walls to stabilise the financial and economic situation in the state. And again, after a long, incredibly complex negotiation with creditors who own a large amount of Ukraine's debt, we managed to write down $4 billion, we managed to transfer four years of body loan payments, we managed not to increase the cost of government debt financing. Why am I now raising the question of debt write-offs and that this directly relates to population employment? This is one of the elements of sustained economic growth in Ukraine. With the incredible debts that were accumulated by previous governments and the basis of their own, this is Victor Yanukovic's 40 billion-dollar regime, we were unable to stabilize the economy. Let me remind you that the total amount of payments per interest that Ukraine owes to our debts is equal to the amount that we finance over the year for the entire National Security and Defence System. And so the first step is debt write-off, the second step is that we're doing large-scale tax reform. The first stage of tax reform was conducted, which reduced the number of taxes that introduced the new system of payment of the only social contribution as an experiment involving the introduction of transfer pricing, which increased taxes on the most oligarchy types of business. Under which the State Fiscal Service conducts full reform and creates conditions for the entrepreneur to work. By which accounting and tax standards are approximated. The system of administration of the added value tax, and in August only 2.5 billion dollars, is an additional cost that has been paid to the government budget and which corruption has not been able to remove from the state budget system of Ukraine. At the second stage of our tax reform, the goal of which is to create jobs, the government does not create jobs -- the government creates conditions. The government must do everything to ensure that there is no corruption and this is a task, including that of Parliament, to radically change the judicial system and all the judges. Combating corruption in law enforcement agencies and prosecutors. The government should ensure that all taxpayers are equal, fair and stable in the tax system. So our second element is, of course, the second stage of the tax system and, along with the parliamentary coalition, yesterday at the National Reform Council, we discussed it. Third. The third is finding new markets for Ukrainian products. That's why, expecting the Russian Federation to close our markets on January 1st next year, we have an office of a trade representative and a signed Free Trade Zone with countries members of the European Union, and an agreed and signed Free Trade Zone with Canada. Negotiations are now continuing on the signing of a free trade zone with Israel and other countries. I mean, the third stage is new markets for Ukrainian products. Four. By social standards, the country's government has taken a decision and I hope that Parliament supports the decision to raise social standards. This is an increase in salaries, pensions, and other social benefits. In the next plenary week, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, I request you to vote in favour of the amendments to the National Budget Act on wage increases, pensions and other social benefits. Ukraine's Law on debt write-off and restructuring, which is directly linked to this, and to vote on several dozen bills that directly relate to the country's economic life. Including the fact that I've just asked you to vote in favour of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. Unfortunately, not all members of Parliament supported that decision. Each day of delay in adopting this law means that government procurement will continue to contain shadow schemes and corruption, which state purchases will continue to block through the Antimonopoly Committee, that government purchases remain part of corruption that deprive citizens of their jobs, deprive the country of additional financial resources. That is why I am addressing the need for us to exercise political will. And I'm talking to the political forces that are present here in the walls of Parliament that will participate in the local elections does not cost an additional village head or another two or three dozen deputies of district or rural councils to put the country's fate on the line. Please engage in political agitation. Every political power and political party has the right to represent its ideology, everyone has the right to move into opposition to power, do not move into opposition to Ukraine and support reforms in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the Prime Minister's speech, we have heard that there are plans for the government to give a certain package of laws. But I would like Arsenija Petrovich to address the ministers in your presence, and ask respectable colleagues, ministers, the following: we have a Friday today, the Ukrainian Parliament will not make a decision today, we need time for all factions and committees to work out decisions, to see the quality of the laws and then vote on them. So I urge that on Monday, no later than then, we get a list of these laws, we immediately. Which will be officially sent to the Ukrainian Parliament and they will be processed in committees and factions on the next non-plenary week, and we will be able to look at them systematically on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays of next plenary Sunday in order to make appropriate positive decisions. I would ask you to have every law you provide accompanied by committees and factions. This is a guarantee that he will be properly approved. And one more thing: we have to take into account that we're in the week, so practice shows, we have 40-45 laws that we're adopting. So please work ahead of schedule. I'd very much like to ask you to do that, understand. Now we've sent out a new approach to the order of the day, where everything is supposed to be happening early. I would like to thank you for your understanding, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, for your offer. We have a constitutional parliamentary-presidential form of government. So what the Parliament said and what the speaker said is essential for everyone. So your proposal has already been made. On 21.08, two bills were sent to Parliament, which needed to be adopted, which included the continuation of systemic reforms in the sphere of economics, government finances, public procurement, privatization, by the way. I want to point out once again that the public sector of the economy, which remains corrupt, needs to be sold publicly. Leave only strategic objects. Get the state companies out of the political trade. Only strategic companies should remain state property. Everything else is transparent privatization, a social package for workers, a new system of governance and investment in the country. That's why the bills are sent, they're there. Now let's report how much. 70 prime drafts. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I ask Parliament to support them. And separately, we sent in a visa-free mode. The mission, by the way, is now operating on a visa-free regime. I would like to inform members of Parliament that, in principle, despite all the difficulties that we have, because there are significant technical and financial difficulties, but the basic issues of the visa-free regime we are conducting, giving clear answers and now the mission of the European Union is working very actively. And I look forward to an interim report from the European Union mission on the introduction of a visa-free regime. But there are a number of laws that have already been sent to Parliament that need to be voted on, because the final report will be by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Those who have been registered in Parliament since 21.08 are already in the work of the members of the Supreme Council. I was referring to these new social standards laws, the indexation of pensions, wages, I was referring to them. And please generalize the proposals, let the Minister of the Cabinet, Arsenija Petrovich, generalize the proposals that have already been made, which we need to consider first so that we can work together on a quality agenda. I would very much like to do that, because 70 laws are obviously the first and the second. For example, a visa-free regime should be made immediately, and indexes should be made and decisions made. Sorry. said the Prime Minister, they should probably be taken first. I would appreciate such an interaction. Please, Your Honor, we have 13 minutes left to ask you, Pavelenko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Sergey Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u67	Please, Sergey Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u68	Sergey Dunaev, Opposition Block. I have a question for Vladimir Vasilevich Demchikin. Vladimir Vasiljevic, the energy sector, adheres to the fundamental principles of industry development strategy, energy balance, resource payments. As representatives of the Opposition Block, we met in the canoe of the miner's Day 28 with representatives of the labour force of the State-owned Lysicansk-Ugl in a mine called Kaputina. With representatives of the labour community and, inter alia, with the union movement, the development of the sector as a whole, wages and, of course, the leader of Lisicanski suffered. the Kaputina mine. The head of Lysican Coal, Tirosipov, made an excuse and then suggested that this should be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u69	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u70	As head of the Ministry of Energy, the coal industry, we will draw attention to this fact and, for our part, we will address the prosecution. Please testify to this fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u71	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u72	Mr. Dunayev, thank you so much for your information. I will definitely check it out. I don't have any information today that any of the directors of the Kaputzin mine or the Lysicangugil mine have made any decisions on employment. I'm sure I'll check it out. I am convinced that there could not be such a situation if the director of a state enterprise demanded that his colleague be released only on political terms. So I want to assure you that either it's a professional decision or a proposal, but in any case, I will inform you in writing about your request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u74	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Sergio Hlan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u75	Sergey Hlan, 185 constituency, Peter Dusty Block. I have a question for Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Demšin Vladimir Vasilovich. Your ministry offers a subsidy price of 1,375 dollars for coal. When I traveled all over the county, I could not see at any coal warehouse such as this, and the price went up to nearly 4,000 dollars. I have a question about whether to change the cost of calculating subsidies or to provide coal warehouses throughout the country for 1,375 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u76	Mr. Chlan, thank you so much for asking. It's actually a very topical topic. He received several requests, especially in the eastern and southern regions, and in the Odessa region, in the Hersonian region, which were not fully supplied with gas, ungasified, which produced heat from coal. There is indeed a security problem. Why? Because the local authorities have destroyed the coal distribution network over a long period of time, so there are a lot of traders working in this direction that are very often not economically sound in terms of prices. But on the side of the Ministry, we are fully prepared to provide coal. So a week ago, I asked the management to provide detailed information on who could be a counterparty in places so that we could supply them with the coal they needed. That's the first one. Secondly, with the Ministry of Social Development, we have already discussed this issue. Coal compensation of 1,300 dollars is not associated with quality. And at the moment, the actual price at which large producers of electricity are buying coal in industrial volumes is at the level of 1,300 dollars of VAT. But the quality of this coal differs significantly from the coal that consumers buy, the consumer buys high - quality coal varieties, and only from quality indicators should its cost be 50 - 60 percent higher, that is, the real market price of this coal is about 1,600 - 1,800 dollars, but in any case it is not 4,000. So, as I said in the previous part, from the point of view of donations or payments to Minsoc, we're going to review this policy, and I'm convinced that we're going to increase the cost of compensation for supplies in the region that need this coal, we're ready to do it on behalf of a state enterprise, which is enough to be available, we need information. I am convinced that this question can be resolved in the near future, in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u77	Please, National Deputy Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u78	Good afternoon! A radical faction. The Radical Party faction, Oksana Korchinska. Question to the Prime Minister. Dear Arsen Petrovich! In May the 57 national deputies of the then coalition asked you to investigate the abuse and inviolability of the Ministry of Health. To that end, you organized an interdepartmental commission at the National Service Agency. The commission worked for several months. As a result of the Commission’s findings, a percentage of all the allegations of abuse and inadequacy of the work of the Ministry of Health were confirmed. In college then you stated that if the situation did not improve within 3 months, you would say that the personnel decisions would be very adequate. It's been over three months. At present, no vial of drugs from 19 government programs has been purchased for millions of seriously ill Ukrainians. Oncological children, like five years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u79	Please, 10 seconds, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u80	Oncological children, like their parents all over the country many years ago, are collecting money for extremely valuable medicines. Hemodialysis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u81	Please finish. Please. It's a very important subject, 20 more seconds. Finish up, please. Talk to me. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u82	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to explain now. Why are you protecting the work of the insolent Ministry of Health, which has resulted in the suffering of millions of sick Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u83	Dear Lady People's Deputy! A comprehensive audit of the Ministry of Health was carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian government’s authority. Moreover, Ukraine’s national deputies were involved in this complex inspection. Current legislation provides for the need for a griffin called "For the Service Use" to be applied to the materials of the service check. However, as Prime Minister of Ukraine, I have decided to remove the "For Service Use" clause and to hold a public meeting on the issue of the act of official review at the Ministry of Health. The country’s national deputies were also invited, and the Ministry of Health personally reported. A public hearing of this report took place last week. The materials of the service check came to the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I told you three months ago, and once again, after a public hearing, after a public hearing, after the entire country saw where there was abuse, where there was no abuse, the Cabinet of Ministers would make all the personnel decisions regarding the administration of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. With regard to the Ukrainian Minister of Health, it is the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Constitution, it is the Ukrainian Parliament that decides whether to appoint or release a minister. The same was true of me in the Ukrainian State Service. Two days ago, investigations were completed regarding the Ukrainian State Service. It had the same "Mystery" on it. This morning, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine withdrew the Count "Temno" from this investigation. And the government will consider separately the matter as well as the Ministry of Health, the offences committed in the State Service. The government will make appropriate personnel decisions. As was the case when we made decisions regarding the conduct of investigations, it was clear that those responsible would be punished. And this punishment will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last question. Moses, Igor Masijchuk, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u85	Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk. I have two short questions to Mr. Demchikin's Minister of Energy about the situation that took place at the Czernigovtorf State Enterprise, where the Lugansk firm practically captured him, became a foundation. There's a tender going on. It's not a tender, it's a competition for a director who's taking part in a former civil fund manager, the Kremlin Strategy. Please pay attention. And the question to Mr. Petrenko's minister of justice. Please tell us what the director of the penitentiary service is doing when he appoints district officials to execute the sentences of the outposts of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions who have been under occupation for a year. For example, the U.S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u86	It's about Chernigovtorf. You've already said that there's a public selection contest going on right now. Sadly, I do not remember the date, but it will be exactly during September. And at this point, the candidates have already submitted their papers. Since this is a public open competition, we cannot stifle or prevent anyone from participating in this competition. But the final candidate will definitely meet not only the highest standards professionally but also human qualities. So if there are any observations on the history of his activities, please provide information, and the competition commission will clearly take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u87	Thank you, Your Honor, time for "the hour of questioning to the government" is over. We're moving on to now. And yet, to the Minister of Justice, the double question was. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. It's a very short answer. Under current legislation, the director of the central executive body has sufficient competence to determine its personnel decisions at the level of the managers of the respective departments. But the situation with Zitomir is that there was a former head of the Lugani Penitentiary Service, I know. I'm not going to comment on his work today. So if there is a violation, you can give information. But I can say that this person really showed heroism in Lugansk, because he managed to get out of the ATO actually two women's colonies of women, where, risking their lives because he was in charge of this operation, he was able to bring over a few hundred women into our territory. He was able to get some of the people out of Lugani S.I.A. in the last days when there was such a possibility. In principle, therefore, there is nothing to judge him for the actions he did there. But the position is very clear. We are open to the task of controlling the work of executive bodies. And so every person, even if he has made some heroic concessions during a war in the East, should be held accountable if he has such a violation. If there are no such violations, I see no reason to believe that a person worked in Lugansk or Donetsk or worked. Many patriots who did not want to stay moved here, losing their homes, all their possessions, and are now working in an area controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time set by the Rules for the "hour of questions to the Government" is over. And we thank the government for the answers, thank the Prime Minister and the ministers. And let's move on to the state-of-the-art question. I give the floor to Vice Speaker Oksani Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u90	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Let's move on to the query reading. People's MPs have been asked: Stanislaw Berezhkin as deputy minister of ecology and natural resources for Ukraine on the complex ecological situation that took place with the Ingul River in Kirovograd. Natalia Wessellova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, concerning the National Museum of History of Ukraine. Zlati Ogneevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the continuation of the contract for the rental of creative craftsmen to members of the National Association of Ukrainian Artists. Alexander Suprunka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for information on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Real Estate in a Multi-Apartment House. Alexander Suprunka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the development of the anticorruption program in Kiev Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of budget expenditure under the general fund set out in the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015, for the border region of Suma. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 3 August 2015 No. 543 on certain issues of the use of state capital expenditure in 2015 with a view to paying off the creditors' debt to the district budget of the Suma Region. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the solution of problems with the issue of the issuing of a child - disability certificate by the Social Protection Authority of the city of Novi Bug Mikolai district. Artema Vitek to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the criminalization of the first and second Presidents of Ukraine Leonid Krawczuk and Leonid Kuchma for the loss of nuclear weapons. Lilia Greenevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the threat of conducting an external independent evaluation in 2016. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the critical situation at the State Enterprise Crevice Mining-enriching combination of oxidized ores in connection with underfunding and the lack of a state-owned approach to strategic development of the enterprise. Sergey Larina to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the Forced Union of Territorial Communities in the region of Kyrovograd. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of debt repayment on salary and social contributions to former colleagues of the geological intelligence expedition No. 37 of the Kyivgeology Criminal Enterprise of the State Geology Service and the Ukrainian Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. John Sporish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the request of the deputies of the Tomaspil District Council of the Vinicki Region for a review of housing and utility tariffs for the population. Vladimir Litvin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reorganization of the Zitomir district television company. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the initiation of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on changes in the organization of the use of funds provided for in the State budget for comprehensive health care and treatment of cancers using high-value medical technologies for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the initiation of amendments to article 89, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Budget Code for the financing of health care facilities of a special type (city and district pathological anatomical bureau) at the expense of a medical subsidy. Sergey Chlanya to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the repayment of creditors' debt from payments of subsidies to the population in the Novotroitsky region of the Hersonian region. Sergey Chlana to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the prevention of a possible technological disaster and the resolution of the gas supply problem in the fall-winter region of the Herson region. Victoria Vojcitsky to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Odeski Przystódně, the executive director of the Public Shareholders Association Centrenergo, on the procedure for the selection of gas suppliers and price offers. Victoria Vojtsicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the non-payment of taxes to the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrnafta". Alexander Revega to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the enforcement of the decision of the Popilnian District Court of the Zitomir Region on debt collection. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the multi-year extension of executive conduct from the decisions of the Popilnian District Court of the Zitomir Region on debt collection. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the creation of a national programme to ensure the calculation of centralized water supply and water management of socially vulnerable population groups. Anatolia Denisenka to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on the Regulation of Prices for Food and Commodities in Separate Trade Networks. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of the Hmelnick district government regarding the need for capital repairs at the Galchinsky School of the Hmelni district of Theopoli. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State control over the availability of prices for human products and medicines. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of abuses related to the purposeless use of public funds allocated to the implementation of the Ukrainian Book State Program and the involvement of officials of the State Committee in legal responsibility. Igora Lucenka to the head of the Court of Auditors for the cessation of violations related to the purposeless use of state funds allocated to the implementation of the Ukrainian Book State Programme. Valentina Didić to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the tragic events that resulted in the deaths of the inhabitants of Marganza Dnipropetrovsk district of Kolesnik, and the improper performance of duties by police officers in the city of Marganza Konovalenko, Pisarenko, and others regarding the investigation of the tragedy. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory quality of water in the Kirovograd region, the provision of constitutional rights for citizens in the city of Kirovograd and the Kirovograd region for safe living and environmental health, the provision of quality drinking water for citizens, and the verification of the inaction of control and control authorities. Alexia Lensky to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the verification of road accidents in Kirovograd, reporting on the targeted use of the funds provided in the form of excise collection and the cost-added tax on petrol and repair of road cover work in Kirovograd in 2014-2015. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the promotion of a spinal implant for operation Annie Golovnuk, 2002 born, residents of the village of Novi Lyubar, Lubar district, Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the promotion of synthetic coverage for sportsmen in the territory of the Pechaniv Public Education School I-III graduated from the Romanov Region, the Žitomir Region. Fedor Negoya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the release of Andrija Putilov, Head of the Herson State Administration, in connection with the organization of his system of defeats on the Black Sea coast and damage to Ukraine's security. John Krulk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on information about volunteering for volunteers who have suffered as a result of their activities in providing volunteer assistance in the area of anti-terrorist operations, hostilities, and armed conflict. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Project Planning for the State Budget for 2016. John Rybak to the head of the Chernobyl District State Administration for the restoration of the proper financing of the preschool system of the Putil district of Chernivecki region. Vladislav Doub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the purpose of verifying the use of funds for capital and foreclosure work on the roads of the city of Caneva Cherkas region. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the release from the state budget reserve of 18 million dollars for the work of eliminating the consequences of an emergency in connection with the fire in the "Cherka district music and drama theatre of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk". Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in connection with the unsatisfying consideration of the MP's appeal to the Chief Doctor of the State Institute of the Illilitian Swimming Hospital on Water Transport of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the provision of information on coal purchases in the Russian Federation. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to implement the Ukrainian Emergency Health Care Act and the National Impartial Assistance Project. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the construction of the land area, which is in municipal property and is intended for the operation and maintenance of the complex of buildings, and for the construction of a sanitary type at the address: Odessa, Fontanska Road Street, 58. Irina Heraszczenko to the head of the High Council of Justice for information on the involvement of representatives of the judicial branch. Andrea Levus, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to organize the implementation of the Ukrainian National Security Strategy. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the gasification of the village of Burkovci in the region of the Tetij region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal liability of those responsible for environmental pollution in Uzin and surrounding areas that are at risk to the lives and health of local residents. Vitalia Kupria to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Investigation of Intervention into the Court of Appeal of Kyiva Prashenka Petra Aleksiyovich and Filatova Alexija Valeriyovich, and the Indictment of Criminal Responsibility. Gregory Times to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Heads of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Private Bank Commercial Bank of Ukraine on the illegal seizure of funds from the card account. Mr. Doveb to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the use of urgent measures to verify the excesses of official authority, the abuse of office, the dispossessing of budgetary resources in particular by officials of the executive authorities and the local self-government of the Odessa District, the possible coverage, the avoidance of criminal liability by officials of law enforcement authorities and prosecutors, the use of appropriate measures to address numerous violations of current legislation, the violation of criminal cases and the prosecution of those responsible. Mr. Dmitra Špenov and Mr. Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Dmitra Špenov and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, according to the findings of the National Agency for State Service on the results of the service investigation. Dmitra Kolesnikov and Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of proper regulation in the field of hazardous substances and wastes. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Administration, deputy of the Kiev City Council, first deputy prosecutor of Kiev City Council, director of the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kiev City State Administration for information on the application of measures to protect the rights of members of the territorial community of Kiev by amending the draft general development plan of Kiev and its suburban zone by 2025. Andrija Illenka to the head of Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Ministry of Interior in Kiev, Chief of Police of Kyiv City, Head of Dniprovsky District in Kiev, State Administration on the use of measures to protect the rights of residents of the Rajdowiny District of Kiev, in connection with the establishment of the Society with a limited responsibility "Centre of Adictology of Medicine" near residential buildings. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the order of payment to military personnel for the execution of war orders in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the retransmission of the Ukrainian channel in the media area of Kazakhstan. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Service Investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Alexander Billowol to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deterioration of the economic situation and the deterioration of the standard of living of veterans, pensioners, children of war. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to take comprehensive measures to stop the illegal activity of persons who are trying to prevent the conduct of the All-U.S. Action for Peace and Development! in the Gitomir region. Jury Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on criminal conduct regarding minor Alexi Logwine. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Poltavsk region for the investigation of criminal offences resulting from the commission of bodily injuries of medium severity. Igor Popov to the head of the Zitomir district council for not allowing the transfer of the community centre "The Zitomir district center of blood" under the actual control of the Cyprus company. Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the purpose of continuing to serve as Head of the "Lvivoblaudor" Jaroslav Richter. Vladislav Atroshenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine for the financing of buildings, reconstruction, capital and current repairs of roads of general use at the expense of the funds involved in Ukraine's Ukraine in previous years under State guarantees. Vladislav Atroshenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, on the settlement of the creditor's debt for work on the road to the general use of the Chernigow region. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for clarification of the existence of grounds for receiving benefits for family members of the deceased party to the hostilities. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the issue of the cost of gas supply and gas supply to citizens. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Bank "Finances and Credit" for the return of Natalia Mamchure's bank contribution (deposit). Alexander Dombrovski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Vinnitsk Region, First Deputy Director of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region, Director of the State Enterprise "Vinnitsky Aviation Plant" for the execution of the decision of the court, which gained the legal power to pay Alexander Vituk's average salary during the delay of the discharge settlement. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the elimination of the network of institutions for postgraduate pedagogical education and contradictions in the current legislation. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening fire protection and responsibility for arson. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on Information Policy in the ATO - Release of the Weekly Printed Edition. Gregory Times to the director of the Department of Education and Science, youth and sports of the Montenegrin District Administration for the suspension of decisions on the closure of three small-scale institutions, such as Bilopotice, Lunkovsky, and Tabunów Schools of the Czerniewec Region. Yaroslava Moskalenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the delay in criminal investigation by the Kiev-Svetoshin Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region. Anton Heraszczenko to the head of the Court of Auditors for the conduct of non-planned action. Sergio Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on disregarding the Government's legislative requirements in the area of public procurement and its selective application. Sergey Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the enforcement of court decisions on the payment of "children of war" to the Church of guaranteed pension allowances of 30 per cent. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the activities carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian law on the moratorium on the removal of green plantings on individual objects by green farming in Kiev. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Road Service in Kharkiv Region on the unsatisfying state of the road by connection with Kharkiv-Izum. Roman Semenha to the head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the step-by-step provision of means of accounting for the consumption of residential and utility services of low-income and tax-type populations. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the recognition of a legal person missing from its location. Oksana Sold to the Head of the State Fiscal Service to assess the effectiveness of the implementation of the electronic administration system Added value tax. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, Prosecutor of the Plain region on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian law in order to prevent the work of the district newspaper "Polyssie" in the region of Ravens region by trying to change the essential working conditions of the editor-in-chief and evicting the office from rented premises and bringing to the responsibility of officials of the Annual District State Administration who are illegally involved in the work of the print media. Jury Derevyanka to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the provision of sanctions information that was applied during 2014-2015 to the Russian Federation, as well as to legal and natural persons who are directly or indirectly linked to the aggressor State. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the involvement of individuals in tragic events under the Supreme Council on 31 August 2015. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the organization of compliance with the requirements of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for information on the introduction of government energy efficiency and energy conservation programmes in rural areas. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Volodymyr Gursky, who is suffering from the first category of Chernobyl disaster, the disabled second group for the disease associated with the Chernobyl disaster, the veteran of the war on the integrated settlement of pension payments and the execution of the relevant court decision, and the provision of possible medical and social assistance. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Larissa Larcheenko to renew her constitutional right to housing. Ivan Melniczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on providing information on the number of State awards awarded to pro-Russian and pro-Separatian cultural leaders and related benefits. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for enabling citizens who receive minimum wage and/or pension to receive credit for the implementation of energy-efficient measures. Ruslan Solvar and John Melniczuk, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, on the urgent use of measures to pay money on the basis of legal decisions on behalf of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of the Poltava City Head Mamay Alexander Fedorovich and the purposeless use of the city budget. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Verification of the Reasonability and Legality of the Decision of the Poltava Territorial Authority of the Antimonopoly Committee, July 3, 2012, issue 02/86. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "Equineoblanergo" for the provision of electricity in the village of Antonovka Volodymyrecki district of the Plain region. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine regarding the provision of information to the family of the deceased soldier Igor Boris regarding the circumstances of his death in the area of conducting the Anti-Terrorism Operation. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the restoration of specialised auctions from the implementation of compressed gas for the needs of the population. Alexander Dehtirczuk and Taras Batenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of new textbooks for the 4th and 7th classes of the properly approved program of the Ministry of Education. Vladimir Parasuka, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the provision of information on surveys conducted by the Central Operational Office of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Dr. Coucher to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, on the most horrendous state of the road. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the use of measures to respond to the misuse of local self - government and executive power in Kyiv’s municipal property, which leads to the inability of children’s preschool facilities for the vast majority of Kiev’s families. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine in extraordinary situations, deputy minister of ecology and natural resources of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the elimination of the causes of pollution, immediate preventive measures and information to the population on the environmental safety of the inhabitants of Kiev and other cities of Ukraine. People’s Deputies (Parasjuka, Solvara and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine to provide information on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power. Irina Suslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the execution of justice by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Oksana Igorovna Kraljevic. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conditions for the selection of local prosecutors, their first interlocutors and deputies. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the terms of the competition to replace the office of the Prosecutor of the local prosecutor. Robert Gorvato to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the results of the project "Children and Sports Areas" and prospects for the development of children's and sports playground infrastructure in Ukraine. We finished reading the MP's questions. I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare themselves for the various performances. In accordance with the regulations, I declare a recess until 12.35.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the recording in "Virgin". I'd like you to sign up for the various shows. Please, the people’s deputies Moseschuk, Rybalka, and Lensky gave the floor to the national deputy Lyashko. Rules - 9 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaška, unanimously announced its exit from the parliamentary-government coalition in connection with the anti-Ukrainian betrayal in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the top of the Ukrainian authorities. On August 31, 2015, the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism will be another black date of the calendar. With its cynical and irresponsible actions, the President, along with the factions of his name block and the People's Front, has buried in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a democratic coalition on which millions of Ukrainian citizens hoped. This black day ended in a bloody tragedy under the walls of Parliament, a planned cynical provocation of the security forces that resulted in the deaths of three Ukrainian military personnel. The purpose of the organizers of the bloody tragic event, which affected more than 100 law enforcement officers and peaceful protestors, was to discredit the patriotic political forces that did not vote in favour of the changes to the Constitution written in the Kremlin, as well as to compromise the national opposition to the rape of the Constitution of Ukraine and the special status of Donbas. The purpose of the organizers of the bloody provocation was also to distract the attention of the Ukrainian society from the national betrayal that took place on August 31, 2015, in the Supreme Council. On this tragic day for the country, the conspiracies of the factions of the President and the Prime Minister with the fifth column of the road and the representatives of the oligarchic clans in Parliament were previously approved by the anti - Ukrainian changes to the Constitution, for which only 189 members of the factions of the democratic coalition voted. Three of the five factions of the coalition voted almost in full against the forced external constitutional changes of the times, aimed at the separation of Ukraine and the removal of its sovereignty. This vote for a treaty of foreign interests marked the creation of a de facto in the Ukrainian Parliament of a new "broad" with regionals and oligarchs of a non-democratic, non-Ukrainian majority. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska, stated that it was impossible to remain in a fictitious coalition, which was virtually destroyed by President Prashenko and Chief of the Supreme Council of Groysman, who, contrary to the positions of most factions of the coalition, put the issue of anti-Ukrainian change to the Constitution at an early session of Parliament. As a result, three were killed and more than 100 innocent people were injured by the custom - ordered cynical provocation in front of Parliament. And today, when the authorities promise to investigate this bloody crime and punish those who organized the tragedy under the Supreme Council. We've been reminding you of impunity for over a year and a half for those responsible for the Mayday murders of hundreds of our brothers. Because those responsible for this bloody crime are now sitting in Parliament under the MP's mandate, and instead of being punished, they actually get the opportunity to create a new "wide" with power and prepare for a future rematch. The "Radical Party of Oleg Láska" considers it impossible to remain in a helpless coalition, unable to protect Parliamentarianism in Ukraine from new authoritarianism, President Dustenka's repeated attempts to break the Supreme Council through knee, overthrow the representative authority and oppose the external constitutional changes developed outside it. And the grenade that was thrown under the walls of the Supreme Council was thrown not only at the National Guards, but under the democratic coalition in parliament, under the future of Ukraine. Those who organized this bloody cynical provocation knew what they were doing, undermined the Ukrainian Parliament, tried to discredit the patriotic forces by continuing to make anti - Ukrainian, Kremlin changes to the Constitution and to destroy the state. The "Radical Party of Oleg Laska" thinks it is impossible to stay in a coalition that is unable to implement the values of Maidan, for a real, not a declarative fight against corruption, for real reforms and for economic policies for the benefit of millions of citizens, for radical delligarization, for raising the standard of living of people and for solving social problems. In a coalition that actually creates an opportunity for Yanukovich’s gang to rekindle. After the elections, we became jointly responsible for reforms in Ukraine under the democratic coalition because we were and remain convinced that no ratings are worth Ukraine's future. Despite the political situation, we continued to be in the coalition until the last, insisting on real change in Ukraine. Instead, we have seen, instead of reforming people's interests, the struggle for redistribution of property and assets, the dictatorships of international creditors and the disastrous poverty and poverty of millions of citizens. Instead of delligarchization, some oligarchs are raised at the expense of others. Instead of changing to the Constitution on real decentralization and giving real powers to local communities to create preconditions for the usurpation of power by the President and changes dictated by the Kremlin. We see a policy of power that actually leads to the destruction of Ukraine, so we are not allies, we are opponents of such policies. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaška, has officially declared her transition to the current power and course of the President, the government and the actual majority of the Supreme Council. As a European political power, our faction is recalling its three national deputies from the heads of the parliamentary committees received within the coalition. And the representative of the faction in the coalition government, Valery Vashchevsky, is in office as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. No office in Parliament or government will make us neglect our values and principles. As a responsible political force, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška will not sanctify anti - Ukrainian treason in parliament. At the same time, we will continue in all available ways to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, to support the strengthening of the country's security and to build an army, to contribute fully to real reforms in Ukraine in the interests of the people. We require the authorities to introduce, according to part two, article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine moratoriums on changes to the Constitution until the cessation of armed aggression by Russia. To make constitutional changes to decentralization and to hold a referendum on Donbas' special status. We believe that sales and cowardly politicians who, under pressure, under threat or bribery, vote in favour of changes to the Constitution have no right to do so. Only the Ukrainian people, as the only source of authority, have the right to determine which country to live in, how to distribute power, who to whom to have status. We ask the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to bring the issue of amendments to the Constitution to the national debate and to hold a referendum on the special status of Donbas along with the local elections in late October. We strongly condemn the use of violence in Parliament during peaceful protests. And we demand that the President and the law enforcement agencies find not only the perpetrators of the attack, but also the organizers and the instigators, the cynical, anti-Ukrainian provocation that caused this bloody tragedy. The faction of the "Radical Party of Oleg Lachka" demands that President Prashenko strongly reject the disgraceful Minsk agreements, such as illegal, anti-constitutional and those which are legally worthless in view of international law. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u93	People's deputy Kirichenko, passes the word Lášku, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u94	We insist on the need to strengthen Ukraine's international negotiating positions by returning to the Geneva format with the participation of the United States and the EU and extending it to all the signatories to the Budapest Memorandum. And the requirement to apply all possible measures: political, economic and military in order to ensure that the entire security guarantee package and the commitment to the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding by all signatory States, including Russia, is respected. We demand a radical review and a change in the wrong economic policy of the government, based on the wrong ideaology of trapping and reducing consumption, leads to a deepening crisis and total impoverishment of citizens. We insist on the need for public policies to stimulate, national production, domestic consumption, export expansion, job creation, wage increases, pensions and social standards. We also warn President Prashenko against following Yanukovitch's path, a reversal of the presidency of which began with the Kharkiv treaties with the Kremlin, the rape of the Constitution and the establishment of an artificial parliamentary coalition contrary to the will of the citizens. Any attempt to resuscitate authoritarianism in Ukraine, attempts to break through the knee of incompatible patriots in parliament and society doomed to defeat. And the time frame for power in Ukraine after Maidan and the Dignity Revolution has been accelerated, we warn President Prashenko, from following the example of Putin, the pianist in the blood of military, law enforcement or civilians and appropriate attempts to distract society from anti-Ukrainian treachery or failures in the conduct of radical changes in Ukraine. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láska, initiates the establishment of the National Council in Parliament, from the number of patriotic deputies with a state position who did not support the Kremlin's scenario of changes to the Ukrainian Constitution, aimed at the separation of the state, the collapse of the reform process and the European course of development of Ukraine. We appeal to all Ukrainian patriots to unite their efforts to protect the Constitution, to defend Ukraine’s independent and constituency. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u95	Please, the national deputy Popov handed the word to the national deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u96	Dear Ukrainian people! We're going back to the sad times, we're going back to the times of repression, until the dark days of the Yanukovich regime, without consideration yesterday, and yesterday more than 30 Ukrainian patriots were thrown into action under the Supreme Council on August 31st among them most people did not take any measures of violence, had no weapons or other special means. Regardless of this, they have been imprisoned for two months, including a public activist named Bogdan Titsky, who is the hero of the Dignity Revolution and was injured, who fought for Grušev, Institute, and Bank. For 8 months, he fought in the village of Pisky under the Donetsk airport. When he was detained in three places, his arm was broken. Doctors did not provide assistance, and they began to provide only after the intervention of Ukrainian national deputies. For two days, he was tried to take a precaution when he lost consciousness twice. Yesterday in court with the use of the force "Berkut" was again beaten by public activists, it was happening again, like in Yanukovich's time, again beating the Ukrainian national deputies, it's the same "Berkut", the same! He was headed by a deputy gardener who fled to DNR. And now the sick man, Bogdan Titsky, is being operated on by automatics. I have a question for the President, he is. Repeating the course of Yanukovic, is he afraid to go where he was sent on December 1st to Banco? Isn't he afraid that he won't be in Rostov's place? Does he not fear that the wrath of the Ukrainian people will fall on his head and upon his followers? Surrender yourselves, for you will be grieved! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u97	Popov? Popov. [[B in m in s a l in]] They don't go in a row. Sign up. Please, National Deputy Artemenko has given the floor to the national deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear people of Ukraine! I want to congratulate Ukrainian entrepreneurs on Entrepreneur's Day and to stress today that these people who are building the economy of Ukraine, who are paying taxes that create jobs, they deserve especially the best attitude from the state. Dear colleagues, the Radical Party faction insists on a radical change in economic and monetary policy. First and foremost today is a real, not a nominal rise in social standards. What is the average wage increase of 160 dollars today? The Radical Party faction requires an increase in the minimum wage of 2.5 times. This is economically sound, since it does not need to include a printing press, so inflation does not need to be blown up, and this requires a radical reduction in tax pressure, first and foremost, on wages. The only social contribution should be a maximum of 15 percent, then we'll have European taxes on wages. So we're going to take out hundreds of billions of dollars that are being paid in envelopes today, and they don't go into the budget. These costs are aimed at raising social standards. A pensioner can't live today for a thousand dollars, he can't live for 1.5 thousand dollars. We have to be honest today, raise social standards at the expense of, first of all, detining the economy, getting the economy out of the shadows. We have to do this immediately because more than 70 percent of the economy -- this is the demand of households, this is what we are with you, people buying in stores, in stores. If we don't have the money to buy, the economy is falling, that's what we're seeing right now. That is why we are firmly opposed to the shameful policy of stallion. We're supposed to cut taxes today, get the economy out of the shadows, increase the purchasing power of citizens. And that these people are going to buy expensive things or cars or something? But no, they're going to buy clothes, drugs, teach their children -- it's going to be an economic revival. The second is deregulation. Deregulation should be real, not imitation. To this end, the Radical Party faction initiated a few days ago the Ordinance on Systemic Reform of the State Service. Instead of cutting by 5, 10, 15 percent of the government that gives nothing, because the most capable people go, they go to work in business, we have to systematically review today, check out all the executives: eliminate surpluses; reduce the number where needed, three or more times; increase the level of pay of these public officials. Tell us how corruption can be overcome in the public service when a person receives a salary of 1200,1300 dollars, and they are managed by millions. So we have, on the one hand, to raise social standards, on the other hand, to make it more difficult to be responsible, including government officials, and that will be fair. Extracurricular organs, extra jobs to eliminate and normally pay those who are professional, who are patriotic, who are motivated by economic recovery, not permanent corruption. Third. Tax reform. Tax reform must be done in the interests of Ukrainian citizens and entrepreneurs. The main emphasis should be on reducing tax pressure and radical tax administration. In order to significantly reduce the tax force. In order not to be the same as now, every entrepreneur is afraid of a tax collector. We have to do this systematically: simplify real taxation in Ukraine. We have every opportunity to do that today. We are obliged to do so. Smaller taxes and simpler administrations are more government revenue, not the other way around. We have to introduce powerful investment incentives to those new productions that come to Ukraine. Today, conditions such as in China were granted 35 years ago, as in Poland 15 years ago, what Turkey and Slovakia are doing today. If we don't attract investment, we'll never live in Europe, because the foreign investor won't come, and we'll stay here with the old corruptionists. We have to release a new free "blood of investment" into Ukraine. Dear colleagues, next. Credit policy. The shameful credit policy of the National Bank of Ukraine today kills the Ukrainian industry. Instead of raising the National Bank's account rate, making loans more expensive and more expensive, washing out negotiable costs in entrepreneurs, we have, as in other countries, in times of crisis: making loans cheaper for industry, sending them to the real economy, creating jobs, creating new productions, and not washing money through offshore abroad. The country's monetary policy has to work for industry and production. Finally, investment and industrial policy must be pursued in the country. What are we seeing today? We're looking at a drift from Ukraine, a further drift that preserves our status as a raw colony that mostly exports foreign grain, metal, forest ore and iron ore. We have an intelligence, we have a nation's talent to produce a finished product that costs a lot to bring tax into Ukraine, a budget revenue that will invest in Ukraine to make us live in Europe. To live in Europe, we need radical economic reforms. Not the conservation of that disgraceful status quo that exists today. We must recognize this and invite all our colleagues, regardless of their fractional political affiliation, to support this stately position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u99	Thank you. National deputy Evtushok Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u100	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people. In addition to the great global problems, economic downturns are real things that we need to talk about immediately and quickly resolve. Now I'm talking about having District 156 with the center of Sarna, we have a huge problem. Magnificent smoldering, smoldering by the peacocks, smoldering by the local authorities, executives, such as the DSNS State Department of Emergency Situations, cannot cope with this nonlocal problem alone, I think. Apparently, with synoptic data, the leaders would have to predict a situation where a month or a month or a month and a month and a half will be free of rain and the burning of pears, pears, and pears. And it's not about ecology anymore, it's about the health of children, it's about the health of older people who have hypertonic diseases. Evidently, the area that is now plagued by the burning of the Torpians is an area affected by the Chernobyl disaster. We can only imagine what radiation background is in these areas right now. That's why I'm calling. I call and see that both local and local activists and authorities are trying to deal with this problem, but I personally urge the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take personal control, create a headquarters or center for coordinating decisions. Involve technology in other areas immediately, even to help localize the problem. Resources. Same situation. Immediately give children, people who are sick, and I am confident that there are data in the departments of work and social protection on who, as the disease suffers, will immediately dispense the drugs immediately. Stop schooling because we risk the health of our children. Again and again, I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine immediately to respond and localize the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u101	Thank you. National deputy Tetjana Bachtieva, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! According to a recent sociological survey in our country, more than 80 per cent of Ukrainians today are saving their food, medicine and health. This high percentage has not been achieved in all years of independence of Ukraine. This, of course, is primarily due to the extreme impoverishment of the people. And of course, the reason is that drugs are rising prices, not in the daytime, but in the hours. They're so attached to the dollar. The Government does not regulate the price policy of medicines at all, which is largely and in large numbers of countries. The provision of free medical care guaranteed by the Constitution is also not possible today. Since the hospitals are completely empty, there's no medicine, there's no bandages, there's no greens. In this critical situation, of course, we have waited, first and foremost, for years from the Government, from the Ministry, for the implementation of State programmes and for the financing of protected hospitals. These are programmes such as cancer, including childhood cancer, tuberculosis, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and more than 17, government programmes. To date, these programmes have not been funded by even 30 per cent. What were we waiting for? What was recently registered and passed by the Kabmin Bill of 2309, which is fully aimed at privatizing public and municipal hospitals. The bill makes it very clear that today's public and community health institutions must become public and communal enterprises. That is, to reorganize them into equity societies and societies with limited responsibilities. This is a straight line towards bankruptcy and privatization. And the authors do not even hide that they should then open accounts not in public but in commercial banks. This is done to ensure that credit is secured by the property and medical equipment purchased under the taxes of each Ukrainian. And the special cynicism is that if hospitals do not become enterprises within a year, they will be completely refused to be funded as public hospitals. In fact, it is a completely pure genocide of the Ukrainian people. This is a criminal experiment over such a vast country where fighting is taking place, in which 100 people die every hour, in which one child dies for two hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u103	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u104	I am deeply confident that in this convening, the people's deputies will not categorically support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u105	Thank you. National MP Anna Romanova, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u106	My fellow national MPs, unfortunately, are no longer representatives of the government, especially the Prime Minister, because today I wanted to draw your attention to the disturbing actions that are taking place under the walls of the Montenegrin government. The thing is, people went to a protest rally against the new head of the Chernigovtorf company. And that's a huge problem. Because as a national deputy, I've been constantly receiving alarming signals about the attempted bankruptcy of an intentional company called Chernigovtorf, about the illegal extraction of peat in the Chernigiv region. And it's very sad that Montenegro, which at the same level of economic development is depressed and can make money on torphobriquettes, is now in such a situation that this raw material is exported by the state's strategic resource abroad, and the state can't influence this process. There's a rally going on. I ask this request that I consider the request to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to address the situation of illegal peat mining in Montenegro, as well as attempts to deliberately bankrupt the Smolen factory for the production of torfobriquets. The point is that a few months ago, a new head from Luhansk, Jaremka, was appointed to stop the business. So please, this situation is similar across Ukraine. The situation with amber, the situation of illegal sand mining across Ukraine, gas, and oil has led Ukraine, which by its resources is a rich country, to be transported abroad. Please ask the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to look into the situation. In addition to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Demchishin, he intervened in the situation of personnel assignments and has yet to remove Jaremek, head of the state-run Chernigivtorf. And in order for the head of the Government of Montenegro to go to a meeting of the group, not to be neutral at all, he promised to meet people. But yesterday, people were blocking the route, and he never met a team, and he didn't do any personnel work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u107	Thank you. People’s MP Linko gave the floor to the national MP Tomenko. It's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, this is our classic Alexander Longzhenko who once wrote a thing called "Ukraine in the Fire." So just now, Ukraine has fire, smoke and corruption. And I'm analyzing and thinking, why did it happen that yesterday we blew smoke over Kiev, and smoke and fire all over Ukraine. I think the answer is very simple, that in Ukraine, where dilettants and irresponsible people are in power, it will always be. Because today there is virtually no government policy in the environmental field. Today, firefighters who sacrifice and put their lives on the altar go and get married to find a tanner to go out and shut up. There is no management system at all today. Today, a firefighter can't even go into a gas, oil or some kind of complex to check out what rules of fire order, because big business has lost its ability not to answer any public requests at all. So, as head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, I insist that, at last, not the party quota or the oligarchic quota, but as a result of the open competition, the Minister of Environment was chosen and appointed as a result of a professional open competition to be appointed head of the Chernobyl alienation zone, and there, in general, friends, a paradoxical and sad situation. For a year on the committee, we fought to free the one looking at Yanukovich. And what did we get? Now the viewer who's from Odessa from the other party is sitting. And for those, with insolence and pride the one from Yanukovich rests compared with the new one who looks. Today, in fact, tickets have been written out to someone who needs to be paid to whom the official is. Western international organizations that finance the Hide-Two are in shock because they're giving their donor funds so that we can finish our work in November 2017, and this clothing group is looking at, so it says that we don't know Americans, we don't know Germans, we don't know French, we need money, we bought jobs, we need money. So I'm asking you to deal with the situation there, to assign a professional man to gather those people who have been on Chernobyl since day 1, and they know what to do there. There are people who understand what the Chernobyl area and Chernobyl are, not those who go and cure Chernobyl. Forest situation. My friends, after we've made an incredible effort here to get the Chief of the Supreme Council and the President to sign a bill banning the export of the Kruglac forest that has taken place. So it started to be exported while we had a transition period that was going on in geometric progress. Today, all our routes are dead. Today, our seaports are dead. So my colleagues here are Victor Halasyuk and many of the others with whom we worked today, and we've introduced a bill today, so that, at least by precious births, we don't wait for January 1, 2016, but we can immediately ban the roundwood and control and see what's going on in this area. The situation appears to be in such a way that today the government has put, made a bet on, called, short money. He thinks that today you can earn, well, in your pocket, I mean, make, and budget money by actually turning Ukraine into a raw material supplement. And our position is that before winter, we should be doing our best here in the Supreme Council to support energy conservation programmes. We have a bill, we didn't get to it yesterday, we promised a woodworking industry, and we have to vote for aids for infrastructure machines, which will allow us to recharge the woodworking industry, create jobs and go into the winter period already for a lot of solid, chicken and so on heating. We're going to become as independent as possible in this area. The government has promised us, but there is no serious program to subsidize the transition to solid equipment today. Another thesis that doesn't seem to be sad or even funny sometimes. For six months in this room, we talked about the fact that Ukraine cannot be built at the expense of pensioners and budgeters. And now we're told with a big paphos that power has taken place, and two days before the election, it's going to raise pensions and wages. It's usually a genius move, those electoral pensions and wages so much that those guys that Janukovich did the electoral campaign, they're going from one team to another, because we saw that at the election in Yanukovich. Not before the election, we need pensions, we need to raise wages, we need to have an adequate indexation, we need to look at what level of inflation we need to see in every social group that needs what kind of support we have today. And to intimidate people today because we have a state today where the middle class is destroyed and where the vast majority of people today are on the verge of survival. So I am absolutely convinced that Ukraine will not be in the fire, in the smoke and in corruption, must return responsibility, must return order, and only then will we be confident that we will protect power from the Russian aggressor, the state, I'm sorry, from the Russian aggressor, and protect the state from many officials, and representatives of today's power, which in many ways works worse than the Russian aggressor. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u109	Thank you. National MP Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u110	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear TV setters, radio audiences, everyone who cares about the fate of the country, everyone who doesn't care what country we live in tomorrow, what Constitution! On August 31, a betrayal took place in the Supreme Council Hall. Parliamentarians voted in favour of the changes to the Constitution: "Prashenka Block", "The People's Front" along with "The Opposition Block" for the shameful changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. What exactly is suggested in the Constitution, the words that led to the death of three young men under the walls of Parliament? Three things proposed in the Constitution are the creation of regional and district councils. And they're saying that this is the decentralization of power, and besides this decentralization, no one's pointing or telling anything else. City councils have long worked with performances, nothing has happened as strange as working and working, circuits, areas for executions have not been created. In order to manage the funds, these so-called government administrations, whose heads were appointed by the Presidential Administration and controlled by all district and district budgets, were created. Was it necessary for the country to do so? Probably not. Because the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine clearly sets out the exclusive powers of councils and the budgetary arrangements are there. And each year, when the budgets were adopted the following year, the district councils handed over their exclusive powers to the same authorities, giving full authority. Yes, it's gotta be broken, yes, it's a two-powered power that needs to be stopped, but it's a positive change to the Constitution and it's over. How can we avoid losing our presidential authority in such a reform? It's very simple to introduce an institution of viewers. Such "lookers" on the new changes to the Constitution, which we are all offered to accept, are prefects. Not even the prefect's office, not the prefect's institute, but the prefect is the person who will organize, control, inspect all the organs of the state executive, all the organs of local self-government. What a place it must be for more than a hundred organs in one month to check what they are doing! And the worst part is that under all these slogans of decentralization, the special status of Donbas is hidden. I'm told there's no word "special," let's look at the text, it says, "Local self-government in certain areas of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions is carried out under special law" is that not a special status? Yes, he is the same status as the stumbling block that led to the victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u111	Thank you. People’s MP Lasko gave the floor to the National MP, Linko Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u112	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Finally, a new military doctrine was adopted in Ukraine, according to which Russia is an aggressor. That's absolutely right, that's the truth everyone understands, we have Russia's aggressor not just today, but for the next ten years. Because this war will last for a long time, this war until the Kremlin changes the system of power that exists. As long as this system of power exists in the Kremlin, while Putin is there, we'll have problems with Russia like him. But exactly the same policy and doctrine must be internal. We must strengthen our defenses in times of war. To this end today, the first petition that was sent to the President has collected 25,000 signatures -- a petition from an association of gun owners who are offering to finally adopt the law that we legalize weapons in Ukraine, legalize weapons for self-defence. Because today is a catastrophic situation with an illegal arms market. Today, we see what causes the large number of weapons that are in the population. It is in order to resolve this issue that we must allow the Ukrainians to defend themselves with legal firearms. And this is an issue that is very relevant today, and I hope that this law will be passed. We are a faction of the Radical Party, almost in full stock, signed under this law, and in society, in fact, there is support for this law. We just have to explain that question. Secondly, what you need to do about internal defense. We're trying to reach a diplomatic agreement on a peaceful settlement of the conflict. But nowhere in the Minsk Accords is there any indication that we are to conduct smuggling in the East today. Today, smuggling in the East is a major issue and a major problem among the military. Serious conflicts among military officers occur among various parts because someone is trying to cover up this smuggling that we finance, in fact, terrorists. During the days in the Luhansk region, volunteers were killed, and we demand an investigation into who was responsible for this murder, because there are suspicions that it was the Ukrainian military officers who were covering the smuggling. So, the main thing we need to do even in terms of negotiations is to block the occupied territories of both Crimea and Donetsk and Lugansk, which were occupied by the Russian forces. Because there's no telling that we have to sponsor terrorists. We need to strengthen our defenses today and do everything we can. In our power to give people a normal opportunity to defend themselves, to legalize weapons. And in our ability to make full blockade of occupied territories so that terrorists are not able to finance and have no opportunity to live at our expense. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u113	Thank you. People’s MP Vuk gave the floor to the national deputy Silantyev, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u114	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Layashka. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! On one of his speeches at the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine stressed the importance of learning English and took the initiative to declare the following year English in Ukraine in 2016. Yes, I agree with the thesis that English is the language of international communication, and in today's global world, it is not simply unacceptable to have a primary communication tool. But I know that at least another very effective and effective language of international communication is the language of sport. And Ukrainian athletes have made this happen over and over again. Today, athletes are or are not the only representatives in Ukraine who are promoting the positive image of our country in the international arena, where the language of official diplomacy does not work, our talented athletes are proving again and again that we Ukrainians are proud that the Ukrainian nation is invincible. However, despite the victories and achievements of our athletes in the various sports arenas of the world, the government cancels the financing of children's and young sports, does not propose a program for the reconstruction and reconstruction of sports infrastructure, does not create conditions for the development of mass sports, active and healthy lifestyles, does not take basic steps to promote physical culture in the media. Yes, Ukraine is experiencing difficult times today, but at the same time with patriotic and strong citizens of Ukraine, we need physically strong and healthy defenders of the country. Unfortunately, though, this is not a better situation. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense, every other person of the age of conscription is unfit for military service. It also raises concerns about the health of our schoolchildren. Attention! During their entrance to high school, 20 percent of children have unsatisfying health. The situation with high school graduates is the opposite, and 80 percent of schoolchildren already have health problems. What does this indicate? The fact that government and science are constantly trying to complicate school curricula is not at all a concern for the state of motor activity of children during the school process. The Radical Party faction is definitely "for" the Euro-Integration Perspectives for Ukraine, including we recognize and support the need to learn foreign languages, but if such a weak government policy is introduced to improve the state of the nation's health, it will soon be no longer for anyone to learn English but their own Ukrainian language. The Radical Party faction requires the government to develop programs to promote healthy lifestyles, programs to support and develop physical culture and mass sports, promotions to encourage business to invest in development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u115	Thank you. People’s MP Koseljeva gave the floor to Popov’s national deputy, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u116	Igor Popov, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Deputies! Dear voters! What questions do our citizens most often ask us? Why are we living so poor? Why do we have such low wages and prices go up? And the answers to these questions are obvious. These are ineffective government decisions. It's a terrible corruption that's only growing. And it's a waste of government property that just reduces government budget revenue. Where else are we going to get decent pensions, decent wages, worthy scholarships? The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already repeatedly turned over the government’s proposals to privatize profitable enterprises. The government tells us that we need to privatize businesses that don't make profits. And that's right, but why do we have alcohol factories, wood shops -- companies that have a bunch of our citizens working, who earn a normal salary, and who can continue to pay their taxes on the budget. I am entrenched by the faction's decision to work in the Gitomir region. And literally the other day, our constituents from the Žitomir region called on me to stop the waste of municipal property. I'm sorry. For the next session of the district council, next week the District Council met to privatize the district blood center. 60 percent of the shares they want to give to a private company that is registered in Cyprus (Cyprus).), controlled by former regions. Why is this being done? It's understandable. Once this is done, blood prices will rise. We don't understand how high the prices in pharmacies are for all medicines today, and blood products are vital for people with severe diseases. And the district council wants to raise prices for all population categories? Of course, if only 30 percent are left in utility property, it will quickly be washed away and taken away. A strategic enterprise is being privatized today because there is a war in Ukraine. Two military units are based in the territory of the Zitomir region. Unfortunately, we have a growing number of injured people who need these drugs. And so from this high hall, I'm going to the District Council, to its deputies, to the head of Mr. French's district council, to exclude this issue from the agenda, to consult with the community, to consult with the profile commissions, we know that in the district council committees, this is the same thing that gets blocked, normal deputies don't allow themselves to engage in community property, they realize that it's not possible to do that. The Radical Party will always oppose such a debacle in the Supreme Council, in the government, in every local council, if we have such facts, in the villas we will get out of the hall, out of the delegation of those who do. I call on the community of the city of Žitomir, a community in the area to follow who is voting for the position of each deputy and in the next election to evaluate those deputies, by everyone's activities, by merit, in matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u117	Thank you. People’s MP Omelchenko gave the floor to the national deputy Borislava Berezi, who was nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u118	Borislav Bereza, non-factional. On September 4, 91st of the Supreme Council, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, a Ukrainian flag was raised, but today no person in the Supreme Council has mentioned this, because if we don't remember our history, we won't remember anything at all. Now a lot of people have forgotten that Crimea is Ukraine, and they don't mention it either. What can I say? Password is nothing. We need a plan to get Crimea back to Ukraine. There's a 2020 strategy in Ukraine, but will anyone tell me if there's a Crimea return plan in Ukraine? No one sees him or hears him. High - ranking workers generally keep their mouths shut. Crimea is said to be Ukraine. But as long as you don't say "halva," you don't get cute in your mouth. Our government and the country's leadership need to be announced as soon as possible how, in what way, we're going to return Crimea, because if we don't do anything, we're not going to get Crimea back. Inaction gives rise to silence, silence, both in this room and in Ukraine. But I'm sure Crimea is Ukraine. And to do that, you have to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u119	Thank you. People’s MP Silantiev gave the floor to the National Deputy of Fishing, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! I would like to raise a very important question. The question of restructuring loans under Law 1558, which has been discussed in parliament for so long. As the head of the committee, I wish to say that, unfortunately to date, although this law has been voted on in three readings, no decision has been taken on it. It is not signed by the Head of the Supreme Council and there is no further movement towards that end. This indicates that there is no desire not for the Government today, not for the National Bank to decide on the issue of the citizens concerned. Unfortunately, the committee and I are called every day by those people who are driven to despair who are beyond the poverty line and whose issue is not being resolved today. I'm sure and I want to say that the Radical Party faction will be here soon. has sought and will seek a solution to this issue. Those people who today, thanks to the actions of the Government and the devaluation in the country that has taken place, have been brought to the brink of poverty. I believe that the law that was voted upon should be signed and that the question of borrowers should be decided. The fact that both the National Bank and the Government have left this issue is an incompetent, abnormal position of the National Bank and the Government. Our faction has insisted and insists that the head of the National Bank should resign rather than the competent person and manager who is not in his place. If the law is not signed soon, the Radical Party faction, together with other deputies, will develop a new bill with those who are now desperate and below the poverty line to address the issue. We cannot leave those Ukrainians behind, and we cannot fail to meet them to address this issue. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u121	Thank you. People's MP Papiew is missing. And the People's Deputies of Musei, "Peter Prashenko's Block." This is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u122	Glory to Ukraine! I would like to refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You see, it says, "Museum O.S., faction of Peter Dustock." You all know, and this has become public, because on Monday, I protested that there was a so-called "broad" in the Supreme Council, and I applied to the Supreme Council for an exit from the "Peter Poroshenko Block." That's why I insist, the leadership of the Supreme Council, to announce my application, please. And I don't want anything else in common to have this inscription under my name. Moreover, these were the demands of the direct voters in my native district of Sokal and Redwater that they did not support the changes proposed for the Constitution of Ukraine. I don't understand the selective approach taken by the Supreme Council's leadership on self-help exclusion very quickly by five national deputies, one day after the decision was made. And the statements made by the people’s deputies have been considered for a long time. That's one question. I think it will soon be fulfilled, the requirements of the Rules. And I'm going to announce my exit from Peter Dusty's Block. The other one. It's very important. You know, the people of Ukraine, the honourable voters who are about to mislead you in the first place with the so-called new elections to the local authorities. One of the political apheristic structures called the People's Front, and its leader, the People's Front, is the current prime minister of Ukraine, who publicly declared not to participate in the local elections. This is the first time in the history of all the countries of the world and the history of Ukraine that the leader of the political party, who is the Prime Minister, has 78 mandates in the Supreme Council, claims political impotence and the "nice bubble" they have created as the People's Front. That's why, after the culinary negotiations, and you've seen it in the media, that the People's Front is still being poured into the Petra Prashenko Block of Solidarity. Unfortunately, such events are now taking place in all areas of Ukraine when candidates are being nominated. And in Kiev, including, and in my native Lvivence, that "cartoons" are so-called "frontiers", following their leader, who was a "cart," like at least four political projects, and now politically irresponsiblely continues to occupy the Prime Minister's chair, are being pushed by the "Peter Prashenko Block". My former colleagues at the Petra Prashenka Block, influence that your rating isn't as low as the People's Front in two months. Glory to Ukraine! I think the Ukrainian people are smart and understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Left, National Deputy Aresonkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Vladimir Aresonkov, Block Petra Poroshenka, 64th District, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I'm kind of symbolically finishing my speech. And my subject today, let's put it this way, to the fellow MPs and to all of us, is about education and science development in the country. And it's about that, in a coalition agreement, these issues aren't in the first ten, and it's just that the government, in making decisions, is also putting the education issue somewhere, so are we. So I'm going to try very briefly. Please, Your Honor, join actively in the adoption of the Basic Education Act. Now I'm paying attention to the position of the Ministry of Education and Science to prevent the destruction of the postgraduate pedagogical education system. Today, there are, let's say, the desire of some innovators to change, and more specifically, to eliminate the system of district institutions of postgraduate pedagogical education, their functions of teaching universities, and this is how to solve the issues. It's extremely difficult, it needs careful study.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-04-m0.u125	Thank you. The morning session is closed. The next meeting of the Supreme Council will take place on September 15, 2015, at 10 a.m.
