ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Ten o'clock, we're starting our session. Please take your seats. Get ready to register, we're starting our work. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Let's get started. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Please. [[10:03:23]] 295 deputies registered. We're starting our work. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear fellow members of the national MPs, today a number of our colleagues are celebrating their birthday. Let's welcome them with this day. Let's say hello to Olga Belkov. In the workplace, Olga, we welcome all earthly benefits, successes, and well - being. Happy birthday! [[Applause]] Andrija Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk is happy to be born. [[Applause]] All the good, all the best. And Arthur Volodymyrovich Martovitchki, we welcome our colleague on his birthday. We wish all our colleagues success and well - being. Dear colleagues, on June 9, 2015, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected for the election of Ukraine’s national deputies on October 26, 2014, Dubil Valerija Alexandrovich is included in the election list of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum is invited. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Your attention, please. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Valérie Alexandrovich Dubyl, is invited. Please, Your Honor, make an oath to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u3	We welcome a fellow member of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Welcome. Take your place. Dear fellow members of the National MPs, we have 30 minutes under the Rules on Tuesday for the factions and groups. Please prepare for writing. Get ready, please. Please sign up for the faction and the group, please. Writing done. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite you to the words of Mr. Brezuk Oleg Romanovich, head of the Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Mr. Head, we all need to read our Coalition Agreement carefully this week, we all need to listen carefully to the President's speech in Parliament last, we all need to read carefully our electoral promises, because we all talked as one about proportionate, open lists of the election system in Ukraine. We have committed ourselves to the country’s electorate to create conditions for free and, above all, conscious choice, a proportionate and open list system. Today we feel that we are having a hard time working with MPs, along with the public, we have developed Law 2831-2 where there is an amendment field, but today there are proposals that are meant to destroy this situation. So, honourable factions, honourable deputies, let's continue to work to confirm today our desire to create a new electoral system in Ukraine. The other one. The Self-Help faction and residents of Ukraine are waiting for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to respond as scheduled tariffs in Ukraine. This is a principled question that is patiently awaited by the MPs and I stress the word "temporary" while people in Ukraine are waiting. Therefore, we urge the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, NAC Naftogaz and NCRE to report their actions immediately to correct the tariff errors in Ukraine. And last but not least, there is a misunderstanding of the constitutional reform. To this day, Ukrainian national deputies do not have at least the previous text of amendments to the Constitution regarding local self - government. There are different rumours, there are different agreements that local self - government can be destroyed by excessive centralization. So we expect you, Mr. Head, to make a specific proposal for a text of amendments to the Constitution in order to continue working with our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Against the background of the worsening political and economic crisis in Ukraine, its leadership is making decisions that make the situation worse. The complete blockade of Donbas, the deliberate blockade of the Minsk agreements supported by the entire international community, is a way to stamp out the entire region of Ukraine, citizens living there, and have Ukrainian passports. So the Opposition Block initiates and will hold a convention of signatures called "For Peace!" In order for the ruling coalition to see how many people really want reconciliation and an end to the military conflict, and this is a nation that should be considered by the authorities. The economic situation continues to deteriorate, and people already know that the louder and more enthusiastic government members report their successes, the worse the economic situation and the longer the belts have to be held. This has always been an indicator of economic health. During this year, we lost nearly a million jobs and saw no government efforts to combat progressive unemployment. Including these measures, there is no order of the day in this plenary week. The Opposition Block stresses that supporting the real economy and preserving jobs should be a priority for the state and a priority for Parliament. I wanted to focus on the following, and it starts to get out of control with a criminogenic and technological situation in the country. In absolutely peaceful cities throughout the country, every day of killing, slaughter, fire, and technological accidents the authorities cannot cope with. All of this creates an environment of social disorder, and Ukraine is transformed not only by economic indicators but also by the level of crime and powerlessness. I will not be surprised by the appearance of pirates on the Dniper and the Azova Sea, and on Friday we demand that we listen to the leaders of the force force force, take action, and return to control of the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u7	Please, National Deputy Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich, "The will of the people." Igor Jeremeyev, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u8	Ukrainian people! Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! In February 2015, after a lengthy discussion, the Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities was passed. Under such a noble name, the reform of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine has in fact been abrogated. The government is proposing to reduce territorial communities ten times, and today this reform is moving fully across Ukraine. If for cities, it seems, this reform does not change anything, then the villagers may be very unpleasantly surprised. People's major MPs, who travel very often to villages, into communities, they realize that, in fact, what's happening today is what we're saying is "voluntary union of communities." For example, there are such things as a population point where there are no 250 children -- there is no school. Or the hospital can be located only in a settlement of 150,000 people and not less than 100 kilometers [100 km] away. Every national MP knows what today is like. What are the roads that today provide for the transportation of district hospitals and district hospitals? We know very well how the school bus program has been implemented, and how, for example, from 10 population locations to deliver children to school in 30 minutes. This is not the main thing, as always in our country, that we should report to Kiev that voluntary community reunification is taking place. And what is happening today? District. At the district administration level, decisions are made authoritarianly as a union, the district council adopts the project, sends it to Kiev, and no one works with the communities. Today, there is no work to explain; there is no work to be done in places. The faction group "The will of the people" refers to the coalition, to the people's deputies. We need to finish the pear on television, we need to end the talks on reforms, we need to go to the districts, we need to go to people, we need to hear that they actually think about territorial reform and start work: either stop this process and get a perfect understanding of each local community, make an individual decision, and that's where people live, people live. Because it all reminds us of how in the '60s, the collectives were united. As a result, half the monks disappeared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u9	National Deputy Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Russian fighters are increasing their activity. According to our intelligence, as well as observers in Western countries, the daily increase in gunfire on our military positions suggests that an aggressor is preparing for a major war. During the battle for Marinka and other military operations, the soldiers demonstrated their willingness to give a firm return to the invader. Convinced and I know the aggressor's plans are doomed to failure. At the same time as the battalion commander who took part in the fighting, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to state that our soldiers, apart from providing reliable and effective weapons, want to have confidence in the back of their heads; that as long as they are fighting on the front lines, risking their lives and hiding their brothers, the country will not be torn apart by political populists on the inside of the political front, there is enough wisdom, the responsibility to focus on the strength of the country, not on its destruction. Individual politicians, this is true of those who are sitting and in this room, who have found it too difficult to cope with their many years of habit of developing wasteland in Parliament and on the many hours they bought the talk show, trying to upset citizens' moods on tariffs and income indexes. The People's Front faction has its answer to these political speculators. Yes, we know how difficult it is for Ukrainians today. We also know that the government of Arsenija Yatzenyuk is working to make Ukraine's economy grow by 2016, and even in today's crisis 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers has been able to increase its revenues to local budgets through fiscal decentralization. Today, the main expenditure in the country is the cost of defence. 5 percent of GDP is a record amount of military spending in the budget. And recently, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has given the government a task and an additional $8.5 billion. This is the only right decision in the condition that an enemy armed with teeth concentrates forces near the border. Yes, the government of Ukraine is more interested in raising citizens' incomes than anyone else. Only in the face of unprecedented military spending is it difficult to find funds right now, but this is possible because of the funds confiscated from Yanukovich and his gang. The government has taken steps to block about one and a half billion dollars from the family accounts. The head of government appealed to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office to move these funds from the comfort of the confiscated ones, and for them it was possible to index wages and increase pensions, and for these purposes it would be possible to channel the funds that our country had stolen as a result of a 2009 gas contract with Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u12	And this is 16 billion U.S. dollars. Think about it. It was overpaid for the efforts of the then government to gain the favor of the Kremlin. After a fair decision by the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal, which reviewed the Ukrainian lawsuit, the funds would be reimbursed to the Ukrainians, whose pockets had been insolently stolen. Next. As for the tariff policy that government critics like to say. What I want to say is that the Cabinet of Ministers is not in charge of setting the level of municipal tariffs, and this is one of the competences of the Independent Authority of the National Commission for Electricity Control. But people don't care. The Cabinet of Ministers, the President or the National Commission for Electricity Control, they have all the power. So in order to remove the political temperature and remove the motive for the baseless pianist, the government appealed to international auditors to carry out a tariff verification. By the end of the week, the result of the first stage of the audit will be presented to the public. Our faction also calls on Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland faction, to take office instead of baseless criticism of tariff policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u13	Finish it, please. Andrew, please finish, you've already passed the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u14	I'm done. Take office as chairman of the National Commission for Electricity Regulation and prove tariff cuts. Last but not least. We don't have the right to allow ourselves to get worse, it's too expensive for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u16	The happiest dream of Lord Kremlin is torn by the political strife of Ukraine. We have no right to make this dream a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u17	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u18	Let's work for the unity of our country. Today, history is being made before our eyes. At the same time, we are its creators. And we have to look at this historic moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, this is an important day for Ukraine. Today, a tripartite contact group will meet in Minsk. And we expect serious results from it, perhaps even a breakthrough in the settlement of the Donbas conflict. There will also be special hearings in the European Parliament today regarding the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. Ukraine has done so. And for us, it is very important that the European community responds to the gross violations of the Minsk Accords that Russian-terrorist forces are taking on at Donbas. Today, the Minsk Accords are the only security against the Great War on Donbas. That is why it is so important for all of us to support their implementation. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the people of Donbas are already tired of what's going on there. Yesterday, when 500 people came out and went unarmed to go after Zacharychenk's gunmen, and told them that what was going on there should be stopped, that they should take the guns out of their backyards, stop killing people, stop the war, that's the first sign of what was going on everywhere, including at Donbassa. And we hope that very soon the Ukrainians will show all these mercenaries and bandits at the door. And there's more. I want to draw your attention to a very important point. Today we are planning to privatize, including the privatization of the Odessa Port Facility. Of course, while supporting the need to find effective owners for public property, I would like to point out that we cannot violate the law. And we have the Environmental Audit Act, which warns that any action with a highly dangerous enterprise such as the Odessa Port Facility, which includes the largest ammonia reservoir in Europe, is worth 120,000 tons. Think about this figure — 120,000 tons of ammonia — cannot be done without a mandatory environmental audit, unfortunately it has not yet been carried out, and at the same time the Government's representatives are reporting on plans to privatize IPF. I would like to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the need for the strict implementation of Ukrainian environmental legislation in order to ensure the safety of the inhabitants of Odessa in the millions and cities around it. After all, the Odessa Port Facility is only 15 kilometres away from the first multi-family homes of Odessa and its security is the life and health of more than a million people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I think there's already the right words in the room today about what needs to be stopped, what needs to be done, and what's really going on in the country, in Parliament, and what happened this year after the election of the new President and after the election of Parliament, after the election of the new government. An assessment of the activities of the new government can be made by dry statistics officially posted on the Ukrainian State Statistics Service website. I'll read a few numbers. GDP minus almost 7 percent, industrial output minus 21.5 percent, capital investment almost minus 15 percent, exports minus 32 percent, retail trade minus 25, earnings of the population of Ukraine minus 22 percent, while the price index in Ukraine is almost 37 percent positive. We realize that there's still a dollar rate that's almost tripled and other parameters. At the same time, what we see. We're taking the day order for today, we're taking the day order for six months, a year that we're doing so that this country doesn't stop in the fall, and there's an economic collapse, a defult, and then the country collapses in the way that it exists today. Nothing's going on. We have no comprehensive answer to the question of how to deal with this economic threat. We see that the order of the day is almost a dozen questions that are not strategically resolved for the state today, they don't answer how to stop the decline of the industry, because otherwise we're going to lose almost 70 percent of the industry in the fall, and that's the locomotive of the economy, and that's the income of the population, and that's millions of jobs. We have no answer to what the economic policy of the government will be in this situation. I don't think our MP's rebirth party is in vain asking the question of calling the government. There's three weeks to go through some kind of capital paper that's going to be strategic in order to level the economy up to make an investment-attractive country. The Tax Code needs to be amended immediately, investment conditions must be created, law enforcement reform must be completed. We really need to get to the reform of the judicial branch of power, so that people have the answer and businessmen from around the world, that this country is reliable, stable and has real investment attractiveness. We see that today, unfortunately, there is only a policy of spending IMF funds, IMF loans that are ready. For the sake of which we are willing to go for everything, lose the economy, raise tariffs, reduce pensions just to get the next dose of this drug in the form of IMF money in Ukraine. It's not our policy. We demand that the government put in place a real plan of action for the next six months, otherwise there will be an economic collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u23	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! The myth of so - called populism in the country is shattered. We have just received from all areas of Ukraine the payment that our population paid for gas without the established counters in Winnice, Sumi, Kiev, Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk and other cities in Ukraine. So I'm handing over to Mr. Teteruk and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Groissman, the last payments that people have received from the efforts of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and the working group of parliament, where now instead of 130 dollars, people will pay 70 dollars if you don't have a counter. On occasion, I'd like everyone to see it and know it. The second question. But you can't stop at that. Because some strange thing, it turns out that without a counter, it's more convenient to be with a counter. We need to move on. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction has introduced two bills to Parliament that relate to the reduction of tariffs on a general basis. This means that after the conclusions of the Parliament's working group, after yesterday's meeting of the Head of Parliament and the heads of all factions with the Ukrainian trade unions, we have with you to consider the Tariffs Act, where it is now impossible for the government, the NCRE, to hide any other structure from tariff formation. And the second, which is equally important, is a bill that refers to a reduction in the rent that will be collected from state-owned companies by population. But I'm drawing your attention, there's a bill that's another alternative that predicts a reduction in the rent for business, but not a reduction in the salary for the population, that's for state companies that supply gas for the population. That's why our faction insists on the next. Without including the daily 5 key issues relating to pension insurance, the withdrawal of 15 percent of pension taxes, the removal of the burden on the Pension Fund as 50 billion dollars, our faction will not vote in favour of the daily order until all the other issues that somehow strangely occur at night are included, Mr. Head, have been removed from the agenda. These issues will be discussed in a joint working group of trade unions, government and parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u26	And we demand that these issues appear in the agenda right now so that the relevant committees, government, trade unions and national MPs have the opportunity to consider all of these issues, that is why we ask you to keep these issues in order. It's about the contract. I'd like to go back to Teteruk myself, because of a contract that was supported by two thirds of the People's Front, all of which were members of the Fatherland, but somehow they didn't stand the front that had to be kept, this contract, and it allows for international arbitration and victory, which has already been proven several times, thanks to this contract, Ukraine has the opportunity to condemn 5 billion in previous years, to set the price of $240 in the second quarter, about $190 in the third quarter, and that is what makes it possible to talk to Putin's aggressor today, and to Russia's Rao Gazprom. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u27	Thank you. A few words, respectable colleagues, a few words. In fact, draft laws don't go away at night, and I think we should stop. Yesterday there was a group that worked -- they were national MPs, faction leaders, together with the leaders of the trade unions. Where it was determined that these five laws would be studied today and tomorrow, so that the factions would read them, no one would see them in their eyes, excuse me, but only the numbers would be heard, and it would be clear that these laws would be followed by each faction. If we want to break these laws, we can place them whenever we want, and if we want to accept them, we need everyone to form their own position. So they didn't disappear, and we agreed that tomorrow afternoon the position of all the factions would be expressed, and then we would vote them in the agenda, maybe on Thursday. Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Last week, there was a story in Ukraine that discredited Ukrainian power, Ukrainian law enforcement, the Ukrainian Parliament -- it was the escape of Ukrainian national MP Sergey Klev. The Supreme Council voted in favour of the admission to criminal responsibility of Clovis, when the matter was considered in Parliament's Hall, members of the various factions demanded that a representative of the Attorney General's Office should be brought into custody and arrested. We MPs from the Radical Party faction demanded that other factions make this submission. The U.S. Attorney General, for reasons not well justified, refused to do so. As a result, the national deputy Clovis fled and is now hiding from the investigation and from the trial. The fact that Clovis escaped is not a coincidence. The keys were allowed to escape, the Cloak was given the opportunity to escape. Obviously Kluv brought a huge suitcase of money to escape, let anyone try to escape if they were watching him. Therefore, the Radical Party faction initiates the question of the resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Victor Shokin, because of the criminal inaction of which Victor, Sergey Klovev, escaped. Project Decisions are prepared for us. At this moment, 38 signatures of Ukrainian national MPs were collected from the Radical Party faction, from Self-Help, from the UCROP group, from a whole group of non-fractional national deputies, from a number of deputies from the Impact Group. I'm calling on my fellow Members of Parliament to support the draft decree to deal with the issue of the resignation of the Attorney General, and I need 150 votes. I'm talking to you, don't hide your head in the sand, don't avoid responsibility. Please sign under the draft decree and consider the resignation of the Attorney General. It's a disgrace, it's a violation of Ukrainian power, of the Ukrainian President, of the Ukrainian Parliament, when so far, a year and a half after the killing of people in Maidan, no one is standing. Boyko, who stole $500 million from oil and gas surpluses, today comes out, he's reading us lectures about Somalia. Although you've turned Ukraine into a battlefield where the putinian horde is killing millions of Ukrainian citizens today. And that's why I left the office of the President of Ukraine at two o'clock today, where we had a meeting with the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the Security Council, the President of Ukraine and the head of the Secretariat. I asked the President to apply for the release of Shaokin from the post of Henprocuror, and I asked the President to have the Attorney General submit a motion to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u30	To submit to the Supreme Council Hall for the removal of parliamentary immunity, the arrest and arrest of the national deputies Boyk and Ljovczyn, who, along with Yanukovicz, solved the war on Donbassa, who built the Yanukovic gang. I hope the President of Ukraine has heard our demands. In addition, with regard to the resignation of Mr. Kratweichenko, the arguments made by the President, the Radical Party faction, as a leader, have not convinced me, so our faction for the resignation of Mr. Natweichenko will not vote. Although we also understand that it is the President's right as High Commander to deploy, assign, or release the personnel, here we understand that this is the President's right, but there must be a basis for the release of the Head of the Board. And finally, lastly, I am addressing you to MPs of the coalition, honourable colleagues, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Self-Help, colleagues, the Radical Party and the Fatherland people good, wipe your eyes, you can't see what's going on, can't you see how a thief's regional Hydra raises its head? Can't you see how their tails are dissipated? Do you know why they do it? Do you know why this asshole came out of the well? Because we're not doing anything to you because we've given them the opportunity to go to Parliament, to hide behind the MP's intrusiveness, we're giving them the opportunity to run away to their representatives, we've voted on the Law on Intangible Justice, why doesn't this law work? Why are neither Yanukovich, Kluev, Azarov, nor Richterov condemned under this law? And I'm going to the government, to Prime Minister Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u31	Finish!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u32	I demand, Arsenius, an immediate and radical change in the economic policy of the state. Social issues, wage and pension index, and raising the standard of living of citizens. Otherwise we'll lose the country and there'll be a rematch of Yanukovic's gang and it's a civil war, it's a division of the country. Our job with you is not to let that happen. Our job is to stop this gang. If you feel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u33	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u34	responsibility to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u35	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u36	Twenty. If you feel responsible for your country, I appeal to you, brothers and sisters, in unity our strength, in unity! None.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, let's get to work. All three previous speakers took one minute, three minutes. Dear colleagues, take your seats. We have formed proposals for inclusion in the agenda: 51 draft law, 51. My consultations with factions of the coalition have identified the proposal of faction leaders, some faction leaders, to put the entire 51 law to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. So we're going to explore the possibilities of committee work and what to do with those draft laws. So I'm going to put this proposal of coalition leaders to a vote right now. We're going to move on to two questions, we're going to hear a report on Ukraine's state budget for 2015. in the 2014 issue of Awake! And the key issue is the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2016, an extremely important framework document. So, your honors, please, I ask you to take your seats, please. Prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. It's given out by the Conciliation Board 51's draft law, which is issued, the order of the day. And I'm going to put them to the vote to put them into the agenda of the day session. I'm stressing that. All the decisions that will be added, we will also include them. Please, Your Honor, take your seats and we will now vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of what has been agreed upon at this time. Please, Your Honor. Ready to vote? Ready? Please vote in favour of including in the agenda the issues that are dealt out, which are agreed upon by the Conciliation Council. Please vote. Please be supportive. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. 51 law. If we go now every and every afternoon, we'll only do this so that the committees can start their work. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. Vote please, colleagues. Vote, colleagues. Vote. Please vote. [[10:43:03]] For 214 Please be prepared again, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please concentrate again and vote again. For inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of draft laws. I'd like to emphasize, 51 laws. If we go separately now, we'll spend a day on it. Please include in the agenda of the day session. Please support all factions and groups. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:43:47]] For 215. 215. None. Not accepted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Fatherland for a minute. One minute is Fatherland. Sobolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. We support the inclusion of 51 laws, and more than that, there are our bills. But we're asking for the four bills that were still in the agenda yesterday, and this is the inclusion in order for the committees to start looking at them, these are the numbers 2682, 2698, 2705 and 2883, this is the index, this is the pension, and this will allow the government to calculate all of this and make a proposal to Parliament how to continue voting. Moreover, the Radical faction, from other factions, supported all these proposals. Therefore, it is a great request that these bills be similarly included only in the agenda of the day’s session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u39	Thank you. I want to comment that yesterday we started working on them at the suggestion and request of factions to learn about these draft laws, and all the factions stressed it. So let's not create artificial barriers here right now. Please, Oleg Lights a minute from the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, I have a great request, let's vote on the bill for inclusion in the agenda, there are a number of very important social bills aimed at raising the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens, at wage and pension indexes, at lowering tariffs, at protecting the country. These are very important laws. To control the gas market, in particular my bill and Yuri Chizmara, to control the quality of the gas, how much it is given, not to pay for air, but for real gas. So these are the laws that Ukrainian citizens are expecting from us today. I call on my colleagues to vote, to support. Volodymyr Borisovich, put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u41	Thank you. I'm making a proposal from the coalition, the one that Oleg Lazko announced about the inclusion in the agenda of the daily laws that are determined by the Conciliation Council and the Coalition. Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Please vote, vote, colleagues. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[10:46:30.]] For 218. 218, no decision taken. Please, Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u42	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, citizens of Ukraine. Unfortunately, what is happening right now is really the face of this Parliament, which constantly includes in the order of the day those bills that very much want representatives of the coalition. They're saying that it's just the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. But with regard to those bills that were registered long before by the representatives of the Opposition Block, which are aimed at a peaceful solution to the conflict, which are aimed at improving the social welfare of citizens, these legislators of the initiative are ignoring at all. I ask you, Your Honor, when you're included in the agenda of the bill, do not vote with a package. This is a gross violation of the Rules. Obedience to the Rules, not by words, but by matters. Please do not violate the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u43	Thank you. We have to work, not break the Rules. I completely agree. My colleagues, once again, these four bills, which have just been announced by the Fatherland, are laws that are now being worked on by all factions of Parliament at the moment. And that was yesterday's agreed decision at a meeting with the unions. You're changing it today. I don't think it's quite right, it's not right. So once again, colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the proposal to include all 51 draft decisions in the agenda of the session. Then there are other suggestions, let's work them out, and after the break or the evening session, let's take another look at the agreed proposals. If not, we will now continue to work without being included in the agenda at all. So please, colleagues, concentrate. Here are all the bills that were agreed yesterday on the Conciliation Council. So please concentrate, and we will vote. Ready? Fellow Members, please take your seats. The inclusion in the agenda of draft laws to be drafted by committees agreed upon by the Conciliation Council meeting, which includes proposals from all factions, including those that are not part of the coalition or groups. Please, Your Honor, please vote, please support. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please, colleagues, please back up. Vote your colleagues. [[10:49:10]] For 224 From now on, we vote again. The proposal, the inclusion in the agenda, we vote. Please vote. Let's learn to work, not talk. Integrating into the agenda, please support all colleagues. [[10:49:29]] For 227 Decision taken. Look, you know, you're turning into a circus something you can't turn. So once again, there's 51 laws, work on committees, express your positions, give positive-negative conclusions. And nobody needs to do that shit. All right, let's keep working, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, we have a day-to-day report on the implementation of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. I'm going to announce on Parliament's website tomorrow who, as I worked on the committees last week, was a committee, and then we're going to look at the desire to work, colleagues. Don't avoid work, I'm asking you very much. Because getting out of the rostrum is, you know, the best thing to do. Please, colleagues, 4. Four laws are now being worked out in groups, working groups that you and I have created together. I'll put him to the vote, what are you going through? Report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Dear colleagues, consideration of the implementation of the budget, the State Budget Act of Ukraine takes place under the procedure of full discussion of article 30 of the Rules. The committee accordingly proposes that the following procedure be considered. Natalia’s Finance Minister’s report, Jaresko’s 5 minutes, answers to question 3, committee’s report, answer to question 2 minutes, report to the head of the Court of Auditors for 5 minutes, reply to question 3 minutes, and statements from MPs and groups, members of the National Police for 24 minutes. So three minutes for each performance. The final word of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for up to 2 minutes, if there's any way to give more words, I hope there's no questions. But I think it might be an acceptable absolute procedure for consideration. Is there no objection? Please allow the committee to consider the matter accordingly. Please, the Finance Minister of Ukraine Natalia Jaresko is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The government presents the State Budget Implementation Report in 2014. Most importantly, what needs to be reported in 2014 – the government has ensured the implementation and financing of all state-guaranteed social and financial obligations, the provision of increased funding for defence and security, the fulfilment of all external and domestic obligations under public debt, and, if you think about it, all during the illegal annexation of Crimea, the external armed aggression in the East of the country and the trade restrictions of the Russian Federation. So I'm just going to give you the general parameters of the macroeconomic situation in the 14th year. Real GDP for the 14th year decreased by 6.8 percent compared to 13 years, industrial output index by 10.1 percent, including the Donetsk region by 31.5 percent, and the Lugansk region by 42 percent. The budget was also influenced by devaluation and inflationary processes. The average exchange rate in the interbank market increased almost twice, to 15.77 dollars per U.S. dollar at the end of the 14th year. Consumer prices rose 24.9 percent by December of the previous year. The tightening of the political and economic situation, the hostilities in the eastern part of the country called for a budget sequester in March, and in July for a redistribution of defence spending. It's about the income part. Despite the difficult economic situation in the 14th year, the budget rose by 5.3 percent to $357.1 billion, including 6.5 percent to $310.7 billion to the general budget. From the new taxes introduced in 2014, the military received 2.5 billion dollars, taxes on the income of individuals in the form of interest — 2.1 billion dollars. The VAT amounted to 50.2 billion dollars, of which $43.3 billion was reimbursed, through the release of VAT-VAT to $6.9 billion. The government's income plans were not implemented in almost all but the company's income tax, slightly over 100 percent before the plan, and the excise tax on imported goods in Ukraine, 101.6 percent before the plan. Unscheduled General Fund income figures 11.3 billion dollars or 3.5 percent. In terms of spending policy, in 2014, under budgetary constraints, the government was carrying out a balanced spending policy aimed at enhancing the security of the state, financing all social benefits and assistance, and other priority expenditure within the existing budgetary resource and ensuring a rigid budget economy. In 2013, the living minimum for all categories of minimum wage and salary was maintained at the level of 2013. Maintaining social standards at one level was driven by the urgent need to increase defence spending, by 84.4 per cent to 27.4 billion dollars, to public order, security and judicial authority by 13.9 per cent to 44.6 billion dollars, and to service debt by 51.5 per cent to 48 billion dollars. Other functions, as a result of the ever-increasing need for defence spending with limited budgetary resources and a severe economy, saw a decline against 2013, or the amount of expenditure was small. The government budget deficit in Ukraine in 2014 was 78.1 billion dollars, 5 per cent of GDP, 10.6 billion dollars less planned, adjusted in accordance with articles 16 and 24 of the State Budget Act for the release of GDP, subsidies from the state budget to local budgets and compensation for the difference in tariffs and non-reimbursement of the added value tax. In 2014, active cooperation with international financial institutions was restored, and external borrowing for 2014 amounted to 95 billion dollars. Including: from the International Monetary Fund, $3 billion at a floating rate of less than 3 percent, macro-financial assistance from the European Union of 1.4 billion euros at a rate of 1.4 percent per year, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 1.3 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u45	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u46	LIBOR floating bet. The issue of foreign government bonds under US guarantees is $1 billion, with an interest rate of 1.8 percent per year. Loans to address urgent socio-economic issues and devaluations have led to an increase in government debt from the beginning of the year to nearly half as much as 947 billion dollars. At the same time, the government debt was received at a level of 77.5 billion dollars less than the adjusted budgeted threshold. To sum up, once again, in spite of the difficult economic, political situation in the country, the armed conflict in the East in 2014 was a decisive step taken by the government to balance the budget, to refocus it on the need for defence with the simultaneous implementation of tax and budgetary reforms. Social obligations have been met, timely payments have been made for debt obligations, cooperation with IMF and other international institutions has been established, which has enabled the State to carry out its functions and the stable functioning of the budget. This resulted in a government deficit and a government debt within the adjusted threshold. The report on the implementation of the budget law for 2014 was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And as a result of the review, proposals were made to address the shortcomings in the planning and implementation of budgetary indicators for the achievement that the government will take appropriate measures. Please approve the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up for the questions. Minister, you can. Sign up for questions, take five minutes for questions and answers. People's deputy Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u48	Can I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Madam Minister, I have a question for you. Please tell me, when will the government submit to Parliament a bill on wage and pension index for budget workers and pensioners? Because today, the question of population income indexation is a very important question. Income is not indexed for several years. We understand all the problems in the country, we understand the extremely difficult economic situation, but at the same time we require the government to look for opportunities to at least minimally increase the income of citizens, so that people can see the state's attention, support from the state, and this is an extremely important step that awaits both Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament. This is an essential decision. And so we ask you to inform now is there any way to index wages and pensions? When will this salary and pension index take place, your income forecast this year, your spending forecast, particularly for defense?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u50	Thank you. First of all, I want to tell you that I also want to increase the indexation as soon as possible. Now in the law that was passed by the Supreme Council, it's on December 1st. If we're able to accelerate, if there's a coming, increasing or decreasing expenditure, then I'm happy to submit to the Supreme Council about speeding up the indexation. But I ask you all to understand, first of all, that until we are done with the restructuring of our debt, unfortunately, we have five percent of GDP going to pay our interest rates on these debts. So we're working so hard on this restructuring because it's one of these possibilities, not many of which exist to reduce the cost. At the same time, I ask you to understand that there are also several laws in this Supreme Council with which there is an increase in expenditure and there is no resource to pay for these increases. I remind you that the law that was passed under judicial reform costs real money that is not invested in the budget, so we have to decide. At the same time, you yourself know that the country's ten national defence and law enforcement structures have recently been provided with an increase in their budget of 17.7 billion dollars. So the government is now looking at all the possibilities, including on the basis of those increases in expenditure and on the basis of what we can reduce to speed it up just to be possible, but not before December 1st, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u51	Thank you, Minister. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u52	Please, Aunty Ostrich, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u53	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u54	Good afternoon! Madam Minister, the test period for the electronic administration of VAT, i.e. the so-called VAT accounts, ends. Since 1 / 07, on July 1, this system either needs to work in real terms with living money, or let us make decisions about delaying the implementation of this system. To that end, we ask you to provide a written report with your signature that the software complex is ready, that the methodological all-indicators, the formulas worked out, that there is no need to make any more changes to the legislation, that this will not lead to a collapse of the economy, that the banking system will withstand the laundering of 20 percent that used to be in the banking system, and that will now be in the treasury. Please provide a written report, as provided for in the December 28 coalition council, as finance minister, as well as a report by the head of the DFS on the readiness of the complete system for implementation. And if not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u56	Thank you. That's exactly what we're going to report. But I can promise you that we are working on the last methodological and programming problems. I'm sure if we look at the final problems that exist now, we solve them as soon as possible, and this system will have no effect on the collapse or deterioration of the banking system. It's going to work on what we're talking about -- increasing revenue. We have the opportunity to increase revenue only because of the fight against tax pits that. One pit that is being closed by these electronic VAT with a customs-trafficking fight. And these are our single possibilities, and I ask you to understand that this is an electronic VAT -- this is the first real closure of that tax pit that can bring us an increase in revenue, but we're going to give the report absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u58	Oleg Berezuk please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u59	Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u60	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your honest and devoted work. But there are questions about the situation. Today, wages for teachers and doctors in the regions are included in the inflation index. And you know it. As a result. But it's not budgeted. As a result, in the cities and villages of the country, there is a deficit in the salaries of teachers and doctors. In short, government workers. What will the Ministry of Finance do by the end of the year to cover this deficit? So far, we're getting answers from your employees that this is being translated into local budgets. It's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u61	I'll ask Roman Kachure. Don't hear it, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u62	Roman Kachure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u63	Hear? The Budget Act provides that the indexation is carried out in a special order. To date, this order is designed by the Ministry of Social Policy and is being prepared for consideration at the Cabinet of Ministers. Until the adoption of a special order, local budgets can carry out such an index within their own resources and finance them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u64	I'll remind you. I'm sorry, I'll remind you that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm answering you. Mrs. Cugel! I'm answering you. Local budgets today have 35 more than planned incomes in five months of this year. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Minister. Colleagues, I want to remind you of the question. We are discussing the 2014 budget report. Thank you. Please take your seat. Question time is up. Vassil Amelchenko, first deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u66	Basil Amelchenko, Oleg Lacha Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 20 May, with the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, reviewed the government report on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2014 and the relevant conclusions of the Court of Auditors. As a result of the committee's work, attention is drawn to the fact that the negative economic situation and the worsening of the situation in the monetary and credit market have had a negative impact on the implementation of the State budget. In view of what, during the reporting period, 11 laws have been passed on changes to the State Budget, which have significantly reduced the planned rates. One, even taking into account the decline in income, is under 11 billion dollars in revenue from the General Fund of the State Budget. As of January 1, this year, the government’s tax debt amounted to nearly 21 billion dollars and increased 2 times over the past year, with over 3 billion dollars of tax debt being written off. Therefore, one of the government’s top priorities is to step up the reduction of the tax debt by increasing the control over the repayment of decommissioned and deferred amounts and limiting the annual write-offs of the tax debt. According to the State budget, the deficit accounted for almost 5 percent of GDP. From the privatization of state property to the State budget, only 500,000 dollars or less than 3 per cent of the approved rate were recovered, offset by corresponding increases in government borrowing. As a result of the devaluation of the monetary and mainly debt financing of the government deficit last year, debt has increased rapidly, the total government and guaranteed government debt amounted to more than 1 trillion dollars or 70 per cent of GDP at the 60 per cent threshold established by the Budget Code. Therefore, according to article 18 of this Code, the government must submit to the Supreme Council a plan of action to bring the total amount of debt into line with the established requirements and to approve the strategy of government debt management. Short on expenses. According to the general fund, less than 13 billion dollars have been allocated, and the protection of the articles is almost complete. I ask you to finish, Vladimir Borisovich. In particular, the Pension Fund is channelled to the extent that it provides for the payment of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u67	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u68	Yes. Given the large amounts of expenditure to strong structures in 2014-2015, effective monitoring of the targeted and efficient use of funds should be ensured. Under budgetary constraints, receivables continued to increase at the expense of the state budget. In addition, the general fund has increased its long-term debt. The government therefore needs to take measures to settle these issues by strengthening the supervision of financial discipline by budget managers. Do not allow the previous payment to be extended and consider reducing the periods of advance payments. In the process of processing a government report taking into account the findings of the Court of Auditors, the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u69	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u70	a new draft regulation on the 2514 report has been prepared. Unlike the government's draft, the decree is designed not only to approve the Cabinet's report today, but also to entrust the government with resolving the problems and improving budget management. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Please ask questions. Vasil Vasilovich, stay in the rostrum, there will be questions for you. Please, five minutes to ask. Please sign up. Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. Please, Ivan Grigorovich. Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u72	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Minister of Finance! Honorable Deputy Head of the Committee! Please tell me, on the agrarian committee, we've discussed abuse issues, such as the state-owned food and grain corporation, such as Ukrispirt. Today, there is a non-return of currency, such as $132 million, $2 billion. Please tell us, in the 2014 budget implementation report, is there a deficit of 2 billion dollars in the state budget? And in general, were questions raised by Mr. Gordienko about the abuse of 7 billion and the under-receiving of Ukraine's budget? I want to get a direct answer because direct costs are spent at 132 million on the State Food and Grain Corporation account and not returned to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u73	They're not included, they're not part of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Not enough, I'm going to say that today we have a remainder of the unreturned local budgets on medium-term loans over the last nine billion years. I understand. In connection with the 15th year of the new system of inter-budget relations, the issue of debt settlement also needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u77	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u78	Thank you. I have a question together, like Mrs. Natale's Minister of Finance, more likely addressed to you. You made a statement on the implementation of the State budget for 2014. I've analyzed this report based on the official data of the State Department. I would like to say that the withdrawal of the legislative initiative by the representatives of the coalition, in particular your Government, on the taxation of pensions, the State budget has received 5.5 million bracelets, totals. I have a question. Will you cancel this antisocial tax? And the second question. You're talking about a lack of funds. Two weeks ago, a bill was voted in the Supreme Council Hall, which exempts non-residents of foreign government loans from income tax, which is 2 and a half billion grevens. I was speaking from the rostrum. You're talking about cash shortages, you're freeing foreign investors, and you're not. Retired, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u79	Retired. No, we don't intend to change that. Pensions that have been changed are in the first issue, they're special pensions, and all the changes we've made in pension policy is improving justice for the people as a whole. These were not fiscal changes as you say. You're right, not for fiscal purposes, but for justice in the system you took out and reduced special pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. Aboudulin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u81	Please pass the word Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u82	Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, the "Fatherland" faction is outraged by this rule of law when it comes to the implementation of the State Budget, because the fluctuations of the Minister of Finance don't mean anything for five minutes, just like the three-minute response of the deputy head of the committee. But we have a specific question. There are unaccounted for state budget funds that the budget has received. These are the costs of selling a 3G license. These are huge costs, so they're going to be calculated in the state budget and where they're going to be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you that we're looking at the 2014 report, and we were selling 3G licenses in 2015, in the current year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u84	Thank you. Colleagues, we're looking at it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which was passed by a committee of profiles.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u85	As for the Pension Fund, we have a note by the Budget Committee, unfortunately today the debt of the Pension Fund for loans from the Single Treasury Account is born, and at the end of the year it was more than 50 billion dollars, and the solution to this problem requires a systematic solution, a balanced budget of the Pension Fund. And I think it's the government's job to balance this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u87	The Honourable Reporter and the Honourable Minister of Finance! What is your position on the 50 billion dollar debt of the Treasury Pension Fund, that is, how do you think you have to solve this issue? Because there's some absurdity: even if the Pension Fund starts making this money, they're actually all going to pay off this 50-billion-dollar debt that's accumulated and we understand that for years. And the second question is, have you reconsidered your position on 15 percent of the pension tax for working retirees, or should you not replace it with at least a minimum raise in the taxation of dividends that, unfortunately, everyone is trying to show without showing real pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u88	Thank you. In general, the Ministry of Finance, along with the factions of the coalition, together with the members of the most important committees, is currently working on tax reform as a whole, to review the whole scheme of our taxes. Including taxes, passive income, and, in general, the EU's only social contribution. And in general, as we now can not increase the pressure on business and on the citizens who work and pay their taxes legally, but reduce the shadow economy and force, and encourage everyone to participate in the tax system that we have. So now I'm not ready to say whether I'm ready to change dividends or not, because we're looking at it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u90	I hope that all these proposals relating to the balance of the Pension Fund will be considered by the committee and, hopefully, we will make the right decision in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Please take your seat, time is up. I invite you to speak to the head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine, Roman Mikolaiovich Magutu, scheduled for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, are invited! The Court of Auditors has carried out an analysis of the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2014. The implementation of the state budget in 2014 took place under extremely difficult economic conditions, both due to military action in the East and to a significant deterioration in external trade conditions and a reduction in investment and credit resources. Last year the actual decline in real gross domestic product was 2.3 times higher than the projected budget figure. It has become the main factor in the lack of planned revenue of 21 billion dollars in 2014 for the government budget. At the same time, as a result of control measures for the administration of excise taxes on tobacco, tobacco products, nadra charges, corporate taxes, and alcohol, the Court of Auditors has made proposals to increase the revenue of the state budget, some of which have already been implemented. In particular, as a result of the increase in the rate of excise duty on a cigarette without a filter, additional revenues will amount to over half a billion dollars per year. Last year, according to the government’s initiative, the practice of 2004 and 2010 has been restored to pay off the fiscal debt for the added value of its domestic government debt bonds. However, according to the Accounting Board’s conclusion on the implementation of the State budget in the first half of 2014, the repayment of the budget debt for the added tax only led to a temporary reduction in its volume. By the end of 2014, the balance of the unpaid tax paid to the taxpayers exceeded the starting point of the year by 1.9 times. The next one demonstrated the inability to provide timely tax compensation to the taxpayers for the added value without reforming its administration. The State budget was implemented in 2014 in the context of government-led measures for the economic use of budgetary resources and the reduction of government budget expenditure. The bulk of the government’s budget expenditure focused on public debt, defence, and social benefits. The deficit expenditure of the Pension Fund decreased compared to 2013, but the total amount of funds involved from a single treasury account to cover temporary cash breaks exceeded 50 billion dollars. The need to finance government budget deficits, to pay off government debt, to support the activities of Naftogaz Ukrainian National Shareholders, the fund to guarantee the investments of individuals, banks, to reimburse the value added tax needed substantial financial resources, which made public loans possible. Government loans that year accounted for nearly half of all government budgets. The government's expectation of the government's coming into the state budget in 2014 was not justified by 17 billion dollars from the privatization of state property. What the Court of Auditors noted in the conclusion of the implementation of the State budget in the first half of 2014. At the end of the year, at the initiative of the government, the planned rate was reduced to the sum of the actual arrivals of half a billion dollars, with corresponding increases in government borrowing. This is a high probability in the current year. In 2014, government debt nearly doubled, total government guaranteed debt rising to 0.1 trillion dollars, and it accounted for 70.3 percent of GDP. A significant factor in the increase in debt and its expenditure last year in terms of devaluation of foreign currencies has been the significant netting of government and guaranteed debt, both nominated and in foreign currency, which has increased to 61.7 percent. This has remained relevant in the first quarter of this year. Ensuring financial stability and the independence of local budgets is a key task of the State’s budgetary policy. However, the expansion in 2014 of the tax base, which is included in local budgets, did not lead to a significant increase in their income. The centralization of budgetary resources has increased. Transfers from the state budget amounted to 56.4 percent of the local budget. The total debt of local budgets has increased.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u93	One minute, and finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u94	4 billion dollars. In its activities, the Chambers of Auditors focused not only on the efficiency of the use of public budget funds, but also on the search for available reserves and the increase in revenues from improving the administration of excise taxes, rents, the use of overheads, revenues from the conduct of the gaming business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let's take five minutes to ask. Please prepare to write. Get ready to record, five minutes to question. Please log in. Please sign in. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u96	Once again, I would like to point out that the 2014 budget discussion in this mode is totally unacceptable, and despite the fact that it seems that this is the rules proposed by the profiling committee. I have a specific, practical question and please tell me, or you, or the minister of finance, I don't care who calculated the excess of income over the expenditures of the National Bank of Ukraine, that is how much the National Bank had to recalculate income into the budget was calculated, and how much the actual cost was counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u97	Thank you for your attention. Thank you for asking. Regarding the Court of Auditors' conclusion on the implementation of the state budget, and you rightly said that the question you're asking is more about the Minister of Finance. So let's say I'm ready to answer the questions that relate directly to the activities of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u98	Please, Minister of Finance Natalia Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u99	Please clarify this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u100	There was a question, what was the estimated amount of over-expenditure over the costs of the National Bank for the recalculation into the state budget in 2014 and how much, in fact, the National Bank has accounted for the state budget for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u101	In 2015, you mean.?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u102	Last year, the National Bank counted 22.8 billion dollars, according to the plan and the audit report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u104	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for both the head of the Court of Auditors and the Minister of Finance. Mrs. Natalie, you've been looking into the issue of defaulting on midterm loans to local government authorities. The "Fatherland" faction has registered the bill. We have cancelled the debt by lying to hundreds of billions of dollars, and the authorities of local self-government cannot cancel the debt they took to the state to cover their expenses. So what I'm asking is, are you looking at the possibility of cancelling and cancelling this debt to local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u105	There's a problem, there's another problem. The systemic problem is that low energy bills, including fines and pennies, are involved. The tariffs are disregarded, and the source for these fines and pennies, according to legislation, is not defined today. Therefore, the systemic problem of the accumulation of this debt and the absence of a source of its coverage should be regulated by making changes to the relevant legislation. As long as we don't cover up this situation, NAC Naftogaz, gas companies, charge fines, pennies, and consumers don't have a source of coverage, and they don't include this source in the tariff, the debt accumulation system will arise every year, and every year we'll talk about it in this room. Therefore, the request, including in the hall, to consider the matter systematically and to make changes that are in line with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u106	Paul Kishkar, "self-help," question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u107	I have the same question with Mrs. Jaresko as I was in principle. When are we finally going to legalize the gaming business and the income from it will still come to the development of sport, culture and film? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u108	Colleagues, please respond to the game business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u109	We are currently working on the Tax Reform Task Force and we are working on proposals for tax reform. We plan to submit a new Tax Code to the Supreme Council by September 1st, and for now, business, community and professional organizations are looking for an adequate model to encourage business to come out of the shadows, to be attractive in terms of investment attractiveness, and to balance the interests of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u111	I'm sorry, I'd like to add that we're going to create a task force in the near future in the gaming business to get this business out of the shadows that we know is banned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u112	Igor Nasalik, please, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u113	First question to the minister. The income of the first basket you talked about, which increased by 35 percent, is overestimated, because it also includes a special fund that has never been counted before. And secondly, the first basket has been placed in preschool facilities, and no one has revoked the index ruling. Most of these incomes go to these expenses, and the Ministry of Finance wanted to take them into account. And secondly, to Igor Umanski, I want to support Ivchenk, who spoke earlier, about medium-term loans. Medium-term loans are not the problems of local budgets, they are the estimates of the Ministry of Finance of the past years in terms of the real PDF and PDF that have come. Therefore, a huge request is made to consider the cancellation and cancellation of midterm loans from the city’s budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u114	Thank you for asking. On the first part Roman already answered, here we are, in fact, looking for a way to solve this with the University of Minnesota. And by midterm loans, you know, we changed the Budget Code, and the midterm loans on January 1st should be written off. In line with the decisions made in the middle of the year, we will make appropriate changes and propose a source for which we have to write down these loans. Of course, in the new system of inter-budget relations, when this institution, in principle, is gone and there is no source in the local budgets in principle. These loans have to be written off and it's already our job to make proposals at the expense of what source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u116	I have a question to the head of the Court of Auditors, please tell me, what is the loan payable on subsidies for socio-economic development that is general and confirmed, and what has the government done in this regard to avoid shifting its uncontrolledness and failure to carry out budgetary assignments to local self-government authorities? Because it's a futile thing for the government to do, and you'll get the right letters from the government for that. And problems arise on the spot, because jobs are done, wages are not paid, and the prosecutor's office is functioning accordingly, and no one is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u118	According to state - budget subsidies, as noted in the presentation, unfortunately, they increased in the past year. This question was constantly analyzed by the Court of Auditors, and these questions were addressed directly in the report and provided directly in the report of the Court of Auditors, which is discussed here. In 2014, direct recalculation of funds from the central level was ensured to account for all of the government’s general budget’s revenues, including 10 billion 458.8 million dollars or 17.2 percent of the grant. In the eastern regions, this figure was 39.35 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Halasyuk. Victor Halasyuk, last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u120	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Dear Mrs. Natalia, you know that a faction of the Radical Party more than six months ago was initiated with regard to the restructuring of government debt. So you have our full support in the talks. I ask you to inform us now about the current status of these negotiations. What amount do you see being released from the partial write-off of the holding, the freezing of interest on it, and how do you see in principle the allocation of these funds to wage and pension indexes, the raising of social standards in Ukraine on one hand, and, on the other hand, to the restoration of investments in the Ukrainian industry, to the implementation of state-private partnership projects, to the reconstruction of domestic production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u121	Thank you. Negotiations continue, every day we conduct these negotiations with our private commercial creditors on that perimeter of commitments that are contained in the Cabinet of Ministers' decree. The amount to be restructured is over $23 billion of our external bonds. Our goals, our financial targets from restructuring, three. First. Over the course of four years, reduce the balance of payments pressure of $15.3 billion. This $15.3 I can't tell you what it's going to be like this year and the next year, because we haven't reached that point in our negotiations. So I can't tell you what the component is to reduce the interest payments on depreciation, I can't tell you. In general, once again, the goal of $11.3 billion will reduce the payment pressure to a balance of payments over a period of 4 years. The second goal is to end this programme with the IMF, i.e. after 4 years to get the ratio of debt to GDP not more than 71 percent. And the third goal is that after these four years our payments, our need to finance these debts was no more than an average of 10 percent of GDP per year. Until we figure it out, I can't tell you what it's going to be like this year and next year, but I firmly support, I firmly hold our position. We are supported by both the International Monetary Fund and all of our Great Seven partners and very many international economists. So all the criticism about our situation, it's completely out of place. In addition to that, I want to tell you that if we can't get our creditors to the table at the table. A rational approach to these three goals, then obviously we'll take into account the weight that you gave us in the Cabinet of Ministers -- whether to suspend payments or not. And once again, I want to emphasize that stopping payments is not a terrible thing, and it will in no way stop the program with the International Monetary Fund, no. There will be no great pressure on either the population or the Ukrainian banking system. Because these external bonds don't lie in our domestic Ukrainian banks, it's not Cyprus, it's not the situation that's been in other countries. These external bonds are abroad or in the hands of private individuals, but not in our banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. We're still scheduled for factions. Are you insisting on recording the factions? Please, from factions, from groups, two minutes. Is it accepted? Please, two minutes from the factions and groups. Radical Party, People's Deputy Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Amelchenka Vasili Vasilievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u124	Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u125	Basil Amelchenko, Oleg Lacha Radical Party. Dear colleagues! The Radical Party will support it. The Radical Party faction is this report. Given that we are 14th year only in February, the government started to fulfil its responsibilities, this was planned in the 13th year, and so I think we have to fully support the government today and the next question when we consider the 16th year budget resolution, I think we will necessarily take into account all the proposals of the deputies that are coming, all the factions that are coming, and we will finally accept the budget, firstly, in time; and secondly, we will make the conclusions that will be conducive to the economy for its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u126	Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u127	Please, Dobrenkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u128	Long, faction of the Opposition Block. The opposition bloc, of course, will not maintain a report on the implementation of the State budget for the past year, as this report is based on the unpopular, short-sighted and unthinkable policies of the current Government, which are implemented as budget, monetary and tax reforms. What have we been up to? What execution of the State budget last year do we have? First of all, it's a pension tax, which I mentioned earlier. The antisocial norm, which does not equalize pensioners in their welfare, is at their vital level, but in fact takes people from what they have rightly earned for many years. Second, it is a significant level of public debt. Ms. Finance Minister said that their main objective was to achieve a government debt ratio of 71 per cent of GDP. At the end of 2013, the ratio of GDP to government debt was 35 per cent. In fact, we mean almost double the public debt and the debt guaranteed by the State. What do we mean by this report? This report, in particular, aims to demonstrate the extent to which tax policies are not being implemented today. It is aimed at stifling the business that is carried out in the form of advance income tax contributions. Profit tax fell by almost 50 per cent compared to previous years. This report shows a decrease in VAT tax revenues, an increase in VAT outstanding debt. In fact, the decrease in the revenue of the State budget under excise duty, in the income tax of individuals. In fact, this is not only because of the deterioration of the economic situation, but also because of too much fiscal tax system, which naturally needs to be fundamentally changed, not to join the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u129	Litwin, "The will of the people," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u130	Your Honor, Madam Minister! This is the kind of bureaucratic procedure that's always been, and judging from what's going on today, it's going on. Whether a positive decision by the Supreme Council on the report will be taken has absolutely no meaning. Whether the budget revolution will be supported, the resolution, it doesn't matter at all, because the government will introduce such a budget, depending on the conditions that will be set up on September 15th. But I think, given the indifference of the Supreme Council to this Ukrainian question, it would be helpful, Madam Minister, to have such a report in one of the regional cultural houses, I'm willing to arrange for you to give people an answer to the question that you've conducted with the involvement of foreign experts, obviously paid them a small amount of money. And you would have to hire an audit to show if a person could live on that pension, the salary that is offered and the government is not going to index. I'm not talking about the debt problem anymore, it's transferred to local budgets. I'm not saying that there's no serious conversation anymore, and what will be the structure of the organization of the country's life, which will be the administrative and territorial system, which will be with socio-economic institutions. Schools are being cut short now, people are learning about it only from the district newspapers. Administrative-territorial reform reminds us of what was at the time of the collectiveization, you want not to unite you should, but they say that completely on voluntary principles and taking people's minds into account. We need to stop this avoluntarianism and have a serious conversation in the country, which is what is going to happen, what needs to be done. And these formal reports are completely useless to anyone, and what's more, they're made so you know how to run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Kugel, Fatherland. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u132	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! You know, we're looking at a really important document that's despised in this session room. I'm first-elected as a member of the Supreme Council and I hear that this document actually has nothing to do with it, and that's exactly how it needs to be treated. In fact, the State Budget Implementation Report itself is its main marker of the government's effective functioning or not effective. And after the state budget implementation report, we should be here in the room looking at the next issue of supporting the government or resigning it. Today we will consider this document and really no matter what decision we make, the government will continue to work. And what we do in a report, even as a parliament, and we work in a parliamentary republic, and we in a report find that the government's budget for the past year is not executed in terms of income or expenditure. 11 times the Supreme Council of Ukraine made changes to the budget, to the income and expenditure portion, because the government could not implement the state budget. As a result of the state budget, our budget deficits have increased considerably, and our debt to the state has increased. And at the same time, I would like to say that in the last year, throughout the year, the government has not made any proposals and no indexations of pensions or wages or social standards have been carried out. In fact, if proposed, what should such a decision be proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I think we should. Because we've got all the flaws that were made in the implementation of the State Budget. But in fact, as a parliament, we should not have approved this report, but we should have taken it to the knowledge, given it, to tell the government what we need to do so as not to make mistakes in this current year and move on, considering the budgetary resolution. So I'm here to take this report to heart, not to back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u133	Kishkar's handing it over to Berezuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen! Successful are those who, with a critical view of life, are able to give thanks. I want to tell you that the Minister of Finance has taken the country into the hands of war and an incredible economic and financial upheaval. And so, no matter what the difficulty is, no matter what the contradictions, the perspectives on the tools of execution. Mrs. Jaresko, we would like to thank you on behalf of the Self-Help and Parliament faction for your dedicated, honest, transparent work. You've brought a new style of government management. The style of openness and honesty, that's what you get. But we hope that you will endure, and together with us, in an honest, transparent struggle and work we will go on to build effective governance in this country. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, group speeches, factions are over. There is a proposal to move to a vote on the outcome of the discussion. I would like to remind you that the matter has been dealt with accordingly by a professional committee, that the ruling has been finalized, and I will now put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're getting ready to vote. We heard Natalia Jaresko’s report. I can give you a few minutes to finish. All of it. Okay. Dear colleagues, we have discussed with you the report, the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2014 State Budget. A report by the finance minister of Ukraine, a joint report by the committee of profile that addressed the issue and was prepared for Parliament’s consideration, as well as a report by the head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. As a result of this matter being dealt with in a profile committee, a decision that I will now put to the vote has been made for our consideration. Dear colleagues, the draft of the ruling worked by the committee (registration number 2514). Please prepare to vote for this order, Your Honor. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Please proceed to the vote for the ruling (registration number 2514-d) Budget Committee, distinguished colleagues. Please prepare, we vote in favour of approval of the 2514th ruling as a result of the discussion of the budget report on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2014 Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:52:05]] For 211 The factions. A decree has not been given, and according to the Rules we can take it to the known. There's an offer to return, well, respectable colleagues, no objection, concentrate, please. There is a proposal for Ukrainian national deputies to return to the ruling. Please, colleagues, distinguished colleagues, please prepare. We vote in favour of returning to the ruling on the Ukrainian implementation report "On Ukraine's State Budget 2014". Ready? We vote in favour of a return to the ruling. For your return, Your Honor, I ask you to vote for your return. [[11:53:19]] For 221 Oleg Lazko didn't make it, please. We're voting on the return proposal again, please. Once again, the offer is still being determined. Please come back. To return. If we fail to vote, we must respect the opinion of the Ukrainian national deputies and their right to vote. [[11:53:55]] For 219 None. Dear colleagues! There is a suggestion to take this report to heart and move on to the next issue of the order of the day. Is there no objection? Thank you. Report received. Dear colleagues! The next question is about the basic thrusts of budgetary policy for the 16th year and the Rules require me to announce a 30-minute break. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, dear colleagues, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. At 12 o'clock 30 minutes, we're continuing our work on the basic thrusts of budgetary policy for the 16th year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u136	Dear fellow national MPs, we take our seats, we continue our work. Please. Dear colleagues, I have received a call from two factions -- the Radical Party factions and the People's Front factions -- about the announcement of the break, but at the same time there is a request to replace the break, according to regulations. 3 minutes, Oleg Lazko, please, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! I want to draw your attention to the corruption done by the Minister of Ecology, Igor Shevchenk. On June 8, 2015, Ukraine was hit by a major environmental disaster. Where was the Minister of Ecology, Shevchenko? Outside the country, in Nice, he was cooled off, on vacation, and in which he went to things without knowledge, and without the Prime Minister's permission, although the legislation provides that members of the Cabinet of Ministers are not allowed to go abroad without permission. When I made that statement yesterday, Mr. Shevchenko said I was lying. Well, then I'm pointing out: on 6.06.2015, Mr. Shevchenko took off from Julian on a private plane registered in Turkey, on a diplomatic passport, returned to Ukraine with an 8-number private plane, but returned to Žuljan from Nice, i.e. he left Kiev for Dresden, and then returned to Kiev from Nice, returned to another plane, his number PHARO, owner of this plane, the national deputy of Ukraine, our colleague Onishtenko. I have a question to ask a colleague of the National Deputy Oneshchenka: How did the Minister of Ecology of Shevchenko fly on your private plane from Nice to Kiev, who paid for this plane? I have a question to the Attorney General of Ukraine, more specifically, that I should violate criminal conduct on the basis of the fact that the Minister of Ecology has committed corruption. Because who doesn't know, the National Deputy Oneshchenko is involved in the gas sector in Ukraine. The gas sector is the sphere of responsibility of the minister of ecology, that is, the direct corruption between Oneshchenk and Shevchenk. Therefore, I demand that the Attorney General file a criminal case, immediately arrest Shevchenk, bring him to justice and thus follow the President's instructions on the real fight against corruption. Moreover, I am requesting the Prime Minister of Ukraine to submit an application to the Supreme Council immediately for the release of Igor Shevchenk as Minister of Ecology. A man who flies around Monaco in the Nietzsche at a time when an environmental disaster in Ukraine killed five Ukrainian citizens, including nineteen - year - old boys, has no right to assume the position of minister of ecology. Get the fuck out of my position!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u138	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u139	In addition, I want to say that the healthy forces of Parliament, the People's Front faction, have begun to investigate corruption rings, including the gentleman we've heard of. In exchange, we've heard from all the Inters, Schusters and other media outlets, the show means that it's like someone stole Kurchenk's oil products and burned them on Vasilk's oil base. Dear friends, I have registered the 2011 Bill, which provides for the transfer to state-owned enterprises of arrested petroleum products for the needs of the Ministry of Defence outside the budget. And our faction requires that it be put into the agenda now, through the committee and vote on Thursday as a basis and as a whole. Once again, I want to emphasize to these screamers, who for the money of the oligarchs are doing this smoke screen, all your corruption schemes and all your corruption connections will be investigated. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u140	I ask the apparatus, please work out this draft law on compliance with the Rules and accordingly form a submission from the faction on the day-to-day review. When this decision is made, I will put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Draft Decision on the Main Directions of Budget Policy 2016. Appropriately, the committee proposes the following procedure for consideration: a report by the Minister of Finance, within 10 minutes, answers to questions, within 5 minutes, the committee's report, within 5 minutes, questions, within 5 minutes, statements from MPs and groups, up to 2 minutes, respectively. All of this is offered about an hour’s notice. There is a proposal to agree with the way in which this matter has been dealt with. an order that has been processed by a profile committee and is made available for consideration by MPs. Is there no objection? None. We're working. I invite you to the rostrum for the report on the draft regulation "On the Main Directions of Budget Policy 2016" by Ukrainian Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The government is presenting to you a draft of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2016, which has been developed by the Committee on Budget Affairs, taking into account the proposals made by the Committees of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies, factions and groups. The document is based on software and strategic documents. It's a program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Coalition Agreement and the "Ukraine-2020" strategy. The document is also based on cooperation programmes with the International Monetary Fund and other international financial organizations. The main directions of budgetary policy for 2016 have been developed to implement Article 33 of the Budget Code, which sets out the guidelines for the functioning of the public finance system for the following year 2016. First of all, let me outline the key approaches that we're going to take in budgetary policy in the 16th year. This is an increase in the income portion of the budget through an expansion of the tax base, a fight against optimization and non-payment of taxes, border smuggling, and a new culture of taxation among citizens and businesses. The other one. This is a reduction in the cost of maintaining state appliances and other non-priority expenditure to channel the resource to the most vulnerable segments of the population, to pay them utility subsidies and social assistance, and other full-time payments. Third. The introduction of the tax system from January 1st, 16th, to simplify the payment of taxes and then pursues the goal of inspiring business, investing and creating new jobs in Ukraine. Four. Providing the necessary level of funding for defence and security, as the President stressed at last session during his annual letter to Parliament. Next. Continued optimisation in the fields of education and medicine, and continued fiscal decentralization, transferring increased resources to places closer to people, but at the same time increasing the responsibility of local administrations. The 2016 budget resolution takes into account the forecast of Ukraine's main macroeconomic development indicators for 2016 by scenario, which, inter alia, defines nominal GDP of 2 trillion 106 billion. Real GDP growth rate - 2 percent, consumer price index, December to December, 9 percent, producer price index - 12 percent, U.S. dollar exchange rate on average for 22 and a half bracelets. These macroeconomic indicators will be refined to take into account the results of the first half of the 15th year. The key objectives of budgetary policy for the 16th year are to determine whether the government deficit is within 3 percent of GDP. The share of the reallocation of GDP through the consolidated budget is not higher than is included in the 2015 State Budget. Today, that's 33 and a half percent. Reducing the debt burden on the economy, including through financial support from Ukraine's international partners, which will allow the repayment of debts by replacing existing loans for cheaper loans with a longer repayment period. This is due to the restructuring of government debt, which will help to reduce payments associated with its service in the coming years. In the social sphere, support for citizens at this critical time will be a priority of budgetary policy in 2016. At the same time, the government will carry out this policy responsibly, without increasing pressure on public finances. In particular, an increase in the minimum wage and the employee’s salary will take place at an economically sound level. And the setting of the minimum of living and its level of security will be based on the rate of growth in the real economy. The decentralization of budget management and increased autonomy of local self-government will continue in the areas of interaction with regions to ensure their sustainable economic development. In particular, the authorities of the local self - government level will be delegated to provide basic services. The other one. Changes in approaches to the implementation of sectoral policy will be foreseen. And the third, additional own resources of the local budgets derived from the implementation of inter-budget reform will be directed towards responsibilities for cultural institutions, the training of workers in PTUs and other educational institutions, as well as the training of personnel in state higher education institutions and to the second levels of accreditation. In addition, in 2016, public policy will focus on further deregulation, reducing the fiscal burden of Kabmin, administrative pressure, and implementing reforms in all areas. Tax policy priorities in 2016 will be: improving the administration of VAT, creating a tax control system depending on the degree of risk of taxpayers' activities, creating a new culture of taxation among citizens and businesses, adapting Ukraine's tax legislation to EU legislation, reducing tax barriers to foreign investment and preventing tax evasion on income tax and capital taxes, and further improving tax legislation. Also in the preparation of the main thrusts of budget policy for the 16th year, proposals for the project were processed by the joint representative body of the national representative Union trade unions, some of which were included in the budget resolution. In particular, it has been decided that the placing of government orders for the production of the products necessary to support safety and security should take place mainly in state enterprises. The 16th-year budget policy should provide for the continuation of measures and projects aimed at reducing natural gas consumption in economics, housing and utilities and the population. The 16th-year budget policy should be designed to stimulate the development of the domestic industry. Based on internal and external factors that have a significant impact on Ukraine's economy, we have to say that the 16th year budget will be quite complex. The main challenges in the formulation of the 16th year State Budget project are the changes to legislation registered in the Supreme Council, which reduces the income portion of the budget, and which creates difficulties in determining the projected amount of income. At the same time, Ukraine committed itself to reducing the government budget deficit. The question of forecasting the extent and fulfilment of all sovereign debt obligations in view of the ongoing process of restructuring the Ukrainian debt. The need for further increases in population subsidies to compensate for the increase in tariffs and the need to balance the Pension Fund with the reform of the EU. Under such conditions, without effective reforms in individual sectors of the economy, we will not be able to finance fully even those measures aimed at meeting the requirements of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance, along with the National Deputies, the Committees of the Supreme Council, factions, and groups, have handled nearly two hundred proposals effectively, most of them supported by Minfin. Thus, the 16th-year budget base project should be built on new principles that will ensure the recovery of Ukraine's state finances, increased assistance to Ukrainian citizens in critical times, and an increase in the country's investment attractiveness. At its meeting on May 3, 15, the Budget Committee approved the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2016, taking into account the proposals made by the National Deputies, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, factions and groups. Please support the specified draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take five minutes to ask questions. Please sign up for a question to the Minister of Finance. Please. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u143	Please pass the word to your owner.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u144	Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u145	Dear Natalia Ivanovna! You noted in your statement that you were building your speech based on 33 articles of the Codex Budget. But you gave several figures without giving the basic figures required by article 33. In particular, paragraph 2 of part four of article 33 requires that you name a marginal amount of government debt, please name it. The limit of State guarantees, please name it. The minimum wage for the 16th year, please name it. At the minimum, please give him a name and level of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u146	As for the debts, I've already told you that until I'm done with our restructurings, I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u147	I'm not talking about reform? I'm talking about restructuring negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u148	I can't until we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u151	National MP Jeremeyev, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u152	Mrs. Natalie, in your speech today, you said that since January 1, the Cabinet of Ministers is planning to reduce or optimize taxes in order to create conditions attractive to them. business minds for the climate, for investors and everything like that. I have a simple question. Why not make 1 January or 1 July, for example? What are the reasons? Why can't taxes be optimized today? I want to say one more word. Give an answer if possible. A few weeks ago, we voted on the Kugel Act, where we removed nearly 36 permits to facilitate business. The factions of the coalition failed this law. Today, there are two laws in place to increase the licensing of various forms of work. It seems to me that desire and particular things are different from real things here. And the second question. Question three. We're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u153	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u154	You're talking about the government going back to society, to people, to the social problems of people. Since July 1, the government has promised to raise the minimum wage and pensions, to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u155	First question about taxes. We're not ready for a new tax program yet. We've been working on this for two or three months, but we're not done yet. Plus, I'll tell you the truth, I'm not an expert in the Ukrainian legal system, I'm telling you the truth. But I was told that it is impossible to change over the course of a year. That is, if we're going to introduce a new Tax Code, a new tax reform that needs to be done on January 1. But anyway, we're getting ready to go after our August vacation, that is, in September, the whole tax reform. We'll bring it in to make it effective as of January 1. The other one. Deregulation. I'm sorry, I don't know what's been introduced and what's in the agenda for deregulation is not my piece of work, sorry. I can only say that in Kabmin we support all the deregulation that we can bring to the Supreme Council. Question three. We didn't promise to raise, we promised to review it from July 1. That's what we're gonna do. I said earlier, and I'm now confirming again, we're going to look for all the possibilities to accelerate the indexation process from December 1st, which is in the budget, to a faster date. But as yet we haven't found it, I haven't found the resource. And please all understand that printing money, increasing deficits now, creates more inflation than we have today. But inflation eats up any increase that can be made. So we have to increase these pensions and the minimum wage, and all of these juices. The standards are due to the money that exists in the budget, not the money that we're going to print and that's just going to cancel the inflationary processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u157	I give the word to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u158	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u159	Madam Minister, you spoke in your speech about taxing investment as a priority of budgetary policy in 2016. So today, we're getting information that big foreign investment companies, and I'm talking about, first of all, the tobacco industry, are closing down. Why? Because we've introduced an additional import congregation, so called 5-10 percent, that makes the product that's produced in Ukraine, not competitive compared to the same product that's produced in Belarus, Moldova and other neighbouring countries. The second painful question I want to raise is the RRO. Today, you know that as of July 1, a mandatory RRO is being introduced for third - group simplified subjects. At the same time, the tax company and Minfin did not carry out a proper information campaign, as today’s markets believe that the RROs will apply to them. We need to make every effort right now to let people know what's in the markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u160	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u161	Trade in containers, pavilions and so on in RRO markets isn't going to happen, or we're going to have a third tax Majdan here with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u162	As for the tobacco and the temporary congregation, I understand the question, they're not closing, they're now threatening, and that's for sure, but the temporary congregation, the temporary import congregation ends at the end of December. I'll tell you again what for those tobacco companies, and for the economy as a whole, it would be more important for us to stabilize the balance of payments, and thus the course than to create better conditions for, sorry, selling tobacco. If we have to choose between each other, and I don't think we have to choose, I think it's an empty threat because they're still selling their goods here, we should choose the balance of payments and the stability of the macro-financial system because it was important to everyone. The volatility of the course also affected them, and they did not want this volatility. Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of weights to influence the course. Because the reserves aren't the amount of money we'd like to see. Today we are filling reserves and in time we will be able to remove all these administrative provisions of the course, including, since the law only works by the end of the year, we will have this imported congregation by the end of the year. As for the RRO, I think we're going to continue this programme of discussion and information to the people. But maybe Helen will add something.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u163	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u164	I want to add on the first question that's in the tobacco sector that we've built an industrial platform. For today's tobacco companies, they're budgeting, first. Secondly, they agree that excise taxes should be increased, but they point out that they are gradually, there for three, five, ten years, as was the case in the countries of the European Union. And the RRO. I want to say that every day, within the framework of communication policy, we go out with information messages on the radio, on television, and on different round tables. So every day there's information for businesses. In addition, training is organized today, and in just one week, 60 people have been trained and recorded. The training is free of charge and the students are willing to go to the training classes with cashiers. In addition, the State Fiscal Service organized training seminars in all areas and regions. You and I, by the way, have discussed this issue and we have promoted our communication policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for questioning is running out. We will have the opportunity to speak from factions and questions on other speakers. I invite the co-rapporteur of the first deputy head of the profile budget committee, Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenk. Five minutes to report and five minutes to question later.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u166	Dear Ukrainians, Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Pursuant to article 152 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budget Affairs has worked out a government draft of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2016. In general, more than 200 proposals from the National Deputies and Committees of the Supreme Council have been considered with the participation of the Ministry of Finance. Individual proposals were not taken into account because they do not meet the requirements of article 33 of the Code of Budgets or are not subject to budgetary regulation. In addition, some proposals do not contain adequate financial and economic calculations and require the identification of sources for their implementation in order to maintain budgetary balance. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Budget Code, such proposals can be considered directly in the context of the 2016 draft state budget, or require a system-wide solution in the medium term depending on the financial capacity of the State. As a result of the consideration of the proposals, the Committee on Budget Affairs finalized the draft guidelines for budgetary policy. Among the provisions that have been completed or refined are: a very important norm, saving a percentage of GDP over a budget of not more than 33.5 percent. Developing a plan of action and carrying out a total amount of government and guaranteed debt to the required requirements. Ensure an economically sound increase in the minimum wage and salary of the staff member of the first tariff level, ensuring that such indicators are gradually approximated, taking into account the growth of the real economy, consumer price index and the financial capacity of the budget. Avoiding excessive debt from paying off budget workers, increasing social protection for underprivileged groups, ensuring that social benefits are targeted. Conduct an evaluation of the efficiency of budget programmes and determine the degree of achievement by the main budget managers of the expected results. Organizing the paid services provided by the authorities, ensuring a clear separation of the administrative congregations and the own revenue of the budgetary institutions. Continue to reform the health system by improving the level of primary health care and further delimiting health care facilities to a secondary and third level, as well as by taking steps to introduce mandatory State social health insurance, to ensure the openness and transparency of the budgetary process on an up-to-date basis, and to make budgetary information available. At the same time, it is proposed to remove the government’s initiative to switch agricultural enterprises to a general tax-added tax regime, bearing in mind that the Tax Code and the Coalition Agreement for the Predicted Preservation of the Special Regime by 2018. In addition, taking into account the numerous comments made by the National Deputies regarding the oversaturation of the government project with the current functional tasks of individual development, the Committee proposes to remove certain positions that are not directly related to the formation of the 2016 budget and which the government has sufficient authority to implement. This rule applies to those provisions that enter into force after, later than 2016. To sum up, I will make a decision by the Committee on Budget Affairs: recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft "Basic Directions of Budget Policy 2016" be approved by the working committee, number 2623d. Please support the Committee's decision, bearing in mind that the aim of this document is to identify the priorities of budgetary policy, based on today's challenges, the financial opportunities of the state and the outlook for 2016's economic development. I hope that the government will finally bring the draft budget to the Supreme Council not on New Year's Eve, but, as provided for in our code, by September 15th, it will be discussed on all committees and each.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u167	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u168	and any amendment to be made by the People's Deputy will be considered and voted in the Chamber if it is not supported by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich? Dear colleagues, we have heard the report of the first deputy head of the committee. We'll be asking questions in five minutes. People's deputies, please prepare for the recording. Let's sign up, please. Let's sign up. Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear speaker! There are questions that the Minister of Finance has not answered. When it is proposed and proposed to take a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the approval of macroeconomic indicators, which in general include the notion of the minimum wage size and the concept of inflation planned for the following year, the basic national social standard as a subsistence minimum, which in general the budget policy parameters for the following year may be discussed when the main indicators provided for in Ukraine's laws are not given to us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u171	Dear colleague, I hope we still have time and in the government's budget project we can see all the basic indicators. And I insist once again that we start this process, not in December-month, but on September 15 when we get the draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barn, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u173	Thank you. I would like to ask you about the development strategy of the budgetary system for 2016 in the context of regulating minimum and maximum wages and pensions according to European standards, so that it is not anywhere. Not more than 10 times, not as much as 100; providing the country's poorest citizens, especially in the area of municipal services. And the main thing is to prevent energy dependence and the people from being dependent on Russian gas so that the main criteria for the development budget next year are to give people the opportunity to replace the heating system as a result of the warming of houses, as a result of the granting of long-term benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u174	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to remind you that the purpose of this document is to define the priorities of budgetary policy based on the challenges and today and the financial possibilities of the state and the forecast of the economy for 2016. We're giving the government a framework today to get you and me a quality document that will be considered in the proper order. I'm sure the 16th year budget will be quality with you, and together we'll take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u176	Please, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a problem with first -, second -, accreditation facilities. The Higher Education Act should determine by 2017 whether they remain in the higher education system or move into the vocational education system. This will determine their location of funding from the central budget or from local budgets. Instead, this document proposes something since 2016 to be translated into local budgets. This is not at all in line with the algorithm that they should use to determine by 2017 whether they belong to a higher education system. So we insist and ask that we pay attention to this change. And once again, set a final deadline for them by January 1, 2017, as proposed in previous documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u178	Thank you. We will maintain this standard, but we have it today. They are not the only ones to determine. You and I understand that the I-Il levels of accreditation of educational institutions, but let's do it by hand, let's be honest, this is a regional order. And I'm sure we will, together, and we'll convince our educational institutions at the same time. And the logic of common sense suggests that they still have to be financed from local budgets. And for 2017, we support your standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u179	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u180	Dear colleague, you and I all know what a great responsibility we have when we vote for the budget. In order not to be again in the December months of poses and screams that we are breaking the budget for the following year, you know, there is a rule of the Constitution of the Law that in the budget, the budget resolution we have to anticipate minimum wage and minimum pension. Today, at consumer price levels, the minimum pension should be 1811 dollars. Please tell us how you propose to vote on a budget resolution that does not have a reference, how to calculate a budget with a minimum pension and a minimum wage. Or we accept the resolution again that will prepare the budget for poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u181	Alexander Volodymyrna, we are now on the committee just like any national MP concerned about this matter. We require the government to ensure an economically sound increase in the minimum wage, precisely taking into account the criteria and parameters that you have said, ensuring that such indicators are gradually approximated, taking into account the growth of the real economy, consumer prices of the index and financial capacity of the budget. I hope that the government will listen to these suggestions, and we will surely receive them. Let's see what else the dollar will be tomorrow! No one in Ukraine knows that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not defending the government, but I'll tell you what we have today. Please, Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u182	You don't have to protect the government, I can't give you a figure today when the budget is filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u183	You know, you can yell, but it doesn't change the situation that I can't give you a number.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer. Dear colleagues, I would urge everyone to be more restrained. From where to show which vocal cords, well, why. Asked questions, got answers. Obviously, they're now working with creditors on debt restructuring, and then it's going to depend on what it will be. We understand that, colleagues. We can all demonstrate our intellectual abilities, but we need to approach the real situation. Matvienkov. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u185	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Of course, the question would be better addressed to the Minister of Finance. But I listened carefully to her report and your report. Of course, the budget resolution is a road map that we must follow today, as we will live in 2016. It's also a minimum of living, it's certainly a wage, it's a Pension Fund and many, many other things that unfortunately we don't see today. And the answer is that we don't know what tomorrow's course is going to be, only that we're going now, you're going to find out, is that there's such a term as hangovers, that's what we're going to do, but who's going to survive this question. I'd like to ask one very simple, basic question. Today we have 9, 8, I don't know, a percent drop in gross domestic product, you're planning plus 2 percent growth to date. I would like to understand from what industries, how do we get an increase in GDP next year? Provided today, to date, we do not yet see any trend towards GDP growth in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u186	Thank you. You know, I don't want to go into politics, I'm sorry, but you know how to ask questions when you did business in Ukraine, half of Ukraine fled, and now you're sitting silently and not supporting the laws that the government needs today and coalitions. So let's leave that question rhetorical.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time for questioning is over. One last question. National MP Bakumenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u188	Dear Mrs. Natala! Here's a question for you. According to article 12 of the coalition agreement, which is an integral part of the government’s actions, it is envisaged to maintain the APC’s tax system until January 1, 2018. You are submitting in the Budget Resolution of 1 January 2016. But you know that today, for the first time in ten years, the GDP of the APC has been reduced by 5 percent and 4 percent. Animal production has been reduced, and meat production, milk, and eggs have been reduced. So it's going down to that locomotive that everybody's paying attention to. Tell me, please, why are you canceling this special regime, which is the only support for the APC? Are you leading the state to stop the APC?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u189	No, it's not. I'm not running the country to stop the APC. No way. The APC is the most important now and the most powerful sector in the economy. But you and I signed and agreed on the International Monetary Fund program that we will move into a general regime for the APC from January 1st, 16th. We did it not because we were forced to do it, but because we also believe that it's right, that everyone should be in the same conditions. We believe that this will never stop the agricultural sector, but it really has to play a bigger role in the tax base. No one else can. Do you understand that? Yeah? It's not our mission to choose the fields. With tax reform, we're not prepared to choose one or the other to have benefits, but instead to have one equal field for. fair all to play in one field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets does not support this rule, and I have already announced to you that we are proposing to remove this initiative from the government and the Tax Code, and the coalition agreement provides for the preservation of the special regime by 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, take your place. I think it's a more complicated question to discuss and consider separately, not in such a hurry. Dear colleagues, scheduled performances from factions and groups to 2 minutes. Please prepare to register from factions and groups for up to 2 minutes. Please prepare to register from factions and groups. Please sign up from factions and groups. Sign up. Please, National Deputy Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u192	Dear Mr. Head, Sir Mikola Ivanovich, we are now discussing the key issue of economic policy next year. Questions that are being discussed and are actually planning on how the country will live next year. On behalf of the faction, I want to do two accents. First. Credit policies should be replaced with investment policies and new jobs. I am deeply convinced and have every reason to believe that investment in Ukraine, even in today's situation and even in today's government, is possible if the government wants it, because this is what Parliament has long wanted. Focus number two. This document is really supposed to show the standards of social life for the following year. It is impossible to accept this bill without a clear understanding of the minimum wage, the minimum pension. We must accept this document not only for Minfin and Mineconomy, but primarily for our electorate, and as a task for ourselves here in Parliament to secure the commitments we have made. And the third. Since the first day we talked to the government when we hired him to work, we said, "Stop plating" laws, put on the table a new Tax Code that will ensure economic growth in the country and new social standards." These three positions require further processing of the document and the faction will certainly vote in favour. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, Mikola Princely, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u194	The People's Front faction supports the Budget Resolution, thanks to the government for its work, but just like the previous one from the Peter Prashenko bloc, it's asking for some refinement of this document. Obviously, the Budget Resolution is not the Budget Code, and we will make specific changes to the Budget Code. But when we read in this draft a resolution that directing additional own resources to local budgets will be aimed at maintaining national institutions of culture, theaters, reserves, concert organizations, libraries and museums, it's obvious that we can't allow this to happen in the humanitarian situation that took place in the country. Of course, national cultural institutions should be supported from the national budget and I have full confidence that in supporting the budget code, we will find a relationship with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u195	Yegor Sobolev, Self-help. Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u196	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The very wrong building of the authorities in Ukraine is the result of this discussion that we have today. What happened? I'll give you a simple example. In a state-owned enterprise, the second person is always the chief of finance, because there's no money, and in the morning they're putting on the stakes to pay. In a company, a private friend is always the person who does the development, the perspective of where to move, where markets are. And where to get the money: from shoppers, to borrow someone, to take a partner with you is the second question. So do we. In the 1990s, the Ministry of Finance won the Ministry of Economics. We're still living on year-on-year plans with the 2009 crisis, not even one year-on-year, because as of August-September, the State Budget Act is not being implemented. We live on nine months of plans. We have moved from cave planning to wild, undirected capitalism, which no one in the country or in any country of the world has. Turkey, with 5 percent of its property, has a planning body of more than a thousand people who engage in strategies that are set at three, five, seven years old. The European Union. They have seven years of development in their budget, and their strategies are even longer. And so the right questions for fellow MPs, and they properly criticize this document, because it doesn't provide answers, it doesn't provide strategic answers. That's why we need to make a minimum transition to three-year budgets. Now to thank the Ministry of Finance for its fruitful, constructive work on the committee, especially Igor Umanski, he understands all these systemic problems. To stress that the Ministry of Economics should be involved in its functions, trade, and not just be subjectless in these world wars for the markets. Look, in America, there's only two ministries that do business, and we don't have one. The economic planning of the state, the partnerships with the industries, in no way will it be a cavernous Soviet plan economy. But it's going to be predicted, it's clear that for us, it's a priority, not as it is now, for us, everything is a priority, so nothing is a priority for us. So I'd like you to rework this document, submit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u197	Finish up, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u198	We will support this document when it provides real answers to questions raised by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u199	Thank you. Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u200	Dear Mrs. Natalia, distinguished members of the government! I've been calling today the scary statistics about that real state of the economy of Ukraine, you know them. We lost a quarter of Ukrainian industrial production in the first quarter, 35 percent of exports, population poverty, social collapse, and we realize that at this rate of government action in the fall, there will be industrial catastrophe and there will be no understanding of how to get out of this crisis. We are now discussing the direction of budgetary policy for 2016. People are good, let's be honest, there's no time for the government to waste time and to think for years. Today's language is, however, that over a month or two we need to get the situation straight, make the Tax Code, create an investment climate, answer all the key budgetary questions for next year. Otherwise it's just this country and this economy is going to stop in the fall. What we're talking about today is that the government is kind of like a train that's running on the tracks, and we don't know where it's headed by a government that's already passed all the coal that it was. Already in the passenger cars, people were taken away from the suitcases, the shelves, thrown into the ball, and they were actually burned. At the stations, you're borrowing some more wood, coal, but that doesn't save the day. The only way out is through industrial development, through increased investment attractiveness, through infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, we have not seen in these budget proposals for 2016 large infrastructure and industrial projects. There is nothing in the budget to build roads, bridges, powerful infrastructure projects that caused all the crisis economies. Germany, after the war, Europe, after the war, the States in economic crisis. And I want this to be the rebirth group, and I want this to be included in the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u201	Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u202	Dear friends! Today, we have heard the answer several times to a question that requires the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Resolution, the Budget Code. What should be in the Budget Resolution? As MPs, we need to understand how a person with a consumer today for April, information about a consumer basket, and understanding what inflation has been going through, everyone understands that a pension of 940 dollars is worth a pension of a thousand 811. Understand us, we communicate with people every day, they want to understand how the government plans the 2016 budget. According to these requirements, you have to say, you said, a dollar is 22.5, although today is 21. We already realize that dollar 22.5, and that's the talk, that there'll be panic again after the local elections in October. We're saying, you're planning, you know, to raise prices, to this level of currency, to this inflation situation, there can't be a country, it's impoverished by more than 90 percent of the population. That's why it's not just our wish – it's our responsibility to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u203	Please, Natala Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u204	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! Well, you know how, it's easy to say, it's surprising, it's over, this budget resolution. Surprisingly, to support it -- well, it's not going to be any more European. Because the budget resolution, in which the main macro-indicators are subject to, well, doubt and doubt not only by the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament, but also primarily by those international institutions that today lend to our country. But we did examine the International Monetary Fund report, and on 2 June, the IMF mission deteriorated macro indicators in Ukraine. The IMF mission plans that in 2015 the drop in GDP in Ukraine will be equal to 9 per cent and inflation will be 46 per cent. But we see how the government, instead of the indicators that prove to them the same people who are lending them today, contains them, in large accounts, and pays them their wages, they come and say, "Yes, no, the GDP will be 2 per cent." Listen, but it's time to get your head out of the sand and stop talking about things that aren't really good enough. But who knows the wonderful formula that will allow GDP to grow by 9 per cent in 2015, plus 2 per cent in 2016. Right now, the Radical Party is saying that only the Opposition Unit can through its professionalism and the adoption of laws that are in place in Parliament to solve this problem. We therefore insist first of all that it is unacceptable to adopt this resolution in this Parliament today, because the third consecutive year the Government proposes to freeze social standards. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u205	Please. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten seconds, like everybody else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u206	They offer to close hospitals, schools and clubs. We definitely don't support that. And they want to continue raising tariffs. We are definitely against this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u207	Please, People's Deputy Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u208	May I? Can I just give you the facts? May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u209	Oh, please. The replica. The Minister of Finance's replica. And I'm asking you to hold on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u210	I just want to confirm. Mrs. Royal, you're really right about 2015 forecasts. But the macroeconomic forecasts for 2016 are completely correlated with those that the International Monetary Fund wrote in the latest report in June-month. I mean, I didn't invent them out of my head or out of heaven!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u211	Please, People's Deputy Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! As for the content of the document that lays the financial basis of our country's life for 2016, it can be described in two words: total uncertainty. There is no figure in the project that would clearly allow us to define basic social standards: minimum wage and minimum wage, without which budget and social policies cannot be formed next year. After the steep flow of bureaucratic images and empty phrases, the main questions are lost: Where does the state go? What sectors is it developing?What resources are being allocated from the budget for its support and development? In order to clearly see the budget parameters next year, we need to solve the following problems: first, the threatening decline in the domestic industry in 2014 minus 10.7 percent, in January-March 15th, minus 21.4 percent. Secondly, the inability of the vast majority of citizens to pay their bills without subsidies and the state after rising energy tariffs and lowering the real income of the population. Thirdly, there is a sharp decline in exports, including to countries in the European Union that are facing other currency crises. There is only one paragraph to support industry in the text of the document, which says that the government will encourage the development of the domestic industry by placing a government order. However, it is not clear what kind of product the government’s order will be for, except for the defence. There is no word on how the rest of the industry will be stimulated in order to stop its decline. There is no policy on supporting small and medium-sized businesses. The "will of the people" group urges both the government, and the Supreme Council to approach this important document professionally, rather.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u213	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u214	Instead of the paperwork with the legal and philosophical fog, you really need to make a budget plan for the next, obviously, not an easy year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u215	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u216	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. This high-ranking parliamentary rostrum was just delivered by a representative of the block of thieves, Mrs. Natalia Kraljevska, who lied about what the Radical Party says only a thief bloc can carry out reforms in the country. Apparently, Natalia is a little deaf or blind, so I'll repeat what the Radical Party says. First of all, Natal. You signed up for a thief's block. Second, Natalu. As a minister in the Yanukovich government, you robbed pensioners, robbed the entire Ukrainian state, voted, along with your partners in the theft bloc, for decisions that led to the robbery of the country. The thieving bloc, including thief Natalie the Royal, is responsible for the robbery of every Ukrainian pensioner, every employee of the Donbas war. Kraljevska as a member of the government of Azarov is personally responsible for the construction of the corruption of the border because she helped Yanukovic rob the country and build this "marigree". And I didn't resign when Janukovich's gang robbed the country. What does the Radical Party offer? First, ban the thief's block. Second, bring King's Landing and Boyk's partners and everyone else to criminal responsibility. Don't let them hide behind the MPs. Third, Natal, I have an offer. You're still in the occupied territory of Luhansk. Sell your business and give your money to the pensioners! Sell your "broulians" where you go to work and give your money to retirees. Sell stolen goods, return the stolen billions you stole from the State Budget, and that will be the best of your assistance to the Ukrainian State! And my wish to the government. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u217	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u218	This is the government's wish: radically change economic policy. No subsidies or subsidies will solve the country’s problem. The only way out is to create jobs, work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u219	Come on, please. Dear fellow national MPs! We have concluded our discussion of the matter. If there is a need for the minister to declare the closing word? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u220	I can only add one to make everyone understand. No document we can give you today will respond to a situation that will take two or three months. Because to predict it, you're absolutely right, or I won't, or you won't, or the International Monetary Fund won't. We're making the best forecast we can at this point. In addition, all the criticism that this is not a European style, that this is not a European approach, is true because in Europe budgets are not being prepared in advance for six months. The International Monetary Fund, as an example, tells us that we are very, very far from that moment, we don't have to prepare the budget, but we do it because it's the Ukrainian Law, and we respect the law. But really, you all realize that the budget you're going to be looking at in September this month is going to be much more real, with more significant numbers than we can give you today. We've given you today the forecast we can give, but the budget period should be much shorter and closer by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, national MPs! We finished our discussion of the subject. And the way I feel about the position of MPs is that there's such a common mood to work out this document and put it in the hall. Do I get it right? This was expressed by all the factions that have just spoken. Therefore, the proposal will now be followed, to return the resolution to the committee there to finalize it, to work more closely with the deputies than the factions who have expressed their positions, and thus we will be able to introduce an agreed resolution based on which the 2016 budget will be established. Do you have a deal? So please, colleagues, take your seats, please. Oleg Beresuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u222	Not only would I turn back, but I'd like to set deadlines for the end of this session, by mid-July, we've heard the next proposal for a declaration. So by the end of the session to hear the next position of the declaration, it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u223	Prepare it quickly. It's a deal. Colleagues, let's not discuss this anymore. Let's get back to the committee. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u224	I want to speak to Mrs. Jaresko again. The agrarians have been here before. Dear Mrs. Jarezko! You know very well that an institution like the IMF respects other world institutions, such as the World Trade Organization. So at the time of Ukraine’s entry into the U.S.A., we were allowed to have seven times less state support for the APC is 1.5 billion dollars. Show me in Budget Resolution 1.5 billion dollars of government support for the following year? Zero! And you're taking the last of the benefits that there is. Please clean up, it will not pass in the room, it will not vote in favour of any resolution where the standard you are proposing is. Pull it up!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee, concludes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, I suggest you return him not to the committee, but return him to the government for work because we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u227	Colleagues, we have two choices, respectively. Either return to the committee or vote. I think that on the committee we'll do better with the government. The committee. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. On the committee. The budget resolution will be prepared by the committee. Read, Your Honor, the Rules. All of it. We're getting ready. The committee, as stated in the Rules. Colleagues, please vote in favour of the return of the 16th-year budget policy directive to the committee, and we will work together with the government and make a concerted proposal. Please vote, colleagues, for your return to the committee. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:41:47]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u228	Apparently, the government will be working with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, who couldn't vote? I see. Let's go back. Howard. Please, the National MP has not been able to vote. To the return! Article 152, read the Rules. To return. On our return, we will support and send them to the committee, and we will all work together on the committee to make an agreed proposal. What is the problem? [[13:42:21]] For 234 We're back. To return to the committee, please vote in favour. To return to the committee for further processing and re-examination. Please refer the draft Order of the Supreme Council on the main directions to the Committee on Budget Issues, to be prepared for reconsideration by the Supreme Council, taking into account the observations and conclusions of the review. Please, Your Honor, we're voting for a return to preparation, for a re-examination. Please be supportive. [[13:42:55]] For 232 Decision taken. 232. We'll return, we'll work out, there'll be a quality document that will be in Parliament. We need to do it quickly, not stretch it for a long period of time. Thank you. I think we'll work it out and do it. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, let us turn to first - reading questions. Please refer to the draft law amending Appendix 2 of the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (Registration No. 2771) (Governmental). The government offers to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be sure to consider the simplified procedure. This is a review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[13:43:48]] For-174 Thank you. Decision taken. Please report to First Deputy Defence Minister Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak. Please, Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u230	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The draft law is designed to clarify the legal rules for the transfer to the war flags of military forces that are formed from old battle flags. The April 29 bill was approved at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The very order of deposit is provided by the National Military and Historical Museum of Ukraine, which is a professional museum of the Ministry of Defence, which has been handing over military battle flags that have been handed over since 1991. Such flags are now 65. The National Museum of the History of the Great National War is being handed over to the Memorial complex, the battle flags of the military forces that participated in World War II. These flags are more than 700. It is also envisaged that marked battle flags, including orders, letters, historical aids, may be handed over for temporary storage to museums (rooms) of military glory or local museums, museums of public educational institutions for open exposure by consent from the Ministry of Defence and the corresponding National Museum of the Great Homeland War. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the preservation of the battle flags, the activation of the military and patriotic and cultural education of Ukrainian citizens. The draft was discussed on June 3rd for the National Security and Defence Committee, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council recommends the adoption of a bill in the first reading, on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, report to the committee head. Sergei Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u232	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, we support this bill: the armed forces are building up, there are new parts, there are new traditions, there is a new story -- it's important, and we support it. But unfortunately, I'd like to point out that we're a little bit wrong in prioritizing, and once again, we've failed the daily law enforcement bill -- it's a more up-to-date law. Today, in spite of our faction's demands, there is no agenda under the pressure of the oligarchs and their troubadours in this room, a bill on the transfer of an arrested fuel to almost a billion dollars for the army, and there are dozens of such bills. And I'm asking you when we make some statements to consider that there is a priority for our nation, to look at these priorities, and to make informed, constructive decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u233	Thank you. Please, do you need two for, two for against? Please sign up: two for, and two against. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Pober.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u234	Strike Party, National MP Pober. I give you my word to Mr. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u235	Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u236	Dear colleagues, we support this bill. But I would like to draw the attention of our colleagues, the Ministry of Defence and government in general, that military and patriotic education is not only carried out by the battle flags passed on at the Second World War museum. Military patriotic education is carried out through the normal feeding of soldiers who are fighting for Ukraine, who are normally in uniform, who are being treated with normal respect and support. I've already said here in the session room that we have temporary reconciliation, although unfortunately the boys are dying, but a large number of soldiers today have the opportunity to rest, they take it, and soldiers, and officers, as evil, really. Because when military action went on, no one in Genstab checked them. Now we're on our way to the backs to check it out. They measure the length of the logs on the cabinets where soldiers are undressed, and they check other statutory requirements of the statute of the Soviet Union Armed Forces. So I have a proposition that today, when there's a maximum possibility, we have to go through all the military and do everything we can to get the Ukrainian soldier and the officer to eat properly, dress normally, and receive a normal military and patriotic education system. What is military patriotic education? We need to think about what to do today for a soldier who prepares for possible military action, not just by formally passing on military flags. So we vote in favour of this bill and we ask for less checks from the Ministry of Defense and more respect and respect for the Ukrainian soldier.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u237	Please, National Deputy Paul Kishkar, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u238	Dear colleagues! Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. In fact, in terms of priority, this bill is not a priority, but it defines a very important element of military patriotic education and self-help will support this bill. We will be grateful to the Ministry of Defence if the next bill will be a program of military and patriotic education for young people in Ukraine based on work as a society to promote the defence of Ukraine, which needs to be done in a fundamental way and through the involvement of Plast. I confirm Mr. Mikola's words that an inactive soldier, who is not involved, including in the military and patriotic education system, from boredom, is generally thrown either into alcoholism or alcoholism. So we're going to insist that internal rotation systems, when soldiers on the front change each other inside the unit, including military patriotic education and training. We will promote the Ministry of Defence, and this bill will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u239	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! We will clearly support the Radical Party on a basis and in general this bill, which we think is really important in the patriotic upbringing of our young and our military. But at the same time, what happens under those flags is not just about the flags. What do I mean? Right in those moments, at the Impulse military defence plant, the Ukrainian Security Service is doing a search and removal of documents that testify to the corruption of the director of this plant, which we talked about in this rostrum. At the same time, this Parliamentary Hall is being called into the H.R.U.S. and is required to call off the task force. They're calling Defense Prom and trying to protect the corrupts. So we think that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u241	Please finish 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u242	We believe that in order to be worthy of the flags under which our heroes fight, it is necessary to conquer corruption, stop the villains who steal military and defence industries. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u243	Heroic glory! We're finishing the discussion from the rostrum, Vladimir Parasuk, please turn on the microphone at the rostrum. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u244	Thank you. I wanted to speak to the Ministry of Defense. You know, it's very good that we're going to raise young people. But, you know, I'm very sorry, myself, my own home land is Javorina, where there's a big range, and you know, sometimes I'm ashamed to drive in spite of the villages that touch this range and see a huge number of drunk soldiers. I want you to focus on that and also raise the soldiers who are now serving. Because all the problems that are in the army, everyone sees them well, but they don't talk about them, they just do showcases when American specialists come. Please consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u245	Thank you. Society, we're finalizing the discussion. And I'm voting on the proposal that came from the committee as a basis. Is it possible to base it as a whole? We can put it, right? Then, please, if there is no objection in the room, I am voting on the draft Act amending Appendix 2 to the Constitution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (number 2771) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:54:22]] For 254 The law is passed. And we, I'm exercising the right of a leader, I'm continuing on. We're up to 15 minutes away from work. And now, on a daily basis, we have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance to ensure that social insurance funds are active during the restructuring period (2775). And there is a request for us to consider this bill in a simplified procedure. Is there support in the hall? Please vote and support. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[13:55:17]] For-160. Thank you for your support. And the report invites Deputy Minister of Social Policy Ivankevich Viktor Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u246	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! You are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" to ensure the activities of social insurance funds during their restructuring period, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Coalition Agreement of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council sets out a package of reforms, particularly those to be undertaken in 2015. The reform in the area of social insurance was introduced by the Supreme Council adopted in December 2014 by the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Social Insurance Reform, which includes the creation of a social insurance fund, reorganizing the merger of the social insurance fund from industrial accidents and the social insurance fund from temporary loss of employment. In order to reorganize social insurance funds by merging them, the authorized authorities of these funds must decide to stop and form appropriate commissions. This procedure is defined by the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. The bill proposes that executive directorates of reorganising funds be given the authority to decide on their termination, as well as the authority to submit draft social insurance budgets to the government for approval. The draft law also proposes to improve the procedure for the appointment of the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund by contracting it. The adoption of the law will allow the implementation of the reform, i.e. if this law is passed, today and tomorrow the executive director will decide to set up a commission for the liquidation of the fund by merger and the ministry will register after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u247	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u248	Once this law has been passed, it will be possible to register the statute of the newly created fund. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u249	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u250	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has indeed been considered by the Committee on Social Policy, Labour and Retirement, and I propose that you adopt this bill as a basis, in general, we cannot support it, as the Minister of Social Policy believes, and therefore he does not solve all the problems that today are in order to ensure and implement this law that we passed on December 28. The Ministry of Social Policy should have done this work by July 1st, bringing together two funds to make the Social Insurance Fund work. Unfortunately, this bill, which is being proposed by the Ministry of Social Policy, is still an opportunity to implement this law, the executive directorate to conclude the commission, has eliminated its funds. Today there are 2 funds, they work, there's a person assigned to the Social Insurance Fund, but he doesn't have the authority and he doesn't even have the salary. So I'm asking very much that we take this as a basis and vote for it, and we're looking at it as timelessly as possible to prepare for the second reading, because it's really very important for those people who get social insurance services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u251	Thank you very much. Is there a need to discuss, say, colleagues? None. We have a proposal from the committee, we have a conclusion from the head of the expert board that he can take as a basis, and that's why there's a proposal to put him to the vote on the basis. Mr. Head? Then we put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" – 2775 as a basis. Please support the vote. [[14:00:34]] For 225
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u252	No, it's so unfair, it's so unfair. National MP Bakumenko. Let's go, and Krivenko, let's go back. Is there an offer to come back? Whose offer is that? The chapel's offer to come back, okay. Let's put the vote back on. For your return, colleagues. Concentrate, please. 2775, return. Please, we're voting for a return. For your return, please. [[14:01:20]] For 228 A proposal found support in the hall. We're voting on the basis. 2775, please support, Your Honor. 2775, we vote on the basis. Vote. I'll give instructions: if you want to support the law, press the green button. [[14:01:44]] For 228 2775. And there's a proposal for a reduced procedure, preparation for second reading. It's perfectly normal. Fellows, come back. By a reduced procedure, preparation for second reading. Please vote. It's a short-term procedure. [[14:02:17]] For 202 I didn't get a vote offer. Dear colleagues, a moment. I exercise my right to continue the session. We have more. Wait. We have another law. 1831, a very important law that has the title of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure transparency of property of the media, as well as the implementation of the principles of public policy in the field of television and radio. Everyone, please take your seats. We will consider this law and continue to close the morning session. Is it accepted? I'll take it. Can't I hear it? Roger that. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure, 1831. Please vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[14:03:18]] For 168 Decision taken. Mikola Knieżicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! No, Mr. Sergei, I'm not jumping, I'm speaking calmly. I hope you and I can jump when we vote for this law. Because it's a really important bill. It is important to Ukraine because it is our commitment to the Council of Europe. It's important to the coalition because it's a bill that's one of the most important in the coalition agreement. This bill is extremely important because it regulates that Ukrainian society has the right to know who owns electronic media, particularly television and radio broadcasting, so far there is no such knowledge. Not long ago, the National Council, last week for example, passed the Law on continuing the license of one of the cables owned only by offshore companies. One of those who calls himself the owner of these channels Mr. Firtash spoke yesterday at Dmitri Kiselov on Sunday on the News Week program and told us how to change Ukraine and resign everyone who sits here. To resign to get the people of Yanukovich, the people of Kurchenko, the people of Ljovczyn, all those who stole Ukraine before, is their dream. And their main tool in this is the media, whose property is not understood, not understood because the real owners of this media are actually sitting in Russia. This law will allow and oblige all television companies to direct all media owners to the last while licensed at the National Council. He's simple and clear. I very much ask you to support this law and show that we are now truly able to build a new Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? None. Moreover, this is the basis for the second reading we will consider this bill of the Law and so forth. Colleagues, 1831. 1831. Dear colleagues, on the ground. I'm going to put in a signal vote, get ready so we don't crash the bill. Please, on the basis of 1831, a signal vote. Signal. Signal. Please. Please, emergency. 1831, please identify yourself. 1831, signal vote, honorary colleagues. [[14:06:03]] For 233 I'll put it to a vote in 1831. Vote on the basis of 1831. 1831 on the basis of a respected colleague. At the suggestion of the National Deputies and the Committee of Profiles. [[14:06:23]] For 240. Decision taken. Thank you, fellow believers. Head of the committee, Princess, one minute to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. All of it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u256	Colleagues! Colleagues! Colleagues! Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u257	Please support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m0.u258	So, honourable colleagues, there's an offer to consider it in a simplified procedure, at least two people have reservations about the procedure. Please, on the ground. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let's go. Vote. Concentrate. Please. For the preparation of the reduced procedure, colleagues, for the second reading. [[14:07:28]] For 225 Once again, it's a short-circuit offer. Once again, a reduced procedure for second reading. Vote. Under the reduced procedure of preparing for second reading. We will prepare the law in a good way, and we will adopt it accordingly. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:07:50]] For 229 Decision taken. 229. Thank you, Your Honor. I declare the morning session closed. Thank you for your attention. At 4 p.m., there will be a meeting, an evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
