ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. We'll start our work. Please, fellow nationals, take your seats in the hall. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and we will begin our work. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:07:47]] 299 deputies in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council, the plenary, the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honorable fellow members of the national parliament, today an important day, are a number of very important laws, including those relating to the issue of the law - enforcement system. Today we will consider a number of laws with you that will transform the post-Radians system of internal affairs into a modern system that will enable effective law enforcement, including the police. We will also discuss issues with you about improving the work of the prosecutor’s office. All these questions relate to ensuring that human rights and freedoms are respected, effectively combating crime. In particular, I would like to point out that today, as part of this project, you and I will also consider the creation of the Municipal Guard, a sufficient mechanism for maintaining order in the territorial communities. In particular, I would like to say that today is the day when the Risk Summit begins, in which we have high hopes. And I would also like to inform you that our partners, including nearly 100 European Parliament deputies, have called for a written summit on the adoption of a visa-free regime decision. I think we should thank our fellow MEPs for this position. So today is an extremely responsible day. I ask everyone to concentrate as much on our work as possible so that we can look at the whole agenda -- many important projects, laws that need to be considered. We're starting our work, colleagues. For your consideration of the honourable fellow members of the People's Parliament, a draft decree is being introduced. Attention! Well, all we talked about was who's got the embroidery, now we're calm and we're starting to work. Who supports this initiative? In unison. Colleagues, take your seats. Please. Thank you. Draft Decree (Registration No. 2765) approving the application for a derogation from the obligations set out in the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the European Social Charter. The initiative of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. The focal point is the head of the profile committee in the overseas Anna Hopko. There is a proposal to consider the draft regulation in a simplified procedure. Everyone, please be prepared, Your Honors, and please be determined to consider this issue of the agenda in a simplified manner. Please vote. Please support the reduced procedure. [[10:11:49]] For 169 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! Please invite us to report to the author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oxana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u2	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'll have your attention, because now we're going to be looking at a very important document, important and internal, and important in the international dimension. Regrettably, war continues to dictate to Parliament the order of the day and war has a difficult effect on respect, and the protection of human rights in both occupied territories and territories along the so - called collision line. We must recognize that we make decisions that we would certainly never have made if it had not been for the conditions of war. And today our decision is already the subject of speculation by our neighbor Russia, the aggressor state. Although we are part of all international agreements relating to humanitarian law, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we have the right as a State on which aggression is taking place, we have the right to withdraw from these obligations in order to protect our interests. Therefore, the draft decision that is proposed for your consideration. Ukraine’s derogation from the individual obligations set out in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is, in fact, the decision of Ukraine that we report in accordance with our rights, particularly article 15 of the Convention, we deviate from individual obligations in connection with previous decisions. I would like to stress that the approval of the Supreme Council of the Statement Approval Order is a necessary, important but necessary step at the same time. And the adoption of this decree is neither a refusal to commit to international treaties nor a step toward the imposition of permanent restrictions. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u3	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u4	I would also like to point out that the Supreme Council should be conscious and ensure, as soon as possible, that all the laws in the decree are reviewed and that the restrictions are imposed, the derogation, in fact, from Ukraine's obligations. I would also like to point out that it is our duty as a nation to recognize the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and this will also help us to restore the protection of human rights. In addition, I would like to point out that it is also necessary to make efforts and the government to ensure that human rights are respected and protected in the conflict area. First of all, there is a need to ensure that individuals are evacuated and protected during the evacuation. There is also a need to ensure a clear and effective interaction between all the executive authorities that are exercising human rights protection and security today. We must also ensure that international humanitarian law is respected. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to your support. I just want to point out that the bill has been prepared in close cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and experts from the Council of Europe. And it is fully supported and accepted as a consensus document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Hanna Hopko, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u6	Good afternoon, fellow believers! It's very nice to see such a thriving parliament in a variety of beautiful embroidery, and today I wanted us to vote in favour of the 2765 ruling that was supported on the committee yesterday. This is also the position of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I would like to say that this decision is extremely important for us to adopt it. It is in Ukraine’s national interest. It also responds to Ukraine’s international commitments. And I want to say, really, what Oksana Siroid said is that it is a necessary step towards Ukraine's withdrawal from the individual obligations set out in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The committee at its meeting considered a draft decision made by the members of the people and adopted a decision recommending a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to adopt a draft decision on the basis and overall of the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Social Policy. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u7	Thank you. Vote. Sign up for two, two for the other. Are they desirable? The deputy's right, holy. Please, Joanna Clipus-Cincadze, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to support the call that you and I have made today is not a simple decision. Again, regrettably, Ukraine is not always able to guarantee the fulfilment of its obligations in this area regarding the protection of human rights. And so from the fact that there is such a possibility in this convention and pact that we can deviate from the country's individual obligations -- we have to use that right. I am convinced that this is a temporary step and we will have the opportunity to return to the full guarantee of human rights and freedoms in this territory in as strict a time as possible. And now I'm just asking you to support this bill and support the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Igor Mosiychuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u10	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Ukrainian People! A very just and faithful decision that states that Ukraine is ready and will continue to live up to its obligations. At the same time, we would like to ask our Western partners that they should do the same in Budapest’s commitment, the guarantee of our territorial integrity. Those who challenge us from some international obligation are, above all, our enemies who are hiding in the Kremlin, who have brought invaders to our land, those individuals should reflect on what they have done and do by violating international law. Recently, we honored victims of forced Crimean Tatars. Today is the anniversary of the genocide of the Chechen people. The honourable Ukrainian Parliament, considering that the Chechens are our allies in the war against Moscow, please honor the memory. A moment of silence in the memory of the fallen Chechens during deportation. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. And everyone in the Kremlin who says that we do not keep our obligations should remember that we will not report to them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u11	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is a very responsible document. I'd like to explain his nature. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of such an application. This is a statement that is in fact in line with our international obligations. A number of international conventions predict that in the event of military armed aggression by another State to protect sovereignty, individual provisions of the Convention on Human Rights and the protection of human rights are to be halted. What does it matter? In this way we protect, first of all, our military personnel who serve in the Armed Forces in internal affairs. We protect the representatives of the volunteer battalions. We protect civilians who oppose the invaders. In order to ensure that this issue does not arise in any case at any time when it comes to relevant international structures, at the United Nations, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the OSCE, we have the opportunity, according to the conventions signed, to depart from the conventions in the event of armed aggression. That is why this document is very timely, in fact it gives rise to the jurisdiction of individual powers exercised by government authorities, civilians to protect Ukraine’s sovereignty, and that is directly in line with our obligations. Therefore, the request is to uphold this vital act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Yuri Voropeyev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Boyko Yuri Anatolevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u15	Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the entire world community has already acknowledged that the only way to resolve the military conflict is to fully implement the Minsk Treaties, which our Opposition Block has repeatedly insisted on, and that we have put ten draft laws into effect in addition to those treaties. Sadly, this is not being done. And we think it's a direct sabotage on the part of the ruling coalition. And we insist that we start a peace settlement with the implementation of the Minsk Treaties, just as all the world leaders involved in this process insist. As far as decisions are concerned. We believe that it is impossible to accept them because it will not allow citizens whose rights are impaired to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, and thus most of these citizens who will turn will be deprived of it. We will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we exchanged. Please, Andrew Illenko, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please take your seats in the hall, national deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u18	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, we must vote in favour of that decision. And it must have been admitted that a similar decision had to be made a long time ago, probably a year ago. And none here, of course, of these so-called comments that have just spoken from the rostrum can be counted, because that's funny. There's real war and there's different laws. And accordingly the reality that is there has to be changed in the legal plane. And in fact, if we're talking about all of these things, we probably don't have to partially change our legislative decisions right now, and in general, it's a long time before we have to make the right decision: to introduce a state of war, and then all of these issues would be settled immediately. And that's what we're going to do with the introduction of the state of war in parts, and that's part of the solution. The state of war is then all legal mechanisms to guide order. And everything will be so that we can really win this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u19	Dear fellow members of the People's Parliament, for your consideration of the vote -- I ask you to prepare yourself, my friends, for a draft Order approving Ukraine's withdrawal from the obligations set out in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Social Charter. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. 2765 shall be put to the vote as a whole, draft regulation. Please vote. [[10:26:14]] For 249 Thank you, fellow national MPs. I would like to be more careful so that we can work very effectively. Dear colleagues, we have a number of issues in the agenda that are included in the agenda. I'm going to announce them now, and I'm going to propose that we accept them. Work on their preparation and consideration by the Ukrainian National Deputies will continue to be included in the agenda as a whole. That is: 2873 Draft Act amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the nationality of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (2873). 2879 Draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (for the scope of information declared by persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government). It's just inclusion in the agenda. 2406 Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families). 2585 Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for taxation in the agri-industrial complex). 2795 Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of applying tax compromises to monthly advances on corporate income tax. Draft Act (Registration No. 2896) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the final beneficial owner of a legal person. And 2229 a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on "Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" to clarify and enforce the tax facility for payers who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. I will now put to the vote their inclusion in the agenda of the day session and so that we can continue to work on these bills, prepare them for consideration in the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, including the decisions on this matter and the Coalition Council, yesterday was an appropriate meeting. I was informed. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the proposal for the inclusion of issues in the agenda, which is given to the Ukrainian National Deputies, for the submission of committees. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. It's a day-to-day inclusion. In order for us to continue our consideration of matters of the order of the day. [[10:28:55]] For 245 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. Let us now consider the following issues of the order of the day. Dear colleagues! Yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! You and I have a number of important issues about denunciation, draft laws. Registration number 0015, 0016, 0018 and 0019, honorary colleagues. They are all related. There is an invitation to all of them to discuss them on a reduced basis. But I think we can talk enough about all four of these decisions. Because they are all related to each other. Is there no objection? This is the proposal of the authors, some of the authors of these regulations and draft laws. Please, dear fellows. A proposal is made to consider four short - term decisions. Please identify yourself as to the consideration with a reduced procedure, Your Honor. [[10:30:19]] For 203 We'll do it next, thank you, Your Honor. We'll do it this way. We'll give you an opportunity to report by decree. Then there will be one report from the committee after all of these four decrees. And then there's two, there's two, there's two. And we're going to go to the vote. Do you have a deal? Please, colleagues, Michaela Golovko, 0015.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u20	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, your attention is drawn to the draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on transit through Ukraine of Russian formations of the Russian Federation, which are temporarily located in the territory of the Republic of Moldova. So this bill proposes to break the deal with the Russian Federation. It's strange that we should have done this as soon as possible, we could have done it a year ago and it was going to be an initiative of the government, but unfortunately it wasn't done. Today, it is absurd that, through the territory of the Ukrainian State, they can quietly cross the railway routes of the Russian troops as though they were in the Republic of Moldova. Realizing that we are now carrying virtually defense buildings, we are building in the east, we are thinking about how to protect Mariupol and other important territories of the Ukrainian State, and today they can peacefully cross this agreement, and it will be considered not even interference in Ukraine, not trespassing or occupation. So I don't think we can assume that during the war, the Russian-Ukrainian war, when the aggressor is Moscow is now fighting in the East, funding terrorists and their soldiers are shooting at our peaceful cities, I think it's unacceptable that they can now quietly cross the territory of Ukraine. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" drafted this decree, this bill, which we consider appropriate to break the agreement with the Russian Federation on the impossibility of their troops to peacefully cross the border of Ukraine, believing that such actions could lead to aggression by the Russian side against Ukraine. And we think it's appropriate to break this deal as soon as possible. So we call on all the national MPs to support us, we have repeatedly made demands that other sanctions should be imposed on Russia. Sadly, though, our laws are not in the order of the day. So we thank you for making this decision, even if we do, and today we have the opportunity to break the deal with Russia. Thank you. Support me. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, according to our decision, we have three other decisions, 4, 0016, 0017, 0018, and 0019 prepared by the national deputy Lazko. Please, three minutes is enough to report on these orders? Please, three minutes to report. Then there's the committee's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable fellow MPs! I want to remind you, maybe someone doesn't know, that Ukraine has 37 interstate agreements with Russia. Not one of them has been denuncified or broken up today, but we have suffered more than a year from Russian aggression. And that's why those bills on the denunciation of military agreements, on cooperation in the military sphere with Russia that we're considering today, we had to consider these laws a year ago as soon as Russia occupied our Crimea. This is what I'm calling your attention, and heads, and parliament, and the government, and the President, should act on time, not follow events, but take the lead, predict events, predict events, predict and respond adequately. Because if we're with you a year after the Russian aggression started, we're only here to finally denounce these military agreements, how are we going to win if we make a decision in a pig's voice with you? That's why I'm asking the government, from the President, to act adequately in Parliament! Appropriately, according to time requirements, adequate to the situation, appropriate to the tasks that we face on a daily basis. So we've registered four bills. In particular: the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Russia on Transit, on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. The second bill on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Russia on the organization and calculation of military inter-State transfers. Third Bill on Denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and Russia on Cooperation in Military Intelligence. And the fourth bill on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Russia on military cooperation. We think these are very relevant bills, and I hope that the entire House of Parliament, regardless of party and factional membership, will support them. And those who do not denunciation will not vote in favour of the denunciation of these covenants, and this will be an unnecessary witness to the Ukrainian society that works for the enemy and who is the fifth column of the enemy in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian State. Finally, I find it extremely urgent and necessary to bring to Parliament a bill on the denunciation of the Agreement on the residing of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Crimea, as well as the denunciation of the Kharkiv Agreement on the continuation of the Black Sea fleet in Crimea. You remember the battalions here in 2010, in April, when these shameful agreements were denounced. I said five years ago, if we denounce, we'll have a referendum in Crimea and war. Unfortunately, we do today. That's why we want to win. We have to defend ourselves. There's no other way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u23	Please, Hanna Hopko, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u24	Good day, dear fellow presiding officer! The committee considered at its meeting all five draft regulations that had just been issued, particularly those of Freedom and the Radical Party. What we're saying is that our committee has also called on the Ministry of Internal Affairs to conduct an appropriate internal inventory of a bilateral treaty base that will allow for a more effective response to the security challenges and threats posed by the Russian Federation. The Ministry of Defence, the Council of National Security and Defence, also the Ministry of Justice, and all those present at the Committee do not object to the denunciation of such Ukrainian-Russian treaties. Therefore, colleagues, please support the denunciation of these agreements and we will be waiting for the MCC, which has started the second phase of work on improving the contractual and legal basis of Ukrainian-Russian relations and has initiated the preparation of conclusions by the relevant authorities of the executive branch of Ukraine, with regard to the fulfilment by the Russian side of commitments under all international treaties, their effectiveness and relevance to the national interests of Ukraine. Colleagues, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two, two against, or we vote. Vote? Thank you, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote by your fellow national MPs. A draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on transit through the territory of the Russian Federation military formations temporarily located in the territory of the Republic of Moldova (register No. 0015) has been introduced for your vote. The proposal shall be put to the vote as a whole. Please vote, in general. Vote please, colleagues. [[10:38:54]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. 0016 is a draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual protection of classified information. There is a proposal for a general vote, a draft law. [[10:39:31]] For 261 Decision taken. Draft Law 0017 of the Act on the Denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the organization and calculation of military inter-State transfers. 0017 is on the committee's proposal on the basis and in general. Please vote, in general. [[10:40:07]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Next, please, according to the factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 111, "National Front" – 66, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 28, "Radical Party of Oleg Láška – 18, "Fatherhood" – 11, "Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the people" – 8, "non-fractional" – 22 national MPs. Dear colleagues! The draft Law (Registration No. 0019) on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on Military Cooperation has been introduced for your vote. Dear colleagues, 0018 is a draft law on denunciation, a decree on the denunciation of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the field of military intelligence (registration number 0018). Please vote in general. Ukraine's Denunciation Act, 0018 is a registration number. [[10:41:31]] For 268. Decision taken. Next, please. Draft law on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on military cooperation (register No. 0019). There is a proposal for a profile committee to vote on the draft law as a whole. I'll put this motion to the committee for a vote, please. Please vote and vote. [[10:42:07]] For 272 Decision taken. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 119, People's Front – 66, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 27, Oleg Ljashka's Radical Party – 18, Fatherhood – 11, Rebirth – 0, Will of the People – 8 and 23 – non-fractional national MPs. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the following issues of order of the day, of vital importance. Dear colleagues, first reading, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (for the improvement and application of certain provisions of the law). (Registration number 2667) There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure - consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[10:43:18]] For 186 Decision taken. Please let me speak to the Head of the Legislative Security Committee. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u26	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You have before you Bill No. 2667, a bill amending the Public Prosecutor's Act. There is no secret that the reform of the prosecutor’s office in Ukraine has taken too long. Finally, in October 2014, Parliament was able to implement a new Law on Public Prosecutions, which was due to take effect on April 25th this year. At the same time, on April 21, this year, we passed the Law, by which we postponed the introduction of separate provisions of the new Procuratorial Act. This was a necessary step, since it was not possible to hold the first meeting of the Universal Conference of Prosecutors, nor to create local prosecutors. And here's the next draft of the Law, I hope the last one is 2667, which makes changes to the law. Along with the fact that the bill removes some of the shortcomings of the new law, well, technically speaking, the members drew the attention of the committee to the fact that its adoption is based on a situation where the progressive norms of the new Ukrainian Procurator's Act on the formation of the prosecutor's body and the implementation of disciplinary guidance to the full extent of the system of prosecutors' self-government and the formation of a training and disciplinary commission of prosecutors, the establishment of the prosecutor's system is postponed until 1 January 2016. Dear colleagues, it was. This bill is a political compromise, it's a bill made to allow the prosecution to work. But I assure you, after January 15. After July 15, the bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office, basic, European, will enter into force, and more, I think this Parliament will not make any changes until it enters into force. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for two, two for one, two against one, please. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u28	He's going to vote in favour of this bill and he's asking everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u30	I give the floor to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support this bill because it allows the functioning of the prosecutor's office to be normalized. At the same time, we insist that we cannot further delay the issue of reforming the public prosecutor's offices. They should be, according to European requirements and patterns, the prosecutor’s office should cease to be the body where bribes are taken, where violations close criminal cases on orders, or because they have taken and paid money, or because relatives are sitting, deciding whether or not to do so. The Public Prosecutor’s Office must cease to be an instrument of political dissuasion over political opponents. The Attorney General of Ukraine, we insist that he come to the Supreme Council every month and report on the results of his activities every year and every month. After the Dignity Revolution, society demands transparency, control, including law enforcement. We ask the Attorney General of Ukraine to make contributions to the members of the block of thieves, who are the losers of the Yanukovic gang, who have robbed the country, who are now hiding behind the parliamentary mandates that continue to dream of a rematch. Today we've seen how they didn't vote in favour of denouncing military agreements with Russia, so they're FSB agents doing the Kremlin's will to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. We're demanding a reduction, a radical reduction of organs, prosecutors, not just a reform and a formal reduction, but a real reduction. We demand that the public prosecutor's office not do it for money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u32	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u33	We believe that the investor will come to the country, that order will be in the country when we have independent justice, the non-political prosecutor's office. And we are willing to make every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Self-Help. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u35	Colleagues, I'm not speaking as a self-help representative right now, I'm speaking as the head of the Council Committee against Corruption. In this bill, we are asked to take a huge step back, a step that can put an end to all hopes of working at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. It is a matter of law that provides for the creation of an independent anti-corruption prosecutor and the selection of the first anti-corruption prosecutor by an independent commission, where the majority make up representatives of the public. Now, unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office, with the support of individual coalition leaders, is proposing that this first anti-corruption prosecutor be elected under the dictatorship of today's Attorney General. We all understand what this will lead to. My proposal, and many of my colleagues on the committee, and the public: let's keep most of the independent people on the competition committee that will elect the first anti-corruption prosecutor. I understand what the current heads of the Attorney General's Office are afraid of, along with individual parliamentarians, that the first anti-corruption prosecutor will gather and arrest them himself. And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u36	Please, Oleg Berezuk, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u37	In full support of what is now being said by Egor Sobolev, the Self-Help faction, giving itself and Parliament a chance, has decided that we are voting for it today in the first ultimatum reading. That in the second reading, if this balance is not found, we will not vote in favour of this law. But these two weeks we've been giving ourselves and Parliament to have a public debate and to make a decision that is fundamental to the development of the state and its legal system, not to play with the mimicry of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u38	Please, Leonid Yemen, People's Front. Then there's Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. For our faction, a few of the basic things were required to be adopted in the Procurator's Act. First of all, it's depriving the D.A. at last. Any kind of disqualification the D.A. wouldn't want to see. And I have to mark here the constructive position of the Attorney General with whom we had a serious discussion on this subject. And in this text of the bill, which is proposed, the general supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office is finally eliminated. The other one. Shortening the prosecutor's office, at least, twice. I must inform you that under this law, the prosecutor's office is reduced from 20,000 to 10,000. This, in our view, is only an intermediate step. Because, for example, there are only one thousand prosecutors in Japan for 130 million people, and we have 40, we have 10. But we understand that at this intermediate stage we have to move gradually. Of course, there are observations that have been made by our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u40	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u41	We're ready to work on them. The People's Front faction is ready to vote for the bill as a basis and join in the joint work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u43	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Now, on the next day, we have the opportunity to finally put a dot on the post-Radians Civil Service and move on to reform this body as a state attorney and a human rights defender, that's all. However, the bill itself does not change the system. Just today’s package of billing that applies to the entire law enforcement system radically changes the situation. Not only do we initiate reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but we also adopt the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, which is set out in the Constitution in 1996. The Procurator's Act was worked out by a working group, which included representatives of all factions. What's more, I got it as an author from the "self-help" MPs' flash drive. To my great surprise, it meant nothing. Today there are new arguments why this retreat is backward. No, gentlemen! This law leads us to the European prosecutor’s office. And better yet, an enemy of the good. The road will be strengthened by the one who goes on, not endlessly exhibiting new and new personal ambitions. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill, not to touch the labels on the colleagues they worked with in the working groups. And finally start reforming, not reforming!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u44	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, dear fellow Members, have had enough exchange of thoughts. I'm asking you to take your seats. We're moving on to the vote, dear colleagues. We're going to vote in favour of draft law, registration number 2667, on the basis of honorary colleagues. On a base, that's right. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Ready to vote? You have submitted 2667 draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act (with regard to the improvement and application of individual regulations) on a basis, colleagues, on a basis. Please vote and please support. Based on the base. [[10:56:20]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next questions on the agenda. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Improvement of Individual Regulations on Sudokusti, prepared by Ruslan Knazević (Registration No. 2860). There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:56:56]] For-191 Decision, 191, decision taken. Please, Ruslan Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u45	Thank you, Your Honor Mr. Head, your honorary colleagues, as you recall, after the adoption of the law on the right to a fair trial, we are reshaping the dutiful body in the system of judicial authority -- the Supreme Council of Justice. Literally the day before yesterday, Parliament actually captured, with the exception of one person, its quota in this constitutional body, and all the other organs almost filled it out. I remind you that according to the Constitution, it is made up of 20 people. But there are certain technical things that are very important to resolve, without which we simply cannot now start the work of the High Council of Justice. This is the part of the Supreme Council of Justice formed by the assembly of judges. During the adoption of the Law on the Enforcement of the Righteous Court, we made an exception to the reformation of the High Council of Justice right at the side of the assembly of judges. This was an informed decision, since the judges ’ reunion took place once a year and the last meeting of judges took place at the end of last year in order not to wait for this quota to be fulfilled, we made this exception to the consensus decision of all political factions. But in the Law on the Enforcement of the Righteous Court, we wrote that each part of, as it were, the source of the formation of the High Council of Justice, which appoints members of the High Council of Justice, should be made by those members of the High Council of Justice, right before the body that appointed them. With that in mind. That the next meeting of judges will take place at the end of this year, so as not to wait for this meeting of judges, is proposed to amend the "Transitional Regulations" of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice of the New Editorial. Where to foresee that, as an exception, those members of the High Council of Justice who were appointed to take office in the new law are sworn in at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The same is true of the question and the part of the members of the High Council of Justice that is assigned to the office. It is the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General and the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the decision? Absolutely technical questions about the taking of an oath. Is there no objection? Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The draft Act on Amendments to Some. 2860, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of individual provisions on matters of jurisdiction. There was a unique situation that Ruslan Petrovich had just reported. Therefore, there is a proposal on the basis and in general to vote in accordance with the committee’s own decision. So please, colleagues, get ready to give us the opportunity to make an oath and. Ready, colleagues? Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. 2860 in total. Please vote, please support. 2860, voting, colleagues. We vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:00:48]] For 241 Decision taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. The draft Law on Internal Affairs will now be an important package of laws on internal affairs prepared by the government, the ministry. We have Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Borisovich Avakov present and will report on these draft laws. Dear colleagues, you have been introduced with the draft Law (Registration No. 2561) on internal affairs. Internal Affairs Minister Arsen Borisovich Avakov will report. There's a suggestion to consider it as a simplified procedure, but as always, we're looking at how many questions there are, how many answers there are, so there are no limitations. So please, the proposal for a simplified procedure, but I'll give you an opportunity to make a statement on this point. Please consider the simplified procedure. [[11:02:01]] For 168 Please invite me to report to Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Borisovich Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u47	Good morning to everyone beautiful in embroidery and just beautiful! Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Mr. Head! Today, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is proposing to your attention a package of bills, including on internal affairs, on the National Police, on service services and service centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving road safety relations and amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, five bills. During their public discussion, during round tables, meetings, meetings, and other events, a number of valid, thorough comments, suggestions, and recommendations were expressed that were most taken into account in the drafting of these bills. We are particularly grateful for the coalition’s active position and fruitful cooperation in developing a new regulatory framework. We were greatly assisted by national deputies from various factions: Yuri Lucenko, Victor Chumak, Oksana Siro, Victor King and Nicholas Palamarczuk. Let me also thank all the indifferent MPs and representatives of the public who have joined in drafting the basic provisions of the bills. Ukraine's laws are aimed at eradicating corruption, optimizing resources, and building an effective IMF structure as a civilian and open home office and a national police. The National Police will be a separate central body of executive authority, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the Minister of Internal Affairs. Expenditure on management equipment will be kept to a minimum by the introduction of modern information and communication technologies and systems. The main priority in police work is to establish a partnership framework for interaction with territorial communities within the worldwide model of community policing. The adoption of legislation will allow for a higher level of protection of human rights, freedoms and legitimate interests, combating crime, maintaining public order and ensuring public security and, more importantly, bringing national legislation closer to the legal system of the European Union. The amended drafts also take into account the comments and proposals made by lawyers, scientists and legal professionals, international experts from the Council of Europe, the U.S. U.S. U.S. Advisory Mission. All of these international institutions have approved the draft laws that are now coming to your attention. The bill on internal affairs legislatively enshrines the status of the Ministry of Civil Affairs as a civil ministry that forms state policy in the right direction, as well as the legal and organizational principles for the activities of central executives in the field of internal affairs. Regarding the National Police Act. Let me stop at some money, first of all, the bill defines the national police system, which is the central authority of the administration and the territorial authorities. The National Police will be composed of: criminal and patrol police, security police, special police, and special-purpose D.C.R.D.D. are special forces. The main tasks are preventive and preventive activities: detection and investigation of crimes and administrative violations, assistance to those in need. In order to open up the system and ensure transparent selection, competitions are defined by established police commissions with the participation of public representatives – money. In order to minimize the risks of corruption and monitor the work involved in public participation in disciplinary commissions, police accountability is introduced not only to the government but also to the public. The draft law contains a procedure for the adoption by local authorities of a resolution of mistrust to the heads of the local authorities in the national police departments. To build partnerships with the population, police engagement with the public is foreseen through the preparation and implementation of joint projects and programmes to meet local needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u48	Arsene Borisovich, I would suggest, we are now considering the Law on Internal Affairs, now we will be co-reporting to the committee, not all five of us will be, we will be considering them in turn. That's why. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u49	I very much ask you to listen to a rather brief, complex report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u50	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u51	Because these bills are related.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u52	Please report, but this is how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u53	A, B. Thank you. For the first time, the law, not the law, will prescribe all police measures, including measures of coercion and the use of special means, establishing a clear framework of authority. That is, not in legal acts, but directly in the law. The aim of the draft Ukrainian Road Safety Act to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations is to improve relations in the field of road safety and to bring European standards closer to them. The main thing is to exclude the corruption component from detection and detection of offences, as well as to establish appropriate administrative protocols. These are new tools for the new quality of the first work. A completely reformed structure, which I hope you will be supported and will start working this summer. The main new lema of the bill is to shorten protocol time, increase the effectiveness of the police and minimize the risk of corruption, and introduce an electronic protocol, which is also a tool for monitoring the integrity of police work. Again, in order to minimize corruption risks, it is suggested that we give up the so-called "village of fines" and impose a fixed fine. We propose to take a minimum fine for today. The goal is not to rob and punish citizens, but to build new relations between the state and the citizen, to build a law-abiding society. To stimulate fines and road traffic rules, we offer a balance of strict procedures and liberal approaches. For example, the time limit for payment of fines will increase from 15 to 30 days. There's a 50 percent discount on the fine if you pay it over the last one. Three days. To facilitate the process, each patrol car will be equipped with a computer, a portable printer, a cash - free terminal on the spot, and connected to the crime database and the decision - making database. Regarding the draft Ukrainian Law on Service Services and Service Center of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine. The need for adoption of this bill is prompted by the urgent need to improve the quality of increased operationality and objectivity of the provision of services in the form of permits, certificates, certificates, and so forth, to facilitate the provision of these services by citizens, and to prevent corruption in this area. As a result of the public discussion, the bill clearly states that the service centre system will first exist in parallel with municipal administrative services and will be fully decentralized once the reform is completed, in accordance with the Administrative Services Act by 2017. This is the term during which we plan to radically reform existing systems, particularly the MREO. We're not going to invest budget costs in infrastructure, but we're going to propose to cut the number of services centers in terms of the current MREO by four times. We hope to invest in the process, in the database, in the workers. To this end, it is proposed that the fee for services be sent in accordance with the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 29 of the Budget Code, to the special fund of the State Budget of Ukraine. We want to show that because of corruption and ineffective MREO activities, the budget is losing a lot of money. The reform plan is simple, we don't paint the facade, we don't translate our problems into someone else's shoulders. There is a problem: corruption, the causes of corruption lie in various forms of help and services, reform will find a cause and eliminate it, where the source of corruption is a opaque procedure, for example, help-accounts, some groundless police approach to surveillance, and there are common problems. They are decided by delegation of authority from the manager to the registrar. Every employee who accepts a request for a civil service provides and responds to this service. I ask you, honourable members of the national parliament, to support these bills, which allow for the implementation of the new police's main mandate: to serve and protect. It is realistic to start reforms in several important ways of working with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u54	Thank you, Arseny Borisovich. Thank you, Arseny Borisovich. Please invite the head of the profile committee, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u55	Dear Chairman, I just don't understand why we're voting in short if we're going in full. Dear colleagues, the need to adopt this law of Ukraine, which would define a system of executives responsible for the state of internal security in the country, which requires a thorough modernization of the existing IMF system, bringing it into line with the best world standards of law enforcement organization, a departure from the current Soviet model for the construction of a law enforcement mechanism in which the militia dominates, a penal body with all known social disabilities and problems, has long grown. Therefore, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law No. 2561 of the Committee considered very carefully, the Committee on Law Enforcement, and made some observations and suggestions. The first is a violation of the terms of the Coalition Agreement, which provides for the granting of powers on the regulation of internal migration and registration of residence of the State Registration Service of the Ministry of Justice, but this is not included in the project; the preservation of the existing stockpiling of the IMF structure; the third is the authorization of the Minister of Internal Affairs for the selection of personnel, as well as financial, material and resource security; and the latter is a violation of the secret of personal and family life. All these comments and suggestions will be carefully discussed and processed during the preparation of the document for second reading. However, given that it is now imperative to launch a mechanism to continue the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the committee has adopted a decision: recommending it to the Supreme Council as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u56	Please sign two for, two for against, please, dear colleagues. Please, Yuri Chizmar. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable fellow members of the people's deputies, at last we awaited in this room, without exaggeration, an extremely important bill for our country to reform the law-enforcement sector, to reform the system of the Ministry's internal affairs bodies. I don't think there's anyone in this room or outside of it who doesn't realize the need to reform this criminal steel system. Let's think about the many reports of protectors being tortured in raids, killing people. As one of my countrymen, a young boy from Borznian, was killed in Shevchenków Ryviddill, and then wrote, "I fell off the bench." And we can give thousands and thousands of examples in years of independence. And that's why I want to thank the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Home Office team for finally coming to the House of Parliament with bills that allow for the reform of the law enforcement sector. What do we need? What is the purpose of these laws? The ultimate goal. People have to. Arseny Borisovich, people should stop being afraid of the militia. So that when a person sees a militiaman, he sees him as a defender, not a bandit in a form that will drag him to the doorway or to the station, he robs, rapes, beats, and praises God that he will not kill. People should see in the militia of a protector, a man who comes to help. So it's not like my grandparents called today, the chickens stole the villages, and the locals stole the villages, one in 10 villages, and there's nothing to get to, and no one's opening those crimes. Therefore, the main objective of the reform required by the Radical Party is to turn internal affairs not into reprisals, and those who protect people protect their rights. We will vote for such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev Dear colleagues, an extremely important block of laws that we will be considering today, are laws that deal with the restructuring of internal affairs reform. It's really said that we've got internal affairs to this day, I'd say, repressive bodies in terms of political opponents and repressive bodies in terms of commercial competitors. They did virtually nothing but cracking and scraping. We've talked about this a long time ago, about the necessary changes and reforms in internal affairs, about the transition and creation of a normal European police force. But that law that we're talking about today with you, the first of these four laws, (and I'm saying that some of them need to be supported, some of them don't), it's actually quite controversial. Why? First of all, it is a special law that sets up a separate system of organs for a single ministry in Ukraine. For others, there is no special law that governs or directs the relationship between the Ministry and the special central authorities that it coordinates. Moreover, I want to say that in fact, most of the relationships referred to in this bill are already regulated in Ukrainian legislation today. The question of the minister's political office is regulated by the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. The relationship between ministries and central executive bodies is regulated by the Law on Central Executive Authorities. So, in large numbers, I think that this body is simply, this law duplicates today the norms that are already in law. But what's more, they're being fixed there, in my opinion, some standards that can't be accepted. That is, becoming part of the internal affairs system of the higher educational institutions of internal affairs. There are no such facilities. There are police educational institutions, there are foreign education institutions, there are DNS educational institutions. They have to function like that. There are no internal organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u60	Please, 10 seconds, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u61	Moreover, article 17 allows in principle to work for a political body – the Ministry – with all the databases run by the police. In my view, it is still a very dangerous cause and a dangerous opportunity to work for the political body.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich. Please, 10 more seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u63	That's why I would, I'd like to go over this draft law, work out this bill so that there's no corruption roads or roads that are essentially dangerous enough for citizens and then look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u64	Please, Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u65	Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u66	Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u67	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223-1 District, Kiev City. The Home Office, the British Ministry of Internal Affairs, was talking about something here. He must have felt that he did not only know what it was, but he did not even get close to him. Because if he knew what the British Ministry of Internal Affairs was like, he wouldn't have allowed his subjects to literally a few days ago, and more than once, they're beating people in Kiev, especially on the Osokarks, covering for the aunts, and they're continuing what they were doing, in fact, in Maidan and in Middan, they're just doing ordinary banditry, they're bullying activists. And there's this guy talking about Nome Office. And let the Minister of Internal Affairs tell you about Chebotar, his first deputy, who was caught taking a black cashier who sells office in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this Chebotar. Instead of letting him go, he was covered up, then his parents beat up journalists, and now he's supposedly released, and in fact, he's sitting in the same office, having a fax to his successor, and he's just faxing fax on those papers, and he's an official, by the way, state advisor, official state councillor of the interior minister. So before you talk about Nome Office you first deal with corruption, you get rid of your people who are still bullying the Ukrainians. And this bill, on the other hand, continues to offer your corruption system even more authority, and you still have enough authority. And now you suggest that the Minister of Internal Affairs has the right to develop one-on-one appropriate methods of selecting people in internal affairs. And on the basis of these methods, it is also appropriate to appoint appropriate persons to positions of office. That is to say, he will continue to appoint all the tax collectors and any other such corruptors to the respective positions not only of deputies, heads of departments, departments, and so forth. I mean, we can't vote for this kind of thing. Before you increase the mandate of an active Ministry, an active minister, you first deal with the crimes you are engaged in. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u68	Please, Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the package proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and the Cabinet of Ministers of Law is a huge step forward in Ukraine's European future. To this day, we have legislation, the police, adopted in 1991. We live in the Soviet Police Act. A great deal of work has been done to bring about a package of laws that can streamline the work of the police to make them truly European. Following the adoption of the Law on Internal Affairs of the National Police, the Minister of the Interior will be a political figure. These laws are not passed by Habakkuk's Council; they are enacted to effectively protect the rule of law and the future of our country. In order to protect the interests of every citizen, regardless of who was the minister. In doing so, I would also like to say, honourable deputies, that if we now vote in favour of these laws on first reading and a few weeks later on second reading, that does not mean that an entire militia is changing. This is a long process of reform that will protect every citizen, and every citizen will see that an internal affairs officer is responsible for his or her actions even more than every citizen for his or her own. I ask all MPs and non-fractional MPs to support this bill in their first reading, to propose their amendments and additions, and to enact a package of laws in June this year so that by the end of the year, the police and every citizen can feel the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Captain, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The Self-Help faction won't support Bill 2561 and we'll explain why. This bill has nothing to do with police reform. Nothing to do with it. It's only about cementing the IMF's cumbersome system that exists today -- it doesn't fit the Constitution, and it doesn't fit our Coalition Agreement with you. I only remind you: Article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine where it is clearly stated that the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all powers are determined by the Prime Minister and the Government. We have no right with you to define these powers in the law. And secondly, this law violates human rights because the Ministry of Internal Affairs receives unhindered access whiter than 40 registers, which means human rights violations without any control and without any rules of access to these registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u72	Yes, dear colleagues, I think we've been exchanging thoughts on this. And please, Yuri Lucenko, and please ask the deputies to take their seats, we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today is indeed a crucial day for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for today it can really be converted from the Soviet NCSC, which it is to this day, into a civil service that coordinates, on behalf of the government, the activities of the law enforcement system. This law is proposed for the Ministry of Internal Affairs to clearly define its functions after the creation of the National Police. What will the civil European Ministry of Internal Affairs do? It will deal with: education, medicine, communication, database building, and the backing of those central executive bodies that it coordinates -- that's the right thing to do, it takes away the functions of an ineligible European minister. On the other hand, it reduces five times the support staff of five separate departments and, on the third hand, it finally ceases to be the penal organ that it is to this day. Please vote for both this and the following laws developed by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u74	Please finish, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u75	The Ministry of Internal Affairs, together with the working group of parliament, is really a huge step forward towards European reforms. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's prepare for the vote. A draft law (registration number 2561) has been introduced. The Internal Affairs Bill is the first step in systematic reform of the country's internal affairs bodies. And it is good that such decisions are prepared by the Ministry today and are made in the hall. We're talking about that we're looking at this bill as a basis. Between the first and the second readings we will be able to work with you together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs to make this law better. So I urge everyone to support and vote it as a basis and to start a sufficiently serious discussion and preparation for the second reading. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. A draft Ukrainian Law on Internal Affairs (Registration No. 2561) has been introduced for your vote. On the basis of that, I'm stressing it. Ready? Please vote on the ground, colleagues. Based on the base. [[11:29:25]] For 245 Decision taken, colleagues. And I would ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs, together with factions of deputies, even those who didn't support us to work out and be a good law on the way out. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Draft National Police Act (Registration No. 2822). There is also a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure, but as we agreed that all factions would be able to comment on it. Please have the minister's suggestion to consider a reduced procedure, identify yourself, respectable colleagues, consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. This is also the first reading. [[11:30:21]] For 208 Please, Mr. Minister. He reported it to everyone. Please, Andrew Cosemyakin, head of the profile committee. Andrew Anatolyevich, 2822 Huh?Oh, my God! Excuse me, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. I'm sorry, Andriy Anatolyovich. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Then there's the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'm reporting the National Police Act on behalf of the profile committee. It is known that such a law was introduced early this year. After that, he had an alternative from our colleagues. After that, a working group was formed, and with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Deputy Minister Eko Zguladze, work was done on a harmonized joint document. This is the agreed document, the joint document is now being proposed to you. What are its main advantages? In fact, we're dealing with a revolutionary document that will radically change the Ukrainian militia system. We are moving to the European form of the National Police and there are five changes: The first is a clearly defined structure of the Ministry. For the first time, it is clearly defined in the law and consists of five blocks rather than one and a half hundred squares that were previously drawn in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Next up, it's an assignment. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine appoints the head of the National Police, a professional officer who will be the chief chief of all police in Ukraine. This eliminates the political, and especially the party, influence on this structure, which should serve the law and no one else. The head of the National Police is also on his own through competitive commissions, but on his own, in disagreement with politicians, the heads of the national police at the district and district levels. The next revolution is to introduce the concept of "police commissions", which consists of representatives of the public. Who are delegated by the Office of the Ombudsman – at the central level or appropriate council – at a lower level for recruitment through the National Police staff competition and their leadership. A very important revolutionary step for the police, they're going to have a four-pronged contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u78	Please finish, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u79	And two years of contract is for middle and lower workers, and this will ensure the stability of their work. The more, with every politician, minister, deputy minister or governor coming, the police will not change, the stability of the work, the stability of the authorities of the National Police. The next revolution. The local councils, as they decide, may express their mistrust to any police patrol officer. Where are the branches, the PPS, the special. Sorry, today's HAI and so on. All police officers working on the street with people, not operas, not investigators, all police officers serving the population may be released by decision of the majority of the relevant council. And that's very true, because the minister never knows what he's doing in the village, and the MPs know that, and they can fix the personnel mistake. The next and last important money – the admission of new police officers through the competition, what Ms. Eka Zguladze started at the reception of police officers in Kiev and other cities, will be extended to the order of admission to the police throughout Ukraine. I think this law is going to get a lot of votes in the hall, and it's going to be the funeral bell behind the NCSC and the good news for the new European police. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two for, two against. To the words of Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, please head. The report is the head of the profile committee, then the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I am now acting as a member of the Fatherland faction, Andrew Cosemiakin. For those who have read this bill, I want to say that it contains 103 articles that are in line with the Rules. A bill that has more than a hundred articles cannot be considered procedurally on a reduced procedure. Colleagues, yesterday, really, supported the committee in the first. take the basis of this bill. But we think it's a complicated project, it's been controversial enough, and more than an hour yesterday, along with the prime minister, we discussed this National Police Act. But we all understand that reforms need to be promoted, they need to go, including law enforcement. Therefore, the "Paternity" faction will support this bill after the second reading, provided that the following rules are clarified in this bill: the periodicity of continuous information by the National Police of State Authorities; the further reference to the tasks of the National Police on the contractual principles of the protection of individuals and objects of private and municipal property rights; the explicit determination in the text of the draft of a position that any delay by the police of a natural person is a countdown to keeping it in specially designated premises from the moment of its actual detention and otherwise. In addition, we wanted a review of the position on the age limit for the senior officer’s staff. Because the people who are 45 and 50 years old, who are the colonels, the generals who may have passed and Afghanistan, the ATO, they cannot be deprived of their right to work for Ukraine. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill on the basis of the amendments that will come to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u82	Please, people's MP Urbansky, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u83	Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd like to give the floor to the National Deputy Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u84	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! I want to ask you to uphold this law. The National Police Act. I was one of the co-authors of the alternative bill. But I think that this bill is so important that today there is a need to take any alternative bill in order to start a real work on creating a European police force. I want to say that there are, in fact, a lot of novelties that form the basis for both the police and the police, and the criminal police to work as real law enforcement organs of a normal European state. But I think that we're all going to have to do a few things with you to improve this bill, and very carefully, very clearly say, what exactly are the functions, what exactly are the tasks that are assigned to each police activity. In other words, I think we will have to think very carefully, very carefully, about how the police should work, because there is still some non-proprietary function in this law for the police state, namely, commercial protection of certain objects, for a normal European country. I think we're going to have to look very carefully at the training of police personnel and the primary admission to police work through police commissions because there are some disagreements. In general, I want to tell you that this is a huge step forward. But at the same time, this step is not enough to meet the needs of society in a normal, civilized police force today. I think today's the biggest problem is the return of confidence in the police. This law should be the first step in restoring confidence in the police in our country. So I would like to invite you all to support this bill. At the same time, this bill has already been adopted by experts from the Council of Europe, experts from the European Mission for Police Activities, experts from the European Commission. I'd like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u85	Finish up, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u86	So that this bill would not be considered as a normal procedure, but was given another week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Another week at least to process it in the second reading in a careful, very careful way, because it's both big and important to society. And you don't have to take it in such a hurry as this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, People's Republic Deputy Masorin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u89	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Respectable Ukrainian people! The National Police Act, unlike the Soviet Militia Act, lays down in detail procedures for the relations of domestic workers with citizens. Only one section of the “Possibility of Use of Force or Firearms” covers 4-5 pages, detailing all possibilities, all rights. I can say that this law will remove a large number of small conflicts that have arisen between the citizens and the police, based on the fact that many of these were previously prescribed in orders that were not known to society. I recommend that all members of the people, regardless of the committee in which they are located, be informed before the second reading of the National Police Act. I recommend that all Ukrainian citizens who want to demonstrate their right of initiative also learn about this law and improve it until second reading. But I can tell you that this law is needed by Ukraine. And I am grateful to all the deputies and leaders of factions who support it. Ukraine must live a new life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u91	Yuri Chizmar, Radical faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, the reform of internal affairs and the police is an essential issue for Ukrainian society. We know how many complaints there are before these law enforcement agencies about the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. That's why this law needs to be considered, but really it needs to be considered in a more broad sense, not in a reduced procedure, because so many norms and so much money need to be discussed clearly, where we really would not quickly adopt some kind of a little reform from this law, but really have a thorough approach to changing the national police system. The radical faction will support this bill, because it contains revolutionary novels that provide for us, first and foremost, the ability of local self-government authorities and the local community to control the activities of the national police. And that novel that refers to the possibility of expressing mistrust and liberating patrols, stations and others to direct these divisions, that's an important novelty, because today the lawlessness that they create is uncontrollable cannot have a place in the future. I consider the law positive. I think he's depoliticizing the police itself and putting it under the control of local communities. Please, everyone, and I urge you to support me. But in the second reading, it should still be considered in full procedure and discussed accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u92	Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u93	Andrew Kožemiakin, “The Fatherland. ” I'd like to add to the performance I've already had from the rostrum. What no one is saying right now, and I'm sure Mr. Arsen Borisovich will back me up. That a group of national deputies working in the Supreme Council, who are professional, who are professionals, including members of our committee, are both Mr. Kostenko, and Mrs. Sotnik, and Mrs. Siroid, and Mr. Yemen, they, upon request, after having conducted these analysis of this project, went at everything to call him back and give him the opportunity to give way. So today that bill that was prepared by our colleagues is really based on the Polish model, this law that was prepared professionally, professionally. Today almost everything, 90 percent is concentrated in the National Police Bill, which today is represented by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But I'd like to ask again. Please be more specific about the position on social protection of police personnel, once. And the second. This is a refinement of the nature of the service in the national police. Is this a public service or a professional activity? Article 58. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u94	Please, Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction will support this bill in the first reading. Because we think that this bill is the first step, really, in reforming the organs of the IMF, unlike the previous one. There are two important points. The first moment is important. At last, we're dividing the political function and the operational management function that will be attached to the national police. There are still a number of shortcomings in this bill. That is why we take, including the obligation to work on it in the second reading, and all colleagues are invited to work actively on the bill so that we will not be ashamed later and that we will actually introduce new approaches to the selection of police personnel, particularly through competitive principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we've said enough. We can start voting on the draft law (registration number 2822) of the National Police Act. We have heard the report and the author today, and the committee's report, the committee heads, has been exchanged and there is a complete understanding of what we can accept today on the basis of this important bill. So, Your Honor, please prepare for the vote, Your Honourable Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, please. Please be prepared. Your vote is based on a draft law (registration number 2822). Please prepare for the vote. Please vote on the 2822 draft National Police Act as a basis. Please vote. [[11:46:50]] For 284 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, the draft law (registration number 2890), the draft Law on Municipal Watch, is being submitted to your consideration. For decades local self - government authorities have looked forward to this decision, and the issue is finally being considered with a cluster of law enforcement issues. Please have a suggestion from Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. In short, the municipal guard is under reduced procedure. [[11:47:32]] For-195 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the law that is now being proposed to your mind is to become part of the architecture of the relationship between law enforcement and local self-government. In and outside this room, we talk a lot about decentralization and transfering certain functions from Kiev to the site. This law makes such conversations real. What is the Municipal Guard? These are specially designed units in cities that will perform law - enforcement functions. So patrolling along with the National Police, as well as performing control functions that entail administrative fines for parking violations, for misinstallation of small architectural forms and other things. This bill allows cities that need to enter, issue funds to increase order in their streets. For example, there is a problem of drug abuse in Bloody Rose, which everyone knows. So the mayor can increase patrolling along with the IMF of the respective districts. Kiev in Pechersk has a problem of traffic jams that are created by misparking. So the mayor can create special units and finance them to deal with these problems. Finally, we give cities a mechanism to solve the problems that people live in places, that they can't take to Kiev, they have to give authority to cities. I underline that the Municipal Guard will never perform police functions, it's only the Municipal Guard: fines, order, municipal security (dot). We also agree with the suggestions made by deputies, which we are sure to make in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u98	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u99	In cities where the Municipal Guard is to be created, today’s administrations that duplicate these functions should be abolished. For example, the Governing Body, other administrations whose functions will be transferred to the Municipal Guard, will be canceled. There will be no more examiners, but they will be created in one modern European body. Please vote in favour, therefore continue our policy of decentralization and strengthening the powers of electoral councils in places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a clarification, just what Yuri Vitaliyovich said, the language is that other inspection structures will be abolished, not well-managed, and the inspection structures will no longer be provided with such powers. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u101	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The committee has considered the draft Municipal Watch Act (number 2890) and with the adoption of this bill we will see more clearly the architecture for reforming Ukraine's law enforcement system. The bill defines the legal and organizational principles as already stated by Mr. Jury, according to the project, the objective will be achieved by establishing local councils at the legislative level to create municipal value, to fund at the expense of the relevant local budget, or by other sources not prohibited by legislation, and to play a role under the control of local communities of the rule of law and the rule of law mechanism. The bill defines municipal value as an authority in the local self-government system for the purpose of providing security in the territory under the jurisdiction of the relevant council, the protection of public order -- once, the rule of law -- two, rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens -- three and that is important. The principle is that the municipal watch units will not be part of the structure of the local authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So yesterday, after considering the bill at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Security recommended that the draft be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, sign up for two, two for the other. Is there a need? Is that right? Please two for, two for against, please sign in. People's MP Lensky, Radical Party. Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u103	Honorable Parliament! Dear Chairman! Ukrainian people! The Radical Party faction will support this bill in the first reading, the fact that the party leader is one of the co-authors. But at the same time, we believe that serious additions must be made to the second reading, namely, that the number of municipal guards should be determined in one city or another. And in our opinion, there must be a free organ that will allow some authorities of local self-government to double the municipal value. Why do I say that? Because there's a threat that city heads like Kernes, like Son and their like, create their own private armies, take the "tear" there, and they'll operate under cover in their cities. There is a threat that in the East, separatists can shape troops in the form of municipal watchtowers. So what I'm now proposing is to support and make substantial corrections by focusing on the situation in the country, on the war in the East, on the whole of the problem that is, the events that took place on the Osocracy yesterday. And where she was if there was a municipal guard, there's no telling how she'd behave. We vote on the basis and we work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues! This law provides for no military uniforms, no weapons. Please, Your Honor, Yuri Bereza, the People's Front, but it's obviously going to be worked together by all of us, so that it doesn't contain any threats to the second reading -- it's obvious. Please, Yuri Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u105	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u106	Mikola Trohimovich Fedoruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the authors of the law and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for introducing this law to the Supreme Council. Discussions about this municipal police (formerly referred to as this) have been going on for more than, perhaps, a half and a half years since the late 1990s. Sadly, however, the opposition of the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not allow cities to have a municipal watchtower, which, as in European countries, was the problems that the reporter Yuri Lucenko spoke about. The People's Front faction will have to support this bill. True, the second reading requires further work — in part, to establish the marginality that may be in one city or another, or in the unified communities of this municipality, so that local governments, along with those powers in the decentralization of our power, have the means to solve the problems that the law will face before the municipal value. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u108	Please, Sergey Vlasenko. Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the "Fatherland" faction co-authored this bill. But no matter what we support in the first reading. I would like to pay attention to the four key positions that are and that need to be determined immediately on the second reading. First, we need to clearly establish the legal status of the municipal guard. For the simple record that it is an organ of local self - government does not respond to how the work of this body will be regulated. And don't God, we'll actually get a duplicate of the police function or how this is going to be the National Police Municipal Guard. The second, which is equally important, must be a clear list of offences in which the functions of municipal watch should be applied. And likewise, they cannot cross the functions of the National Police and the Municipal Guard. Thirdly, we need to understand clearly what the contractions are. Their clear list should be one that can be applied to municipal value so that once again there will be no questions in court for those who work directly at municipal watch. And lastly, it's a question of numbers and where municipal watch organs can be created. For example, to our deep belief, they can't be created in conditions where occupation is, because the general record of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, the same Donetsk, Lugansk region, if it's occupied territories, we can't allow the creation of a municipal watch, because it's actually going to be the legalization of terrorist groups, or worse, Russian and other leases. But in general, we think we need to support the law on a basis and continue to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, National MP Pober, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u111	Please give the floor to a specialist in this field to Colonel General Palamarczuk Mikoli Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u112	Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the bill is very timely. Local communities need to be allowed to form a watchtower to ensure order in local authorities. I would like to say that this bill corresponds to European patterns, and of course this bill is not entirely perfect, but this bill is necessary. I therefore urge my colleagues to vote in favour of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Andrew Illenko. Then Igor Nasalik. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u115	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, despite what there is, it has already been said that there are some technical flaws in this bill, of course, the idea of municipal watch, it deserves to be embodied, and on the basis of which we will vote in favour. But the principle of refinement needs to be made for the second reading. We believe that this law should enter into force no later than January 1, 2016. Because, imagine, there's still a lot of "regionals" sitting on local councils right now, hidden separatists. They're now going to use them to create some kind of force that can destabilize the situation, especially in the local elections in a few months. Moreover, it is hardly appropriate to create such municipal values not only in occupied areas, but also in the front zone. This can also be used to some extent to destabilize. So the idea is right, but we need to work on it, take into account all these threats, in our view, it has to start not earlier than January 1st next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u116	Thank you. Igor Nasalik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u117	Dear friends, I ask you not to overestimate the novelty or any radicalism of this law. The Law on Local Self - Rule allows local authorities to create city watchtowers today. Yes, for example, there has been a city guard in Kaluchi for 10 years, 10 years. What functions does it perform? Well, especially school security, hospital security, law enforcement. However, I would ask you very much not to make the mistakes made in the second reading. In particular, they did not determine the amount needed by city councils because they budget it and finance it directly from their finances. Therefore, the number and functioning of the city watch should not be imposed on local authorities. And I'm asking you to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall, we will now proceed to the vote on an important bill. And I agree that before the second reading, we will be able to find with you all the necessary mechanisms to create a quality municipal value that will work for citizens to ensure quality conditions, order in the territories and so on. So please, everyone, please concentrate. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. A draft law (registration number 2890) has been introduced for your consideration. I, by the way, use my right to continue for 15 minutes a session of Parliament. 2890: draft Municipal Guard Act. Based, based on. I'd like your support, Your Honor. This law is supported by all authorities of local self - government, as well as by appropriate associations. Please support the draft Municipal Guards Act. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:03:30]] For 288 Thank you to all the distinguished national deputies for their support. Please don't leave the People's Chamber. Honcherenko, please don't leave the People's Deputies Hall! Please remain in your seats. We're going to vote on one more question, and I'm going to call it a break. Dear colleagues, we have a question that we have discussed, and it is not the first day that needs to be resolved. That's the question: The Supreme Council's ruling on the election of judges. The decision was made in factions and the committee was generalized. As the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will now read it to you. Please. Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Onuško Natalija Mikolayevna; Kivertskie District Court of Volinsky District, Victoria Vitaliyevna; Koveli District Court of Volin district of Boychuk Petr Yuhimovich; The Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Artisz Jaroslav Danilovich, as well as Plachti Inna Borisovna, The Novovolin City Court of the Volin Region of Usakow Mikolaiovich; Nicolel City Court of Dnipropetrov, Runcheva Olen Viktorovna; Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Misurkaterina Volodymyrna; The Long-Term District Court of the Horn of Kreeb Dnipropetrovsk district of Paparigu Barvar Anatoliyevna; Andrushew District Court of the Zitomir district of Chub Inna Anatoliyevna; The Malin district court of the Jítomir district of Jarmolenko Volodymyr Viktorovich; The Novograd Wallin County Court of the Žitomir Region of Litwin Olga Alexiyevna; Ovrutsky District Court of the district of Žitomir, Kulinic Jaroslav Valeriyovich; The Mukatov District Court of Zakarpatsk, Nosov Volodymyr Volodymyrovich; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Čepurnov Vadim Aleksandrović; The Hustian District Court of the Zakarpat district of Sidei Jaroslav Jaroslavovich; The Grand Belozer District Court of the Provincial Region of Rogoz Anna Yuriovna; Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye Region Gorbachev Yuli Viktorovna Orikhov District Court of Zaporozhye District of Pleščištevo Oksana Valentinovna; Priazova District Court of Zaporozhye district of Vasiltsov Hanna Anatoliyovna; Zaporozhye Sinietnik Ruslan Vasilovic, Industrial District Court of Zaporozhye; The Commune District Court of Zaporozhye Kulik, Victoria Borisovna and Nautical Irina Josephovna; Johno-Frankow City Court of Ivano-Frankow District of Kovaljuk Ivan Petrovna; The Svetan district court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kalinovsk Mikhail Mikhailovich; Vasilkov District Court of Kiev Kravchenko Lesy Mikolayevna; The Supreme District Court of Kyiv district of Ruduk Aleksija Dmitrovic; Preslav-Hmalnicki District Court of Kyiv District of Krequez Jaroslav Igorovna; The Fastev District Court of Kyiv, Subotin Andrija Valeriyovich; The Novomirgorod District Court of the Kirovograd Region of Orendovsk Vladimir Anatoliyovich; Kirovsky District Court of Kirovgrad Mohonko Vitalin Volodymyrna; The Kazankov District Court of the Mikolai district of Ishchenko Christian Valerievna; The Central District Court of the City of Mikolayeva, Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna; Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk City Court of the Odessa Region of Zaverju Valentina Alexiyovich; The Bologna District Court of the Odessa Region of Rac Vladimir Anatoliyovich; Ivanów District Court of the Odessa Region of Pogorjelov Igor Viktorovich and Timchuk Ruslan Mikolaiovich; Ishmael City Court of Odessa, Bannikov Natalya Volodymyrna; The Killia District Court of the Odessa Region of Masleników Alexander Akimovitch; The Cominternov district court of the Odessa district of Viennese Natalia All-involved; Tarutin District Court of Odessa, Tonchev Natal Mikolayevna; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Séged Olen Mikhaylovna; The Grebinkov District Court of the Tatishtevo District of Poltava, Jan Viktorovna; Kuznetsov City Court of the district of Rivna district of Malkva Valerija Volodymyrovich; The Ravenna City Court of the Orechovsk district of Orechovské Kristina Eduardovna; Suma District Court of the Suma District of the Black Oksana Mikolayevna; The district court of Ternopil district of Levkov Andrija Ivanovich, Oleschuk Bogdan Tarasovich; Lanovecki District Court of Ternopil District of Radoszuk Andrija Vasilovich; Ternopil's Regional Court of Ternopil, Basan Lubomir Theodorovitch, Bratasuk Viktor Mikolaiovich, Djubanovski Yuri Igorovich, Kuncio Sergio Volodymirovich; Walkow District Court of Kharkiv District, Tokmakow Alla Petrovna; The Dergachev District Court of Kharkiv district of Nechiporenko Inna Mikolayevna; Kegichov District Court of Kharkiv District, Kust Natalija Mikolayovna; Chuguyiv City Court of Kharkiv District of Obolen Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The Grand Duchy of the Herson District Court of Haponenk Roman Vasilovich; The High-Paul district court of the Hersonian district of Goodylin Julius Yuriovna; The Hellenic District Court of the Berlimov district of Berlimov Julius Hennadian; Kolchuk Olen Valerievna, District Court of the Hersonian District; The Suvorov District Court of Herson Gontar Dmitr Aleksandrovitch; Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna district of Durres Ivan Volodymirovich; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmelnicka District of Pindrak Alexander Alexandrovich; The Chemerovetsk District Court of the Hmelnick district of Borsuk Valerija Alexiyovich; Watutin City Court of Cherkas Region Hail Valery Andryovich; The Catherinapil District Court of the Cherkas region of Baranov Oleg Ivanovich; The Cherka district court of the Cherka district of Sokoshin Forest Bogdanovna; The Transnistrian District Court of Cerkasa Kondratsky Natalija Mikolayovna, Stepanenko Alexandr Mihajlovich; The Zastavnovsky District Court of the Czernovec Region of Puharev Olen Vasilovna; The Novoseltsky District Court of the Czernovetsk Region, Gennady Alexandrovich; The first-level district court of the town of Chernivci of Galican Oleg Ivanovich, Stocko Larissa Anatoliyevna, Skulak Igor Anatoliyovich, Fedin Alina Vasilovna; The Bahmach district court of the district of Chernigiv district of Parhomenek Pavel Ivanovich; Bobrovicki District Court of Chernigiv County, Boyko Valentine Ivanovna; Ichnyan district court of Chernigiv district of Ovcharik Vasil Mikolaiovich; The Coropian District Court of Chernigiv district of Balabu Oksana Anatoliyevna; The District Court of Chernigiv County of Kovalenka Anatolia Vasilovich; Semenov district court of the district of Chernigiv district of Smag Sergija Valeriyovich; The Sosnic District Court of Chernigiv district of Stelmah Andrija Petrovich; Talalaiiv District Court of the Chernigiv district of Tishchenko Ludmila Viktorovna; Righteous District Court of Czernigov Grigoriev Ruslan Hennadiyovich, Samus Ludmila Volodymyrovna; Dniprost District Court of Kyiv Astakhov Aleksandr Alexandrovna, Kuril Andrija Vitaliyovich; Obolon District Court of Kiev Majboženko Anna Mikolayovna; The Solomonese District Court of Kiev, Shevchenko, Lilia Victorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kyiv Kwashu Antonin Valerievna Wynnick County Administrative Court of Vilchinsk Alexander Vanadijovich, Chernuk Allu Jurijovna; Volin County Administrative Court of Waldiner Felix Arnoldovich; The Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court of Jukhno Irina Valerievna; Žitomir District Administrative Court Lip Vladimir Anatoliyevich, Nagorniak Mikola Fedorovic, Chernov Han Valerievna, Nikhivich Irina Eduardovna; The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of Lutsovic Mikhail Mikhailovich; Private District Administrative Court Lazarenko Maksim Sergiyovich, Prasov Aleksandra Alexandrovich, Tatarinova Dmitra Viktorovic; Kirovgrad District Administrative Court Hilko Love Ivanovna; Mikolaiev District Administrative Court of Bionosenko Vladimir Viktorovich, Gordijenko Tetjana Alexandrovna; Odessa District Administrative Court Boyko Oksana Jaroslavna, Butenka Andrija Volodymyrovich, Vidou Leonid Ivanovich, Samyluk Hanna Pavlovna, Dancer Catherine Aleksyivna, Tarashina Oksana Mikolayevna; The Sumerian District Administrative Court of Helet Svetlana Mikhailnovna, Kunec Olen Mikolayovna, Pavlicek Victoria Alexandrovna, Prilipczuk Alexandr Anatoliyovich; Herson District Administrative Court Vasilak Dmitry Kostinović
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite members of the House.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u120	The Hellenic District Administrative Court of Master Polycarp Mihajlovich, Saluk Petar Ivanovich, Shevchuk Alexander Petrovich; Cerkas District Administrative Court of Gabrielus Vasil Aleksandrovitch, Timoshenko Valentine Petrovna; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court of Bodnaruk Oleg Vasilovich, Dembitký Pavel Dmitrović, Kushner Vitalina Alexandrovna; Czernigovina District Administrative Court of Borodawkin Svetlana Volodymyrovna, Cereal of Larissa Alexandrovna, Padei Valentine Vasilovna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Bondarev Edouard Mikolayovich, Nazarenko Natalija Grigorovna, Sukhovarov Artem Volodymirovich; The Land Court of the Gitomir district of Predko Oksana Vasilovna, Schnit Alona Vasilovna; the Commercial Court of Johno-Frankiv district of Valeev Talia Emirinowna, Tkachenko Irina Viktorovna; the commercial court of the Kyiv district of Gorbasenko Pavel Volodymyrovich, Sokurenko Larissa Vitaliyovna, Trilyakov Oksana Olegovna; Taras Bogdanović, farm court of the Lviv region; The finest Vladimir Davidovich, the court-martial of the Odessa region; Kharkov County Economic Court Dobrol Natal Sergiyevna, Pogorlova Olen Vadimovna, Sujarko Tetjana Dmitrovna; The court-marine Bogdanovna of the court-martial of the district of Herson; and the court-martial of Kyiv Gavrylovsk Irina Alexandrovna, Kurdelchuk Igor Danilovich and Privalov Artem Igorovich; Wynnicki District Administrative Court Alchuk Maksim Petrovich, Vorobyov Inna Anatoliyevna, Dmitry Ruslan Mikolayovna, Zdankin Natalija Volodymyrovna, Polishchuk Irina Mikolayovna, Svenduha Vitalija Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we will now, when we vote, announce a recess. I will put to the vote two more laws that apply. We will vote, consider two more laws, as well as the inclusion in the schedule of the draft Law on Service Services and Service Centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which have been announced by the Minister of Internal Affairs. But in view of the fact that we cannot now consider these bills, we will consider it during a break of 12.30. Or I have an offer not to announce a recess, now to vote the ruling on the judges and to continue the consideration of the law enforcement laws that the Minister of Internal Affairs has made. Colleagues, I suggest you don't announce a break at all, if you don't deny it and vote, then we'll look at it. Have you noticed? Let me read it. Excuse me, and the court-martial of the Kharkiv district of Novikov Natalija Anatoliyevna. Dear friends, there is an offer for us to work without interruption. Is it accepted? Signaled to keep you on and on. And the court-martial of the Kyiv district of Bacuza Vitali is in line with the committee's decision. There's Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, please. Let's prepare for the vote, we have a number of important laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I ask that you remove from this list the judge of the Czernovec District Court, Fedin Alina Vasilovna, who carried out distance trials and followed the direction of the Party of the Regions, making legally unfounded decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u122	Another name, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u123	Fedina, the Court of First Instance of the Chernovets region, the city of Chernivci.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u124	So, now announced by Nicholas Trochymovic, we're getting out of this list and voting separately. Please, Andrew Lozny Faction Lazka. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u125	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. As one of our former presidents said, in fact, all the judges are dowry. It's not the only time I'm close to agreeing with him. My colleague Vlasenko and I have just returned from the Parje Legal Committee, where we have just discussed the issue of corruption in the courts, and when colleagues from European Parliaments tell us that some judges are being set up, they don't believe. It's just not on your head. I always remember the story of the great Gerard David "The Court of Cambis," which was executed on the order of the Bruga M.E., and I would like this painting to hang in every Ukrainian court. There they remove the skin from Sisamena’s court, which took bribes, and then they sewed up a chair on which the next judge, Sisamnia’s son and other judges, sat. Thus, it might be good to sew such chairs from Judge Kiriev, Judge Burbella, and other judges whose names have become symbols of the so - called perjury. I will not vote in favour of this decision, because I think we need to radically change the system and we need to get to the elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u127	the choice of judges. But even if Parliament votes it, there are positive improvements. On my complaints, many judges were excluded from this list from the complaints of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u128	Please finish ten seconds, colleague!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u129	Even if Parliament accepts this list, more than 60 corrupt and politically motivated courts have been expelled from it on the complaints of my and our team of the Radical Party. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u130	Colleagues, come on, look, there's still a proposal from National Deputy Gus to make an offer to the Volin County Administrative Court of Waldiner Felix Arnoldovich. Please, just a minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u131	Deputy Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. Dear friends, I propose to exclude Judge Volin County Administrative Court Felix Waldiner from the list. Why? Viktor Janukovic, the sad president and killer, came to Lucca in Volina for the one time, for his presidency and this judge forbade an action by the opposition forces against Yanukovic in 2012. What's more, he was the judge's judge, which means he was doing everything he could to get the national councils, you know, the opposition, we had the national councils during the "Jewomaidan" to cancel their decisions. I believe that such a judge is not necessarily working there, but such a judge should be deprived of all these powers. Please exclude this Judge Felix Waldiner from this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we go to the vote for the proposal of the People's Deputy Gus, we rule out the voting list, the People's Deputy Fedoruk -- we rule out, and Squaryluk, the People's Front -- we also rule out the Svetensky District Court of Ivano-Frankivsky district of Kalinovsky Mikhailovich. In general, with these amendments, I put the vote to a vote -- a vote. Signal. Friends, we still have 350 judges waiting for a decision to be made. We have to do our job, most of it in the district courts. Please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, we'll vote in favour. Please be supportive. [[12:21:27]] For 199 No votes. And there's a position in Self-Help, you don't vote, that's it. Aren't you going to vote? These people have been in the Supreme Council for months, they've come to the Supreme Council, it's a year and a half, friends, you can't do that. This is our responsibility. If we have questions for these people, then we have to put these questions under the law. But today we are considering their purpose and their choice is our function. So I'd like to ask all the national MPs to get together again now, to settle down, let's vote once again for this list of additions and changes that have been announced. Please vote, and please support. Another 350 people are waiting for the next year and a half. Please, colleagues, we're voting. It's a signal vote. [[12:22:38]] For-198 Please, Leonid Yemen. Invite your deputies to the hall, your honors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, what is our situation today? You know how "cats in a bag" was brought to us today, someone pushed them there, and we now have our voices that the people have delegated to us, to support these unknowns to no one, who only know that for five years they worked in the Yanukovich system, gave us "examinations of corruption" and obviously never thought about justice. We have actually had the idea and the suggestion that we have these people, because, in fact, they're long in line, first of all, to send for the re-testing that's provided for by the Fair Court Act. It's my personal position, and I'll stand in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u134	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we have it. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, I've always respected the proposals made in the bill, remember, the alternative, where Leonid Jemetz, Oksana Siroid, and everyone else, that we should be able to maximize Parliament's ability to influence the decision to elect judges. And they suggested the logic that this should be a machine-supported decision made by the Supreme Court of Judges. What did we do? They've stripped all the powers of the committee, deprived, in fact, of the opportunity to give judges an assessment on your request, and now, it turns out that there's a political desire not to support it, there's political remarks to some judge. Therefore, fellow believers need to be truthful. The point is that we want to have a hearing here, which we talk so much about around the judges. Indeed, leave them in office. What's the problem? The judges will remain in office, they will receive full pay, they will not do justice, and they will deprive them of the possibility of increasing wages and pensions for ordinary Ukrainians. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we need to be absolutely responsible in this matter. And here's the question that if someone were to engage in corruption, there would have to be a responsibility for every judge. It's not about voting. Whether to consider a year and a half is, of course, a sovereign right, but I don't think it's absolutely objective and fair in relation. Let's re-vote now. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, my friends. Please invite the deputies. Please take your seats, please. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Let's ask again. Do you know what the question is? The question is, if we don't vote now, they're going to lose their powers at all. And we don't have the right, we don't have the right to do that in terms of people, even without knowing them. Dear colleagues, please, once again, please everyone take your seats, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, and I ask you to vote with a signal on the proposal that was made with the additions and changes of the Ukrainian national deputies, who were also heard from the rostrum. Please give me a signal vote, please. Signal vote, please. [[12:26:39]] For 207 That's better. Dear colleagues, on this note, I announce a 30-minute break. In the first hour, we start working, we continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u137	I would like to read again the announcements that have come to the fore, dear colleagues. So I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "World Ukraine". "World Ukraine" was elected as the head of the interfractional MP Ivan Ivanovich, the national deputy of Ukraine. Greetings, Mr. John! "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I report that the head of the faction Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna is absent from plenary meetings on 21 May 2015 for important reasons: he is ill. Please assign a sub-office to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides the work of the official parliamentary website, to take into account what has been noted in the preparation of the results of the work on the given day." I'm reporting on the creation of the 8th Interfractional Union "Protection of the Village" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine of the Kornatsky Arkady Alexiyovich has been elected head of the Interfractional Union for the Protection of the Village. Let's welcome our colleague. And the last message. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the Interfractional Union of the "Health Nation". Head of the inter-fractional "Healthy Nation" inter-fractional association of the elected National Deputy of Ukraine, Silantiev Denis Olegovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the briefings did what they had. There is a request to enter the hall to continue our work. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce the start of our work. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Dear colleagues! In two minutes we're starting work, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Dear colleagues, please. I'm going to ask the heads of factions to mobilize their factions to continue our difficult and necessary work for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We can continue ours. Please, let's have a signal vote, how many national MPs are there so that we can understand the continuation of our work. Please be prepared, dear fellows. Dear colleagues! Let's keep working, let's keep voting. Please give me the signal vote. It's a simple vote. [[13:13:59]] For 184 Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to continue our work, we will now consider draft Laws 2562, 2562-1, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. And then we'll go back to the question of the selection of judges. Do you mind? And another suggestion is, let's consult: it would be advisable not to announce a recess right now, but to continue the sessions until the issues of the agenda are exhausted, I think that would be absolutely appropriate, now there will be a break of 2 hours, we don't have any committee meetings, nothing. How do you feel about that? We have to vote for it. So we don't close the morning session and continue our consideration of the agenda. Yeah? Please prepare, we need 226 votes. 226. 226 votes. Let's make a call for this offer, no interruptions, until 6:00 p.m. Let's support this proposal, I think it would be very constructive to work without interruption. [[13:15:40]] For-167 I see that there are no deputies in the room, I see that they have not arrived, because even the voices show that not all the factions have voted. It's about working without a break between two and four hours and working up to four hours. So we'll be able to look at more bills, draft laws and work qualitatively within 16 hours. I think that would be entirely appropriate. Why don't you change the meeting? So at 18 we'll finish, by 18 hours at 18 we'll finish the job. Prepared? I see people's deputies are still coming along. Let's take our seats, there's an offer to work up to 18 hours. There is an offer to work up to 18 hours now, colleagues, without interruption, without a big break from 2 to 4. Please support this offer, work better than not working. This is an apolitical issue, so I ask all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament to support this proposal and the groups to Parliament as well. All the factions and groups, namely: the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front, the Radical Party, the Fatherland, the Self-Help, the Opposition Block faction, the People's Will Group and the Rebirth Group, and the non-fractional National Deputies, I call for us to vote to work very productively in 18 hours. The great order of the day is nothing to rest. If you'll excuse me, colleagues, we're voting to work until 6:00. [[13:18:07]] For-187 Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. Dear National Deputies! You know, I want to remind you that now this whole circus is listening to the whole country when the Head of the Supreme Council five times persuades you to vote without interruption, to work. I want to tell you, boys and girls, millions of people are looking for a job to earn a piece of bread, and if they were to work without interruptions, I think they would be happy to work without interruption because they have nothing to feed their families for. And you and I, we have to make five arrangements so that you and I don't take a break for two hours. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put once again on the vote, the deputies of the so-called "Occupy Block" do not vote, let their voters know how they want to work. Let's vote non-stop, millions of people can't actually work, because they don't have anywhere to work. We're working!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u141	For the sake of justice, the Council must say that the Opposition Block voted -- five national MPs, five men. Please, let's consolidate. Please, my friends, everyone, please take a vote on this proposal. Work. Let's keep working until 6:00. Please vote. Please be supportive. And calm down, please. [[13:20:17]] For 215 [[B in m in s a l in]] Last vote, please. Once again, we vote in favour of this proposal. Please support this proposal. Please support this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. Come on. [[13:20:50]] For 204 The proposal did not get the required number of votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again? Individually insistent MPs ask to put this proposal to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! Have you calmed down? Dear colleagues, I would ask you once again to support this proposal. In principle, it looks like this: that we think that two hours should be done with other things than working in the Parliamentary Hall. I think we have to work in the Parliament Hall because there are a number of important issues to consider. And to have a luxury like two hours away from working in plenary mode, I think it's a luxury for today. So once again, I'm putting this proposal to a vote and I'm asking you to support it. And there's nothing to worry about. If someone has urgent questions, urgent questions, you can leave the room temporarily. But urgent questions, and you're going to get into voting statistics. Why were we chosen? Why? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Please vote. Identify yourself. For the last time, I've put this motion to a vote. [[13:22:24]] For 219 Okay, colleagues, thank you for understanding. Draft Law 2562, registration number, 2562-1 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. Please. There's an offer. Please have a suggestion to consider this issue with a reduced procedure, proposed by the minister, 2562, 2562-1. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[13:23:19]] For 193 Please, Arsen Avakov. First Deputy Minister of the Interior, Eka Zguladze.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u142	Hello! The Minister has already reported on this bill. I just want to emphasize a few important points. In particular, I will try to answer in advance the questions that have already been heard on the committees and during consultations with the deputies. Shall I continue? Okay. The main task of this bill is to provide tools for the new patrol police. Because only a new uniform won't make them new. They need new methods and new approaches to work so that they do not become GAI. What do we mean? We tried to find the right balance, on the one hand, incentives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stimulating new approaches. Thank you for your support. Thank you for your support. Because today I've just seen a very painful statistic: every day we lose between five and eight people -- they're DDP victims. That's a fact. During the year, we lost as many people as we did in the ATO zone. The rules have to be changed, changing people won't be enough. Therefore, please support this bill for the first hearing. I know there are comments, we can work out, we can open up and find an option that will settle Ukraine. We're ready to discuss everything. But what we really need is electronic protocols. Why? So that people don't wait on the streets so that we can work professionally and effectively so that we can control the quality of police work. This time. Second, we need a very clear procedure for paying fines. The fines must go into the budget, or they must go into someone's pocket. It is therefore necessary to have a procedure that we have tried to make quite liberal. Today, 15 days' fine is due.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u143	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u144	Thank you. Increase to 30 days. But you can't pay for that double period, and then the foam is on. The penny has to be paid for 30 days. No, it is also a fact because the law-abiding State is not only built by the hands of a law-abiding police officer – it is also a law-abiding citizen. And the offence must be punishable, which is what the country stands for. So if we don't pay within 60 days, we lose our rights. But they automatically come back the day we pay both of these penalty points. We also propose to introduce video fixation. I know that Ukraine has a painful history. We tried to learn from the experience we had. We studied all the criticism that was made three, four, five years ago when this issue was first raised, including the work of the Constitutional Court. But if anyone has a question about individualization or has to be fined by the owner or the driver. Again, we can go back to these issues and discuss them. But today we had that logic. When a police officer is fined, the driver is fined. But when the camera is fined, we offer to fine the owner. And we think that this does not call into question the presumption of innocence, because there is an appeal procedure that suspends this whole procedure. That's if it's too short. And, of course, where will we answer the questions if they remain? Please help us reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u145	Thank you. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about why we and the copyright team of Bill 2562-1 have proposed this bill for your consideration. The fact is that the deputy minister of the interior did not say at all what the Ministry and Government were proposing to introduce article 301 in the bill. 300-1, which significantly narrows the time to allow the driver to pay his fines. The point is, the government bill is being proposed. It is possible to pay 50 per cent of the fine within just three days, which in many cases would not allow this 50 per cent to be paid. Once again, a very important question is leaving the right to drive after 60 days. Accordingly, our bill 2562-1 proposes to increase the time given to the driver to pay 50 percent of the fine to 7 days and then to impose a fine in full. Also in our bill, there is no double the fine, because the foam will be folded. Well, those who read know this bill to the extent of a corresponding fine. And this, at least, is going to be 1020 dollars. I believe that, today, Ukrainian drivers, driving on bad roads and in many cases violating traffic rules precisely because of the quality of roads, we cannot force them to pay for such things. A serious enough question is the presumption of innocence, which the government bill proposes to exclude altogether. That's why we have two proposals from our copyright team. First offer. Support our bill 2562-1. Or support the government bill 2562 and provide for a solution to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u148	removal of the following rules: lifting the presumption of innocence in administrative infringements, imposing fines, harsh penalties for early payment of fines, disqualification of judges from handling administrative infringements. I propose to support this bill in these proposals that I made in the first reading, in the first reading and on the basis. And work thoroughly on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Please two in, two in, two in. Please sign up. Before that, however, I would like to invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Michael Palamarczuk. Please. The account. Please report to the committee's first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving Traffic Safety Relations (Registration No. 2562), which has been completed since 13.05. In 2015. Submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, which introduces automatic road traffic detection by means of technical means of photo and video fixation. It should be noted that this bill already excludes the rule on the repeal of the principle of presumption of innocence. Yes, it is suggested that the administrative responsibility for violations of the automatic traffic rules will be borne by the owners of the means of transport, regardless of who committed the offence. The bill also provides for the following: The Code of Administrative Offences proposes that it be noted that cases in this field in automatic mode should not be dealt with openly (art. 249). It is necessary to pay a fine within 30 days of the term of double the fine. But in the event of failure to pay his offender, he will automatically be deprived of his right to drive for six months. Today, the driver’s removal of a driver’s right to drive a vehicle is only a matter for the court. According to the project, the time of administrative detention of a person from 3 to 24 hours is increasing due to the suspicion of an IMF employee that the person committed an offence for which the administration is scheduled. However, in view of the Constitutional Court’s decision of 11.10.2011, number 10 conflicts with the Constitution of Ukraine. The new bill is the introduction of fines for every driver to add 150 points each year. It is suggested that when the traffic rules are fixed automatically from the total number of citizen’s points.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u151	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u152	It's from the committee. A special part of the Code of Administrative Violations. Only after calculating the bonuses is a real fine imposed on the wrongdoer. In addition, before the Code of Administrative Offences, the government is proposing to amend the Code of Administrative Justice in part two of article 71 of the Code, as currently drafted, provides that in administrative matters of law. The decision or omission of the subject of the authority to prove the rightfulness of his decision, action, or inactivity is based on an answer, that is, the DAI inspector who made the decision was fined by the driver. It is now proposed that the Code should be supplemented by a rule that provides that in matters relating to administrative traffic security offences, the obligation to prove that at the time of the offence was not controlled by the owner of the car or by a license plate that had emerged from the owner’s possession as a result of unlawful actions by other people was relied on by the owner of the car. The committee members noted that the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle remained uncertain because the main idea of the project was the presumption of the owner's guilt, the unconstitutional extension of the period of administrative detention of the person within 4 hours. In addition, drafting the bill requires additional spending from the state budget, but there is no financial and economic justification. GNEU: As a result of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work on the basis of conclusions, observations, and suggestions. The committee therefore suggests recommending a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of the first reading that the subject should be reinstated from the right of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Makarian David, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u154	Please pass the word Hennadia Tkachuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u155	We have been delegated not to restrict the rights of ordinary citizens, and therefore I believe that this law cannot be adopted and should be taken into account by the committee. And so I'm going to ask you not to vote or support this bill, and you have to send it out for further work. Once it's processed, then we can look at this bill in more detail. There is such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Mikola Velichovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u158	We're not like this, we're not like this, guys! The GAI doesn't work very well because it happens to GAI employees with drivers. The mass of conflicts that are splattered in the media on YouTube. The Reformation Team, the Cabinet of Ministers, proposes a law similar to the laws adopted in Georgia, introduces penalty points in order to enable a person to break and not pay for minor offences several times. The reformer team proposes to introduce video-fixing, and it faces resistance again. When Minister of the Interior Yuri Vitalevich Lucenko introduced an automatic fixation system eight years ago, you know who was most opposed to it — judges, prosecutors, governors and other chiefs, and people's deputies. It was them who, when they started coming to their drivers with video-fixing tickets, they called themselves on the envelope of the heads of the GAI and said, "Oh, you bastards, pay for these fines yourself!" And now that we demand: let's enter the video fixation, let's make every deputy, that's how Deputy Parasuk approached me and said that he paid twice the fine now and pays, let's make everyone equal. With regard to the question of pay, it is up to the person on whom the machine belongs. Respectable deputies, when leaving a car in a playground or crossing, cannot know who is driving, he will be fined the owner and let the owner think the next time he gives the car, or let him demand that money from someone who violates the traffic rules. That's the way it is around the world, and you don't have to invent other things here, let's introduce Europe in Ukraine, let's pass a literate law, let's take the second reading, let's finish the second reading. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Victoria Vojcitsky "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Igor Didenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u161	Please, Igor Didenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u162	Dear National Deputies! The Self-Help Association is offering to adopt drafts, but we have two great bills, and we want the bills to be passed. We therefore have a proposal to take two bills, turn them back to the committee for further work, and draft a unified bill on Sunday, and vote for it. In the second case, we're going to fail two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u163	Thank you. Igor Musiyczuk Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, I'm talking to the drafters of the bill: Arsen Borisovich, we've talked to you and I'm now insisting that the protocol should be amended to amend this law to increase the retention rate from 3 to 24 hours, because this is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Only in this case is the Radical Party faction ready to vote on the basis of the bill, because everything else can be worked out and changed, but it will not be deleted in the second reading. So this is a fundamental question, I'm waiting for answers and waiting for the faction. Under protocol, please, Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u165	Please, Arsen Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u166	We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u167	Thank you. Thank you and I would like to vote on the basis, although there are many corruption elements in the law, but I am convinced that we will remove them in conjunction with the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u168	Please, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u169	Dear Penitentiary Head! Dear colleagues! The conflict with the fact that we have two bills stemmed from the original version of the text of this law, which introduced a government that scared the whole Ukrainian society. It was impossible to talk about the abolition of the presumption of innocence, and so our faction introduced an alternative bill that, through European algorithms, regulated the issue of fines for cars. Now the government has corrected its version as well, and I think both of these bills are very close in nature. I therefore propose to support the government's bill so that an alternative committee can make a perfect pro-European bill. Please vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u170	Thank you, Your Honor, for your offer. Dear colleagues! Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. "Rebirth" by the People's Deputy Snatcher.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister! There are four positions that in our view conflict with the Constitution. What is the problem with second reading? In addition to the position that the Radical Party has just announced, the position that relates to the presumption of innocence, the order of fines, and the treatment in a closed regime. So these positions we're unfortunately not going to be able to subtract from the second reading what's the key problem. That's why there was an alternative bill. We have a proposition, in these four positions, if we have the opportunity to remove it right now, then maybe it's before consideration. And if the Rules forbid it, then it's much better to do what the faction "Peter Prashenko" and "self-help" put these two bills together and bring them into the hall. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation where none of these positions can be removed on the second reading. So this and your position should be answered, and that is exactly what we supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u172	Andrew Derkach, please, "The will of the people." Please, "The Will of the People" by Andrew Derkac.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u173	The “will of the people” faction believes that there is no point in delaying the voting on these bills, and we propose to vote on 2562-1. Arsen Borisovich, in order to take more fully into account the positions and proposals of the deputies, takes into account the proposal of Bill 1398. This is the need to move ambulances with red T-shirts, and we have introduced such a project – a European practice. Regrettably, the scientific and expert management has given us a point on this subject. But we have problems with accidents when ambulances drive, drive people, crash cars, then we get lawsuits and problems. We will therefore vote in favour of Bill 2562-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barresuk "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Today, we have voted hard, but to this day, a compromise law on the National Police. Why? Because they all sat down together, agreed -- laws, politics, roads. Now there are two normal laws: the government law is beautiful, a series of non-work. Why? We didn't make a deal, we didn't work out, especially lawyers. It is for the public, political things to confuse with the legal ones, to talk about death on the road, when there are just legal colleges, just to unify two laws, to adopt them. Let us accept them in the first reading of both or send them to the committee, and next plenary week we will adopt a fine, normal European government law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Julius Mamchure, Peter Dustenka Block, co-author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u177	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! As co-author of this bill, 2562/1 I agree with the position of the Lucenka faction leader, so take the basis of the government, and from our bill take all the meaning and translate it. and prepare for the second reading is already normal, of the two bills the law. That's why it's government based, and we're working on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u178	Colleagues, I think it's a perfectly proper offer, my dear colleagues. Arsen Avakov, please, one minute, and we're getting ready for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u179	I want to say that I have made very clear the head of the Self-Help faction of the situation. We are now ready to take all the provisions along with the authors of the alternative law, to adopt the situation in one document. And why should I, however, vote on the basis of the government bill now? So that we don't procedurally interfere with the process, so that in July, a new patrol can step outside. Because there is a procedure for second reading, there is a procedure for signing by the President. I promise you that we will sit down and agree on two of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, here's the proposition: let's do it, and I would like to ask all my colleagues to support this: 2562, government, we're taking the basis for the second reading to take into account position 2562-1, as author Mamchure said. So we're going to do one draft law for the second reading: 2562, based on Mosiyczuk's amendments, and in preparing for the second reading, taking into account the provisions of draft law 2562-1. And we make a fine law, and then we can all share in preparing for the second reading. Please, I put this proposal to the vote: 2562 – on the basis of the second reading, to take into account Igor Mosiyczuk's proposal to the Radical Party. And the provisions of Bill 2562-1 have been prepared by the People's Deputies. Please vote. Please vote. Absolutely normal offer. [[13:47:45]] For 247 [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, listen, we work together, we work together, we work together, and we work together. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question, colleagues, please concentrate. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. We will now vote once again on the judges' rulings, on what we have spoken to you. There are a number of proposals that have come, national MPs, namely, to be excluded. Attention, listen up! Attention, listen up! Bondaruk Oleg Vasilovich Cherniewitch District Administrative Court; Waitin' Natalia Volodymyr's District Administrative Court; Svetuch Vitaly Mikhailovich Vinnicki District Administrative Court; Black Oksana Mikolayevna Suma District Court of Suma District Include additionally: Fedorczuk Andri Bogdanovic District Administrative Court of Kiev; Kalinjak Ruslan Anatoliyovich Wynnicki city court Individually, Kyiv’s Economic Court means to include: Gavrylovska Irina Aleksandrovna, Kurdelchuk Igor Danilovich, Privalov Artem Igorovich And Volin I sounded in that transcript that was already both this, and Fedorica, and Goody, that's what they were, they're all included in that transcript. So let's make an emergency call. The proposal is a signal vote for this proposal, for this proposal. Please give me a signal vote for this proposal. [[13:49:28]] For 243 Thank you, colleagues. With this proposal in general, with this proposal in general, I put to the vote, taking into account that the nicknames in line with the decision should be technically corrected. And with this decision that I read with the proposals of the people's deputies, which I read earlier, before we announced the break. Please vote in general. Vote. Number Stands – 2921. In general. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:50:02]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next suggestions, please, Your Honor, please give the committee a vote. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 25. Colleagues, there's another law that we need to consider including in the agenda for today. This is a matter of the Service Services Act and the Service Centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. In fact, today it was introduced by the government, yesterday it was introduced by the government. And I suggest we put it on the schedule now after 16 hours. And before that, we're going to look at 1165. Colleagues, 2567 scheduled for today and a 16 - hour review. Let's talk about this law, it's just inclusion. I ask you to support this offer, Your Honor. Please support this proposal. Please support this proposal. [[13:51:32]] For 196 Colleagues, it's just a schedule so that we can start a discussion on it. If something goes wrong, we'll return it to either the developer or the committee. But to have a discussion, I think we need to have this law. There are differences of opinion on this subject. I think we could talk about them today. Let's do this one more time. 2567: Draft Law on Service Services and Service Centres of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine. And in front of him is 1165. Stop! Stop voting. Arsen Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u181	The Service Centers Act is a discussion issue that is here in this room. I know that. But I want to tell you, the MVD Service Center is space compared to the MREO that is now. Let's start with these changes, we really need them. If we vote on this bill with the changes we're going to make together, we're going to change the MREO system by the end of the year. We're gonna kill her, and there's gonna be a new service system. Please support and consider this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u182	Guys, let's support and take a look. Really. If there are issues at stake, we can always discuss them, because this is a huge work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which was previously carried out. Let's talk about, let's figure it out. There will be no understanding, so we will postpone his consideration. No questions asked. But now I'm asking him to just include it in the agenda. Colleagues, please vote on the schedule. It's on the schedule. Involvement in the schedule. On schedule, and then we'll discuss it and make a decision. [[13:53:29]] For 208 I won't. Colleagues! All right, colleagues, I get it. Let us hold separate consultations on this subject. Maybe after 16 o'clock we'll vote on it. Another is a draft law that is necessary for inclusion. Listen, guys, this is the International Monetary Fund beacon. This law is to be passed in May months, a draft law introduced by the government (registration number 2862), a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the payment of court fees. There is an offer to include it in the agenda of the plenary for further decision-making. It's an IMF beacon. Colleagues, please support 2862. There is an appropriate decision by the committee on this subject. Please be supportive. The IMF Mayan is 2862, on schedule for decision-making, and we'll consider it, it is. Please, 2862. Let's vote, colleagues. 2862 entrants. The law is an IMF lighthouse. [[13:54:44]] For 222 Once again, I submit this proposal, 2862, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on payment to the court. We didn't make it. I understand. A vote on the inclusion of the agenda and the decision-making process is needed. That's the same proposal I'm putting to the vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Inclusion for decision 2862. And now we're going to look at the D.B.I. Please, colleagues, let's support it. [[13:55:23]] For 226 All right, it's on. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have left, colleagues. Listen carefully. We have yet another bill, an important law on comprehensive reform of the law enforcement system. Draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation 2114. There is an offer by the author to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please. And I continue for 15 minutes to meet with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's my right. Please don't let anyone go. An important law. State Bureau of Investigation. [[13:56:12]] For-195 Thank you, colleagues, decision taken. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u183	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation No. 2114, which introduces, has brought to Parliament almost all members of the Committee on Legislative Protection, as well as national deputies Sotnik and Chumak. This law is a systematic project for the formation of Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. I would like to point out that the work of drafting this bill was started in the summer of 2013. The purpose of the bill is to set up organizational and legal principles for the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation, whose main task is to prevent and combat crime. The conceptual positions of the draft law lie in the following. First. The D.B.I. is a state law enforcement body. The issue of DBR activity in the Cabinet of Ministers is presented by the Director of the DBR. The other one. The State Bureau has the authority to expose and investigate serious crimes involving violence, creation, and the activities of criminal organizations in general. The DBR also relies on the task of preventing organized crime, of detecting the investigation of crimes committed and committed by law enforcement officials, that is, human abuse, torture, that is what happened during the Dignity Revolution and during the Januković regime. So I'm not saying today that the requirements for the adoption of this bill are in the Transitional and Final Positions of the Criminal Procedure Code and the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the investigation should be transferred from the Attorney General's Office to the State Bureau of Investigation. So, colleagues, please support and vote on the basis, this is a very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Deputy First Vice President of the Committee, Mikola Palamarczuk. Please, Mikolo Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u185	Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation, is provided for by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine, according to which separate CPC standards are introduced from the date of the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation. In addition to other internal affairs bodies, the Security Service, the authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with tax legislation by the State Bureau of Investigations, are required to carry out pre-trial investigations into criminal conduct alongside other internal affairs bodies, security agencies and bodies responsible for monitoring compliance with tax legislation. According to the Constitution of Ukraine's Transitional Regulations, the Prosecutor's Office continues to function as a preliminary investigation before the establishment of the system of pretrial investigation and the introduction of laws governing its functioning. Thus, with a view to forming a system of pretrial investigations, there is an objective need for the adoption of a bill on the State Bureau of Investigation. The main science and expertise agency makes comments, some comments. However, some comments may be removed when preparing for the second reading. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill, to adopt it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to the faction of Peter Prashenko. The State Bureau of Investigation Act is the final formation of the architecture of the country’s forces. In 1996, the Ukrainian Constitution stipulated that the prosecution would not have an investigation, but it still has one. This law finally makes the prosecutor’s office a European body that oversees the rule of law and the rights of the state and the citizen rather than conducts politically ordered investigations, unbiased and prejudiced. This law is extremely important. Nevertheless, our faction, by voting on a basis, leaves behind the following condition. We want, or we all understand, the second reading will need to review the order of appointment of this body, the part of the governing body, and the subordination of that body. We believe that there is sufficient manoeuvre to find political consensus on all law enforcement agencies. That's why we vote "yes" in the first reading in the context of dealing with matters of order and subordination in the course of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Colleagues, please take your places to vote then, please, colleagues, for the vote to take your seats. An outstanding law, the draft Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, prepared by the Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Kozemjakin. In line with the committee’s decision, it is suggested that the draft law be voted on as a basis. — Registration No. 2114. Prepared to Vote? Are you ready to vote on the D.B.I.? The State Bureau of Investigation is voting on the basis of Yuri Lucenka's proposal, with Jury Lucenka's proposal, please give a signal vote. Please support this law, the State Bureau of Investigation, with the proposal of Yuri Lucenka, please vote in a signal, a signal. [[14:03:16]] For 236 Please, based on Yuri Lucenka's proposal, based on 2114, with Yuri Lucenka's proposal on the basis. [[14:03:38]] For 247 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Dear colleagues, we have a few minutes left, I'm calling a recess and at 4:00, please colleagues, at 4:00, without delay, to arrive at the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
