ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please prepare for registration. Please take your seats. We have a number of important issues and ratifications today, the issue of innovation. I would like to ask that we concentrate on four hours of plenary work, since in the afternoon there will be a committee meeting. Again, I would like every committee to consider all the issues that need consideration, including tomorrow's important issue of visa-free regime, the issue of gas rent, the question of moratorium on land sales. These are all the questions they need, including committee decisions. I am now addressing the heads of the committees to work hard, and tomorrow we have worked very carefully and made the right decisions. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:02:51]] 306 National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Olga Matuzko with her birthday. Welcome, Ola, dear colleague. [[Applause]] All the good things on earth and the best wishes. Dear friends, according to the Ukrainian Supreme Council regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak from the Ukrainian national deputies on Wednesday. Please prepare for registration, distinguished national deputies. Please register with the National Deputies. Please, please. Please, National Deputy Volodymyr Gusak, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u2	Please give the floor to the deputy of Balitski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u4	Good afternoon. I wanted to talk to you about the election today. The situation in the local elections is extremely unacceptable to any democratic society, especially our country that we are trying to build. More dirty and problematic technologies, which had been applied by administrative resources, were not even available. The late Janukovic rests from the fact that she exercised authority in the districts. In view of the fact that more than 500 people in the city of Harikov, more than 500 councils were deprived of their right to choose their own power. The members of the Regional Council registered in 36 hours. Such humiliation on the part of its people, its electorate, has not yet allowed for any authority in Ukraine. In the city of Mariupol, elections were disrupted, and elections were virtually cancelled. Those activities that exercised power to overthrow the elections were extremely unacceptable for our country when people entered arms when dirty technologies were used in elections, resulting in the abolition of elections. In the city of Melitopol, elections took place when 50 per cent of the opposition bloc received in the city, today they do not give old power, former regionals, warmed by the Solidarity Party of Petra Poroshenko, warmed up by these people, who today do not allow themselves to meet the new council. In Berdjansk it is possible, but in Melitopol, where 50 percent won the Opposition Block, it is impossible. This electoral right must be repealed with regard to our electorate, to our people. 35 per cent of the appearance in the districts is a red card of power. After 35 percent. If people don't come to the west. They come to the polls to express their protest, and unfortunately our society, when it feels insulted and humiliated by power, people simply don't go to the polls. And this low phenomenon is an indicator that can be estimated today. We will require the recalculation of votes in a number of districts. In the Kirovograd region, Kiev, and we also demand elections in the city of Harkov, where the electorate was deprived of his right to hold his party. It must be understood that power is primarily a responsibility. Power is a responsibility. There is no power without responsibility. Had the elections not been held in Vinnica, the governor would probably have left his post the next day, and it would have been possible in Mariupola. Zebravsky continues to take up his post. Such a relationship cannot be tolerated. We believe that power must first and foremost be responsible. And re-elections are needed in some districts. This must be a consensus council and a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u5	Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block. Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the topic of Ukrainian society that is not relevant: to whom of today's national MPs, the foreign MPs, will issue a message to the court is the fundamental topic of the Ukrainian people. But I wanted to point out that the people's deputies and parliament are doing good things, including. Sadly, though, it is a bad thing for us not to control our good deeds. I inform you that according to the law we have passed, with you, from November 1st of Ukraine it is forbidden to carry a forest round with precious species of all but pines. We decided within the committee to examine how the law was being implemented. But before we introduced this ban on 1 November, the Cabinet of Ministers had to do so, and here many of my colleagues were working on this law, to develop a new order for issuing certificates. The forest agency site contains an electronic list of those who have been published, where the territory has been published. The Cabinet of Ministers should develop a comprehensive program to stabilize the development of the forest sector. So our idea was what? That we're stopping forest corruption, we're creating jobs, we're providing ecology, and, God forbid, since January 1, 2017, we're completely banning the export of forests, including pines, from Ukraine. What will our home government do, not against the night? The native government gives the forest agency permission to use old certificates, violates the three positions of our law, does not enter an electronic register, does not develop an integrated program. And, most importantly, at the meeting of Prime Minister Yatsenuk, he gives instructions, a two-week economic development, and a bill for the consideration of Kabmin -- attention! - on the lifting of the temporary ban on the export of timber in unprocessed form. Friends, as a doctor of political science, I will tell you that I have not seen such a miracle in Parliament. That is, the Prime Minister does not immediately order the law to be implemented and the development of regulations and state programmes, and he gives instructions not to comply with the law and to draft a law repealing the law that he is obliged to implement. So, my position is very simple, my friends. I've studied all the material on the activities and positions of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Today I am filing a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau in accordance with article 72, paragraph 9, against the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the relevant officials that they are not contributing to the fight against corruption, and I therefore hope that the Anti-Corruption Bureau will open its first case against the Prime Minister and we will ensure that the law is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u7	Dekhtyarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u8	Respectable Society! As a national deputy of Ukraine, I was approached by a group of state-owned companies called on to help solve the complex situation that has arisen with the dismantling of the company. The Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food has approved a list of state-owned property items subject to privatisation, including State Aid, in 2015, for the promotion of the Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture and Food by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 12 May 2015. However, the process of privatization of the enterprise is effectively suspended by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by delaying the adoption of the privatization order. The financial situation of a company with up to a hundred employees is now rather dire: more than seven million accumulated losses. In 2011, the process of decomposing the land of the DP "Mjoshtan State impromptu" began. The land parcels, the pies then claimed 1,000, 57 inhabitants of six villages: the Peace Watch Tower and the Youth Village Councils. Pajovics have repeatedly taken part in a civil protest: crossing the Kiev-Chop route, taking care of the Minagropolitics, taking care of the Kabmin. In order to produce technical documentation, citizens have spent a considerable amount of money — over 800,000 dollars. As a result, 23 spiders have been able to obtain state land rights to land parts of a plot with cadastre numbers registered. Another part of the change in legislation, without having been able to obtain State acts, is still seeking recognition of ownership in due course and in accordance with the land privatization project. However, the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers, referring to the Ministry of Finance, has been refusing to approve the appropriate administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the second time. This position creates social tension in the country. A trade committee of employees, pensioners point to the limitations of their activities. Because in neighboring villages, people have the right to manage land parts (payamas). In addition, over 80 people have died of old age since 2011, and their descendants (the heirs) have lost their right to land privatization. An uncontrollable process of self - capture of their land particles (pays). I understand the Government's desire to receive funds from privatization. However, making decisions could be preceded by a specific financial calculation, a clear analysis of the existing state of affairs. To my deep conviction, the danger of a social explosion is not worth the small sums that can be derived from the realisation of amortized property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u9	Please, Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, everyone was waiting for the end of the local elections, and we survived this very unforgivable day. Although the totals of the elections continue to be summed up in individual regions. Despite the fact that the authorities guaranteed that the next day after the election process, everyone would know the results, in particular regions, including Kiev, and still have no results. What did we get? Despite the fact that there has been a lot of talk about opposition in general and the Opposition Block in particular, we are represented today, whether someone likes it or not, and 17 regions. We won in six regions, and that's because in Kharkiv we were boldly prevented from being represented and protected, representing the rights of the people of Slobodan society. In two regions, we took second place; more than 10 cities, our representatives won city elections; in three district centres, we continue to fight for representation and victory of our candidates for mayoral posts. I want to take another look and point out, are there politicians in this Council that have won over 10 years in specific territories and have a third as low? And that, in today's conditions, after many people have been deprived of their right to vote, has received the support of a third of our citizens. What do we see today? We see that power rather than concentrate and level the situation in the country, ensure peace, ensure stability, raise wages and pensions according to raised tariffs and raise prices. What's she doing? She's the one who's been breaking things up with each other. We see that the election process in Mariupola is being blocked today because the authorities know that it is also losing in Mariupola. And today we demand the responsibility of authority. The people of Ukraine said no to the authorities and the authorities have to hear it. What do we see? We see such an ability, they want the Prime Minister to be blamed on the beautiful President. They're all the same. The power must go on. The government has to go to the elections, and people today demand responsibility. And these separate tents of those in the coalition that are in the Dust Block are a smile. We demand power to change. Such authority does not have the right to exist. And we will not allow people to cheat on good and bad authority. Today, there is no authority in the country and it must go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u11	Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, I want to go back to the important issue that will stand tomorrow in the order of the day: the Law on Gas Tariff Reduction, but we understand that this is Law 2835, the Law on Returns to Gas Oligarchs. Yesterday a meeting of the working group was convened, which then turned to a committee meeting, where only one amendment was considered: how to subtract 70 percent of the rent from "The Crushing". And that's 7 billion dollars that don't get the budget that goes directly from rent to gas to subsidies to low-income populations. I want to report that more than 4 million families have formed subsidies. And that money should help them pay their gas bills. I want to remind everyone once again that gas reform is a two-pronged reform because it was agreed with our colleagues with the IMF, and this is one of the main conditions for joining the EU. I also want to say that both the President and the Prime Minister signed under this reform because it is overweight. For 24 years we were allowed to rob the gas market in Ukraine. Finally, we put order there. And tomorrow, if this bill is voted in the second reading with these amendments, millions of families will not receive a warm subsidy. I want to ask the MPs once again not to support this bill, because it causes direct damage to our state. And by the way, gas reform and putting the system on the gas market is one of the most important tasks. We are now fighting and fighting for Ukraine's independence, so we also have to win for the independence of the gas market from our neighbor, the aggressor country. So once again, 70 percent of the gas we're getting in reverse from our Western partners. So we don't have to take two steps back and turn the shadow schemes of the oligarchs back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u13	Please, Rephat Chubarov. Please, Refat Abdurahmanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u14	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The 46th day of the public blockade of Crimea. Thanks to the participants in the campaign, and this is Crimecatarian National Movement activists, these are members of Automidan, the Self-Defense of Maidan, the Right Sector, the Civil Corps of Azova and many other real patriots of Ukraine, a huge smuggling channel has been completely shut down, a blocked supply channel for the occupied territory of Ukraine. Thanks to participants in the Crimea public blockade, the causes of corruption and the shadowy amount of money in Ukraine’s administrative border, which, like rust, was then dispersed in many Ukrainian offices, were finally removed. The shareholders finally lost hundreds of thousands of dollars a week in Ukrainian production transfers through the Crimea Peninsula to mainland Russia. Hence, of course, the invaders in despair, so in the last days they have returned all repression against the Crimean Tatars, against the activists of the public blockade of the Crimea, against their family members. In recent days, dozens of searches, interrogations, and interrogations have taken place in Crimea. In the shadows of the FSB for many months there are Crimean Tatar activists, members of the Majlis: Ahtem Chigoz, Ali Asanov, Mustafa Degermeji. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! We have as a state to protect our citizens. What we're saying is that the only resource that now enquiries the invaders in Crimea is the supply of electricity. So we are demanding the government of Ukraine to stop the new outcry of repression in Crimea in the coming days by the government's decisions to stop the power supply in order to stop the repression against Ukrainian citizens. We conclude that if the government continues to draw on this issue and does not solve it, people who have to protect themselves, their relatives, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, can take steps to protect Ukraine’s territorial integrity, to protect their lives and the lives of their loved ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u16	I call on the government and the PNB to decide in the very near future whether to stop the power supply to the occupied Crimea territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u17	Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u18	We ask the President of Ukraine to take his duties seriously and to submit to Parliament 12 new members of the Central Electoral Commission, including the head of the commission. We do not accept an endless repetition by the President of the Mantra of Parliamentary factions: give us your candidacy. First, the law states that it is not a parliamentary faction, which is that the President submits these nominations after consulting the parliamentary factions. The President meets regularly with the leaders of the parliamentary factions, the last time was on Monday, and absolutely nothing prevents him from holding these consultations, following the nomination of the new Centre. I would like to remind the President of Ukraine that in early September, the Self-Help faction presented him as a member of the Central Elections Committee, Eugene Radchenko, who was offered to us by the public, who was one of the creators of the Ukrainian Electoral Committee, who was an international observer in many elections. There are people in the country who can be chosen from a normal, centred voter, who cannot continue to leave Hendowski and his people forging elections. We all saw it in Mariupola, in the Red Army, and in other cities. Let's stop this disgrace. Another disgrace that turned into a tragedy. I don't know a parliamentarian who in the last few weeks, in the last few days, hasn't been surprised by what's going on with Victor Shokin and around Victor Shokin. Well, it's really laughing through the tears. Tears are primarily a lot of people who can't continue to get justice, who are still in the grip of this system of injustice, of circular trust, of stealing a foreign business, of political repression. Tomorrow it may be our tears, tomorrow it may be the tears of those people who today receive it in office or fear, or listening to their political leaders. We are a parliament. Let's take this seriously. Yesterday, Mustafa Najam became the 120th MP to sign the resignation review by the Supreme Council of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I have a request from other colleagues: show your will, show your courage, and now the appointment of an independent Attorney General, along with the beginning of the replacement of all the courts, is actually the last chance for us to lead the country further in an evolutionary scenario.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u20	Next thing you know, the street's gonna be scarier. A great request: let us act as a parliament and act as a state, and we will lead a society on the right path. This requires an independent Attorney General to ensure justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u21	Honorable colleagues of the National MPs, regarding the CBC. According to the information I have received, only three factions have submitted their applications. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll get the data, I'll announce it. But the point is, please make all your proposals by the end of the week, and we'll send them to the President right away. And the President is going to submit as far as I can tell. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Bereza, People's Front. Yuri Bereza, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to address one problem again. We continue, the Ukrainian Parliament continues to demonstrate its inefficiencies in the adoption of laws. Once again, when laws of great importance are in place for our nation, there are people who are not present in their workplace. So I, my colleagues, call, not in word, but in deed, in fact, now all the factions present in this Supreme Council will still return to their faces and to their work, and to the people they are calling for here to vote and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Mikola the Great, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u25	Please, Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u26	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, well, for no one is the secret that our society today has reached such a temperature and has reached a boiling point. I am confident that the first step in reducing this temperature must be, above all, a dialogue of power with its citizens, and our honourable President must still act in this situation as a guarantor, if he is really a guarantor of the Constitution and the undeniable rights of his people. Therefore, I believe that the main steps to be taken in this dialogue by the President should be the resignation of people who have completely discredited themselves as representatives of the government, namely people like Hendowski. I think it would also be a necessary step towards the resignation of Mr. Shokin, because today we're going to get to what we're going to have as a folk illustration, not a legal illustration. And this boiling point can go down to a level where we have a illustration that's going to be 7.62. So I'm addressing all the representatives of all branches of government, respectable people, find attempts, find opportunities to communicate with their citizens. Next. I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the record is "the government of Yatsenuk", "the government of Yatsenuk" is already so busy that it's enough for everyone. I emphasize that this is a coalition government. In this government there are representatives on a quota basis from various political powers. And so let's be honest about that this is our joint coalition government with you, not just to discredit one person. In another aspect, I would like to draw attention to the selectivity of justice in Ukraine. Today, we see steps taken by the prosecutor’s office to land volunteers, to land patriots. We're seeing steps that don't apply to the major players in the political arena of our country. We don't see criminal cases involving "high Boyko." We don't hear anything about Crushing. We only see such preventive measures on the part of the Attorney General's Office. And in order to distract ourselves from advertising, we invent incomprehensible assassinations, as I say. Because it is already known to children that because of the thermal vision, you cannot see anything through the glass. I can't understand how these experts are going to investigate such crimes unless they're dealt with in basics. Well, as for my district and Volina, I'd like to speak to the Secretary of Defense. We have such a suffering 51st brigade. And for the officers of this brigade, it's not enough to complete the building.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u27	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u28	There are not enough 10 million bracelets to complete this house for these officers in Volodymyr-Wolinski. I'm asking the Secretary of Defense to find an opportunity to build this house for our military personnel. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u29	Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u30	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address Vladimir Borisovich. We have registered, more than 20 colleagues signed, the Law on Custody, which will completely normalize all non-industrial mining. We can't pass separate laws on sand, individual laws on the ridges, individual laws on titanium, individual laws on amber. We've got to put this in order. I want to thank Mr. Tomenko's committee, the environmental committee that has already considered it, and Mr. Halasyuk, who has promised to consider the committee in the near future. And if possible, next week, to put this bill on the ground as a whole. The other one. I would like to address my colleagues to everyone, including myself, that we should stop this shameful practice of the absence of deputies in the hall. Maybe let's close this dining room so it doesn't sound like air, put a dot and stop calling at last, because the devaluation of the Ukrainian Parliament is coming. And here, of course, is the work of factions' heads. To the heads of factions. There is no respectable Mr. Beresück, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fine, I'll say, don't yell, please, Yegorchik, don't shout. Is he in the Henprosecutor's office? Tim's fine. That's what I wanted to talk to you about. There was no point in raising that question to the polls so there would be no political innuendo, but there was now a widespread lie. Before voting under the Constitution, when pressure was exerted on me and my colleagues, for me to vote in the right direction, as it seemed to someone. It has been common that if we vote, the facts of the bribery of those who vote will be made public. Because we're building a European Ukraine and new standards of democracy, and we're all living, and we're still working in this Parliament, I have a very simple call: either to apologize, or to publish, that's where I put the dot. Because you can't lie and manipulate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the speech is over. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote because we will now. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. It's not from the factions, it's from the people's deputies. Please, colleagues, please get ready for work, for the vote, because we have enough questions for the day. The last minute is Alexander Kugel. Please. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Let me say, from this high rostrum, thank Nina Petrovni Jujanini and the entire Committee of Customs and Tax Policy for the principle of state position and that yesterday, at the committee meeting, a bill was supported by the majority of the votes that allowed rent to be reduced. I emphasize, Mr. Burbak, listen, because maybe you haven't read the bill. Rents for state-owned gas companies And the second norm, where it's downgraded, is where the government's offering it, for a separate commercial activity. All the activities of joint ventures are. remains at the same rate – 70 percent. We thank you very much, because for all of us here in this room, the most important thing is to improve the terms and conditions of payment of tariffs for the population of Ukraine. We expect that with God’s backing tomorrow we will be voting for this bill in a second reading. And we ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put him first and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. The important thing is not to make the adoption of this law even richer for gas workers. I mean, oligarchs. This is very important. Hence, this issue must be carefully voted on in every article and every amendment. Now, as far as I'm concerned, respectable colleagues, po. Dear colleagues, as far as CBC is concerned, I have information. Careful! So there are only three filings of three factions: one filing took place on October 7. October 7th is the Self-Help faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got the jaundice. Next, October 8th, Fatherland and July 20th, the Radical Party. There are only three submissions, dear fellows. I call on all factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament to make their proposals for the formation of the CLTC by the end of the week. Please, I asked you to do this. Dear colleagues, we begin our consideration of agenda issues, a series of ratifications. Since we have a government meeting today, they will report to the deputy ministers as we have agreed. Question (Registration No. 0069) of the draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Marrakesh Agreement establishing a World Trade Organization. Dear colleagues, report to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Mikolska Natalija Jaroslavna. There is a proposal: to consider this draft of the Act on Ratification under Short Procedure. Attention! Ratification by short procedure. Please take your seats, MPs. I would ask you to work more intensively today, since we have a committee meeting this afternoon. Please consider the draft law on the short-term ratification of the protocol - proposal. Please identify yourself, colleagues, as to the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[10:40:02]] For 135 Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, take your seats, take your place. This magical sound of voting begins, and everyone begins to return to their seats. Please. Ready to vote? Short-term procedure is a proposal by the rapporteur, a draft law on the ratification of a protocol amending the Marrakesh Agreement establishing a World Trade Organization. There's a reporter's proposal: a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please make up your mind. Vote. [[10:40:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please invite Deputy Minister Natalia Jaroslavna. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u34	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We present a bill submitted for your consideration by the President of Ukraine, which provides for the ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Marrakesh Agreement on the Establishment of a World Trade Organization and to give consent to the obligation to apply the Trade Facilitation Agreement. In this long term, the most important point is the Trade Facilitation Agreement. This is the first multilateral agreement made in the WTO after its establishment. The importance of this agreement for Ukraine and for world trade is that it is aimed at simplifying and reducing the time and money spent by business on international trade procedures. It provides for reduced financial and time-consuming costs by applying the single window procedure, the accelerated shipping procedure, the possibility of submitting copies of the customs declaration, the possibility of accelerated transit of documents, increased publicity, transparency and efficiency. In other words, the objectives of this agreement are to make imports and exports faster, cheaper and more predictable, and to simplify and unify the overall international export and import procedures. Experts estimate that the implementation of the agreement will provide enormous benefits not only for Ukraine but also for all WTO member countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Please invite the head of the profile committee, Hanna Hopko, for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Ukraine holds 109 seats out of 189 World Bank Doing Business ratings based on the ease of export and import operations. Ratification of this Agreement will allow us to improve significantly our place in this rating. The Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday, at its meeting, considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Marrakesh Agreement on the Establishment of a World Trade Organization and unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support this bill as a whole. Ratification of the Protocol provides for Ukraine's accession to the WTO Treaty on the Simplification of Trade Procedures with the subsequent phased implementation of its provisions. The implementation of the said Agreement is aimed at simplifying customs procedures by, among other things, reducing their financial costs and reducing the time spent on such procedures, improving transparency, reducing corruption and implementing advanced technologies. And here it's very important that this Agreement will allow us to strengthen the reform that society so expects, including customs reform, in order to reduce the number of documents, including smuggling and Syrian imports. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. National Deputy Ishchenko, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u38	I beg your pardon, Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u39	Victor Krivenko, please. Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, this bill needs to be supported. And I would like to thank Mrs. Mikolski, and finally, in 25 years, a subject has emerged in the Ukrainian government. Ukraine does not participate in three world wars: the war for investment, the war for markets, and the war for resources. How did we join the WTO? Our delegations came and settled them in five-star hotels, then there was a tour, then there was a shopping tour, and then within an hour, there was a branch across the sector. This has been done under the pressure of raw oligarchs, who do not need to protect their market, because raw materials will be bought, for raw materials, and they will do so. Anti-dumping investigations were opened for them, and they were very simple to give orders to subordinate deputies, the government. And we're taking our last positions to protect our own market. The same was true in the free trade area. We have been very weak in protecting our interests, our interests in the Agreement with the European Union. The previous government, in exchange for political preferences, simply gave up the branch. And now we have to thank the European partners, the Western partners who are now ready to take a look. And in this respect, it's very important for the Ukrainian side to have a really professional position. And so, Mrs. Mikolska, we will support you in this, especially work with manufacturers. I want to thank you separately for moving an expert credit agency. This is the sixth attempt, since 94, we haven't been able to create an expert credit agency, because we don't need it for raw oligarchs, we need it for shipbuilders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u41	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u42	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, we are simply obliged to support the ratification of this trade facilitation agreement now, as it allows Ukrainian exporters to reduce the costs they spend on exports. Since it allows to break down a series of corruption schemes, it allows for simplifying the exit of Ukrainian goods to foreign markets, that's what we need for life today, and that's what we should have done much earlier. But at the same time, honourable colleagues, the Radical Party faction insists that we today have to create an accelerant of Ukrainian exports, finally create an expert credit agency. I want to remind you that this was put into the Coalition Agreement, and I want to remind you that the people's deputies are working on an interfractional bill that was passed today by a committee of profile recommended for adoption. Unfortunately, he has not yet been sent to Parliament. We very much hope, Volodymyr Borisovich, that next Tuesday, as defined by the economic day, this bill will be considered along with other important investment industrial bills. Because today you don't have to put these laws in the further drawer that create new jobs that allow Ukrainian producers to go to foreign markets, that should be priority number one. It's the only way we're going to be able to turn that disgraceful export basket that we have today, the grain, the unprocessed metal, the forest round, the iron and steel raw material, into a product kit that's going to cost 10 times as much. Then there will be much higher wages, pensions, deductions to Ukraine’s budget. There's no other way. Let us learn in developed European countries. That's why we ratify and accept the creation of an expert credit agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u43	Please, Your Honor, please. The discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Marrakesh Agreement on the Establishment of a World Trade Organization. You've heard both the report and the report, and the speeches by the national MPs about the support of this treaty and the ratification. So I'd like everyone to concentrate. 0069. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Amending Protocol to the Marrakesh Agreement on the Establishment of a World Trade Organization. The committee's proposal to vote as a whole has been made. Please, colleagues, take your seats, vote in general. 0069 as a whole. Please support me, colleagues, as a whole. [[10:50:19]] For 255 Ratified. Please, colleagues, stay in your seats. We're going to work pretty hard. I'm offering not to do, not to announce a break from 12 to 12.30, because we're working until the second hour. If the factions have objections to this proposal, please come and say so. Because. Please. Colleagues, next question is 0063. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on maritime shipping. Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Omelyan. Please, dear colleagues, to be sure, there is an offer to consider. Please have a brief proposal to consider this matter. [[10:51:34]] For 178. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u44	Good afternoon. The Honourable Head of State, the Honourable People's Deputies, is introducing to your consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Maritime Navigation, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the aim of carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on maritime shipping, which was concluded on 8 November 2012 in the city of Nicosia. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this Treaty. The agreement aims to promote the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus in maritime trade. The conclusion of the Treaty will allow us to cooperate in the future with a view to avoiding all obstacles that could harm the development of maritime trade between the ports of Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. Improve the conditions for shipping between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. Involve an additional truck that will allow more full use of the potential of transport infrastructures in both countries. And to provide a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of the process of bilateral inter-State ties between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Maritime Trade Navigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u45	Please. Irina Heratschenko, head of the European Integration Committee, co-report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on European Integration has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Maritime Trade and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and has approved the decision to recommend that Parliament accept it as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came from the fact that ratification would first allow the completion of the internal state procedures necessary to enter into a treaty of validity. And I would also like to inform my colleagues that the implementation of this Agreement will provide a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus and will create favourable conditions for improving transport links between countries. It will also contribute to the development of cooperation in today’s important area of commercial shipping and business relations. I'll also point out that the decision of our committee is entirely in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which stresses that this Agreement must be and needs to be ratified. And we would like to take this opportunity to thank the Parliament of the Republic of Cyprus for ratifying the Association Agreement, which was ratified last week, essentially immediately after the new parliamentary elections in the Republic of Cyprus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need for two-for-two-again? Is it? Please identify two for, two against. Palamarchuk, Petra Dustenka's Block. National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u48	The Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u49	Please, Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u50	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u51	Please, People's Front, National MP of the River.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u52	The People's Front faction supports it. (Who wrote me down?)
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u53	Okay, colleagues, thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on maritime shipping. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, an important draft law on ratification. Please prepare for the vote (0063) ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on maritime shipping. We're voting in general, dear colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:56:56]] For 247 The law's been passed. 0066 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. Reported to Deputy Finance Minister Makeyev Olena Leonidivna. Please be sure to shorten the procedure. Please be sure. [[10:57:35]] For 180. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income and property taxes, done on 21 October 2013 in Kiev. Target. The draft law has been prepared to implement the internal State procedures necessary for the Protocol to take effect in relations between the two countries. The need for this Protocol is explained by the fact that in the process of negotiations with the Czech side there have been concerted changes to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. Subjects to the protocol are the Ministry of Finance and the State Fiscal Service. The Protocol does not provide for changes to the rates of effective taxes on dividends, interest and royalty. Together with this Protocol, it is intended to change the names of taxes to which the Convention is extended, namely, taxes on the income of enterprises and taxes on the income of natural persons. Changes to the current Convention regarding articles on the permanent representation of pensions to avoid double taxation and non-discrimination. The Protocol also provides for changes in the taxation of interest, namely: tax-free interest, the recipient and actual owner of which is the Government of the Contracting States, the National Bank and the Czech Republic, and in the case of Ukraine - "Savedbink", "Ukreximbank" in the case of the Czech Republic - the Czech Export Bank and others. The new expanded edition of article 26 of the Convention on the Exchange of Information, which is fully in line with the provisions of the Model Convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In accordance with article 9, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, the Protocol is subject to ratification in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of Ukraine’s legislation will speed up the Protocol’s entry into force and order of relations between Ukraine and the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Please report to Irina Heratchenko, chairman of the European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u56	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 7 October, the Committee on European Integration considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and decided to recommend it to Parliament as a whole. By adopting this decision, we, as members of the Committee on European Integration, have been guided by the fact that the main purpose of the draft of this Act is to implement the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the protocol. I will also point out that, according to the Explanatory Note, the protocol will ensure that changes are made to the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income and property taxes. And I would also like to point out that our decision, our committee, coincides with the conclusion of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which also recommends that this protocol be ratified by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Valery Paccan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support our faction to support the ratification of a very important agreement. Note that cooperation between Ukraine and the Czech Republic has always been in existence. Many of our Ukrainians are working there now, and this will give a new impetus to help our country avoid double taxation between the two states and help our citizens in this way. Please, everyone, and I urge you to support the ratification. This is important to all citizens of Ukraine, it is important to us, to Parliament. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u59	Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Head! Of course, we must support the ratification of this agreement. But what I want to do is call your attention to what's going on with foreign business in Ukraine, as well as the IT companies that are now being subjected to tremendous pressure from the law enforcement agencies and the tax system. I just talked to a friend of mine, and he thinks, whether in the Czech Republic or Slovakia or where to move my business, which is related to information technology. Yes, he'll be very comfortable, we'll pass this law now, double taxation will be abolished. But if the tax administration goes on, the tax police will be pushing on IT business, they'll be working with the courts, they'll be working with the investigators, they'll be making corrupt links, and together they're attacking IT business and business with foreign investments, Ukraine will be without any business at all as such. I'm sure we're together and our faction of the Peter Dusty Block is definitely against anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u61	Finish up, please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u62	Any pressure on business, IT and business involving foreign investment. We demand that the IMF, the courts and the taxpayer stop this immediately, otherwise there will be consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We can go to the vote for this bill. Please take your seats, fellow Members of the Czech Republic, 0066 – draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, 0066 as a whole please vote, please support, 0066 votes, colleagues. [[11:05:10]] For 227 Please, 227 has been approved. Please pay attention to the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. 0059 is a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the removal of certain goods from the free trade regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2001. Reported to Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Natalia Mikolska. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider a short-term ratification project. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:52]] For-183 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill provides for the implementation of the internal procedures necessary to establish a protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Kazakhstan on the removal of certain goods from the free trade regime before the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade from July 6, 2001. The main purpose of the bill is to make these changes in accordance with the procedures of the World Trade Organization following the accession of Tajikistan. The Protocol shall specify a clear list of goods to be removed from the free trade regime. This will enable both us and Tajikistan to clearly control our compliance with these exceptions, because at present, without an international legal agreement on these exceptions, these issues are regulated by national legislation and Ukraine and Tajikistan, which allows Tajikistan to periodically raise import duties on goods originating in Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that trade with Tajikistan is now a positive trade surplus that is higher than our exports to Tajikistan than the imports from Tajikistan to Ukraine. Tajikistan has always been an important trading partner for the export of food products, for the export of household chemicals, for the export of our machinery. In this regard, so that we can continue to work and deepen our mutual trade with Tajikistan, we are urged to support the bill so that we can reaffirm our WTO commitments and continue to work as part of our mutual trade with Tajikistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Please report. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 6 October, considered the Kamin bill ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the removal of certain goods from the free trade regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2001 and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the project and ratify the Protocol. I would like to ask you to support and personally thank Natalia Mikolski for her hard work and also to remind you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is awaiting an export strategy. We are now very important to Ukraine, despite the fact that the Free Trade Agreement will become effective from 2016 onwards, it is important to open up new markets, to win, and for this we expect from the Ministry of Economics and Trade in Export Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? Please sign in. Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of free trade and tax avoidance. Double taxation is important, yes, and we'll ratify it. At the same time, in addition to working on our external partners, we need to first create conditions within the state in order for business to develop here. Here I support Mr. Arjev’s very previous report. At the moment, terrible conditions have been created for business. In fact, money is now generating for the state it's an agricultural sector and an IT branch. And if it's easier with the agrarian industry there, because they're not going anywhere -- the grain here -- it's getting much worse with the IT industry, because they're extremely mobile people and it's easier to open up businesses in Malta now than it is in Ukraine. That's one question. The second question. It's about creating normal competitive and easy tax legislation. That's why I want to support once again the bill of 115 deputies, led by Nina Jujanina, on the creation of liberal tax legislation. In addition, there is certainly a need to simplify tax administration in addition to tax cuts, because the state must be a business partner. And in fact, if business really doesn't have to know who the head of a local or district tax inspection is. Inspection should only work on the Internet and only in a really remote way. So we support this ratification, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the maximum effort to create favorable, light liberal rules of the game inside the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u69	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to remind the rapporteur of the requirements of part two of article 194 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, which foresees that financial and economic calculations and forecasts of possible consequences should be added to the bills of acceptance of the obligations of Ukraine's international treaties. Now, there's no figure in the explanatory note to this law, no analysis of the possible consequences of the deletion. Because I want to tell our television viewers that the removal means that the goods that will come from Ukraine will be subject to the import duty in Tajikistan, and the goods that follow Appendix 2 to Ukraine will be removed and bet on Ukraine's import duties. So I would very much like to make economic and financial calculations under such important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u71	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. It is not as simple a decision as it may seem. If someone read this document carefully, it is a protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the two countries of Ukraine and Tajikistan. But note the preamble to this protocol. The preamble states that this protocol has been signed for a period prior to the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement signed on 18 October 2011 between the SND countries within the framework of the Commonwealth of Independent States. This protocol is ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament in 2012. So what do we ratify if the period for which the protocol was signed ended because the free trade agreement entered into force? There's another point of the deal that I'd like to pay attention to. It's about Article 3. Article 3 provides that changes and additions may be made by consent of the parties to this protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u73	Please finish, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u74	they must be written and form an integral part of this protocol. The question is, Why should we ratify the Agreement if it can be changed and become the norm of this covenant? It's nonsense. It can't be because any changes have to be considered in Parliament. In this regard, I ask that you postpone consideration of this issue to find out the problems and to make the warnings I have been making.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Please, Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Colleagues, a little detail. Tajikistan has not acceded to the SND Free Trade Agreement. In this regard, it is vital for us to have our bilateral free trade agreement in place. So this is a warning in the preamble, which is, it's going to work and it's going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. The discussion was concluded. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues Ready to Vote? I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the removal of certain goods from the free trade regime to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on free trade since 6 July 2001 (number 0059). Puts the vote on the basis and in general. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote, Your Honor. Please vote. [[11:16:11]] For 224 I'm asking you to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u78	Colleagues, I'd like to be more careful. Please, colleagues, draft of the Ratification Act, let's go back to the vote (0059). Ready? Please. Come on, let's go back. Please be supportive. 0059. Let's go back to the vote. Please be careful, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. Please be supportive. [[11:16:52]] For 237 Thank you. Please be more careful. Colleagues, in total, 0059, please vote. In general. Vote. [[11:17:12]] For 239. 239. The law's been passed. 0064 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on air links. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the rapporteur for a reduced procedure to consider a draft ratification of the Ratification Act. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[11:17:42]] For 181 Please, 181. Report, Vladimir Omelyan, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Air Communications is being submitted to your consideration. Introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Air Communications, which took place on 9 December 2011 in Podgorica. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at international level for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and Montenegro, contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. The implementation of the law does not require funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Air Connection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u80	Fellowship, Deputy Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Igor Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u81	Yes, attention who's flying to Montenegro is information for you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 6 October 2015, reviewed the Cabinet's draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on air links. And I decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project be adopted and the treaty ratified. The adoption of Ukraine's law is aimed at creating a bilateral contractual legal basis for an international regular air connection between Ukraine and Montenegro. Further development of cooperation in aviation, business relations. Expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines According to an explanatory note signed by Ukraine’s Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Schulmeister, the implementation of the said act will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine’s budget and local budgets. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the agreement. So please support the Committee's decision on foreign matters. Fly to Montenegro.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u82	But come back, fellows. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? None. I can't see. None. There is a proposal to vote on the draft Law (Registration No. 0064) on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro on Air Connection. We've heard the report, the committee's report, we can vote, the honourable colleagues, the need for two -- "yes", two -- the opposite was not in the hall. Please take your seats. 0064 as a whole, colleagues, we vote. [[11:21:12]] For 241 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Colleagues, there was an offer not to take a break for half an hour, or we work for two hours. But you need to vote. We're even better, even these 30 minutes, we're just going to listen to the laws to take a closer look at the issues today. I'm making this proposal, and I'd like to support it if there's no objection to work without interruptions from 12 to 12.30. We vote, please, this proposal, it needs a vote, your support. We'll even listen to the laws and move on so that we don't stop. Please, colleagues, support this proposal, don't take this short break right now for 12.30. Vote, please. [[11:22:15]] For-189 I found no support for the offer, unfortunately, too much regret. 0065 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Air Relations. Reported by the deputy minister of infrastructure, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Short-term procedure, colleagues. [[11:22:50]] For 178. A report on this law is to begin. Attention to those who fly to the Arab Emirates. Please ask the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Air Relations is being introduced. Imported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Air Connection, which was made on November 26, 2012, in Abu Dhabi. The ratification is foreseen by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It will enable the creation and functioning of a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral interstate ties between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates. It will contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, further expanding the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. There is no need for funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. I would like to point out that this agreement is a classic open-air agreement, that is, without any restrictions, without restrictions on both flights and airlines, and on destinations. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Air Communications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, the report is the deputy head of the Committee of Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! You and I are opening up just Ukraine's airspace today for the possibilities of different, hopefully companies, not just for one. Therefore, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on 6 October 2015, has considered the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet and the United Arab Emirates on Air Relations introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and has approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the said project and the ratification of the agreement. The adoption of Ukraine’s law is aimed at creating a bilateral contractual legal basis for international regular air relations between Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates for further further development of cooperation in the field of aviation, business relations, and the expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. According to the explanatory note, once again, under the signature of the acting minister at the time of the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine Vladimir Schulmeister, the implementation of the act will not require additional financial costs from Ukraine’s State or Local Budgets. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also supports the ratification of the agreement. Therefore, I ask you all to support the Committee's decision in foreign exercises and to ratify this agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on air communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u86	Is there a need for two "for", two "against", respectable colleagues? None. None. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Please, 0065, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the United Arab Emirates Government on Air Relations. You have heard the report and the report in this regard. Please vote on the whole draft ratification, colleagues. Attention, please. Attention, please! Vote, Your Honor, please. [[11:27:14]] For 245 The law's been passed. 0068 is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on air transport. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this bill. Please. [[11:27:43]] For 197 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Air Transport, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with a view to carrying out internal procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Air Transport, which was made on 14 July 2015 in Washington, D.C. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this agreement. The adoption of the bill will allow the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism for international implementation, the activation of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the United States, contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, freight, tourism, business relations, and the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. The implementation of the law does not require funding from Ukraine’s national or local budgets. I'd like to point out separately that this is actually a remarkable achievement of the ministry, a team of ministries, we've been able to break the situation for five months and sign this agreement, which. For years. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Air Transport. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, Hanna Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u89	Colleagues, and now information for those who want to visit the United States, is very important to ratify this agreement. I want to remind you that during the days of Ukraine, U.S. Trade Minister Penny Pritzker, whose family is also from Ukraine, visited Ukraine. And she visited her own village. And I think that the ratification of this agreement will also help because so many tourists will appear not only in Ukraine but also help us to strengthen our cooperation. On 3 November, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the Cabinet's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the US Government on Air Transport and adopted a decision: recommending the adoption of the project and ratifying the agreement. As already stated by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the implementation of this act will not require funding from state or local budgets for 2015 and beyond. And I would also like to ask our diplomatic representatives to make an effort today to enter into an agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on common aviation space. The text of the agreement was initialled nearly two years ago. This agreement is of fundamental importance to us for the full entry of Ukraine into the EU's only aviation space, which will be another step towards European integration. Please vote and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? None. 0088: Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States on Air Transport. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. We're voting 0068 as a whole. Please vote. [[11:31:41]] For 235 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, this ratification has been completed. In accordance with the agenda, we have a number of questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, namely the draft Law on Change (3155) in the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons who Need Additional or Temporary Protection. 3159 is a draft of the Law. 3155, 3159, 3154, 3171 and 3224. In any case, all these laws are linked to a visa-free regime. In order for the committees to start working on them, we need to include them in the agenda of the day session. The committees will consider them, and they will continue to propose to Parliament how to move forward. I'm asking you to support these draft laws. So 3155, 3159, 3154, 3171, 3224 are laws related to visa-free treatment. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. It's putting them in the order of the day session. We'll send them to the committee, and today you'll be able to look at them and make some recommendations. Please be supportive. Vote please, Your Honor. Please include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[11:33:31]] For 202 Dear colleagues, I'll read it again. Draft Law amending "For refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection." This is a question of visa-free mode, 3155, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The Committee’s application 07.10. That's the first question. The chairman of the committee is Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich. He'll be looking at the committee at his meeting, it's his profile. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Oh, the committee's already on the agenda. Yes, yes, I agree. Next. 3159. They're already under consideration, by the way. Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation to improve the judicial protection of foreigners and stateless persons and to deal with individual issues related to the opposition to illegal migration. Grigory Mikhailovich Nemira, the committee. There was also an application. Next. 3154, amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice (for the immediate consideration by the courts of compulsory drainage or detention for the purpose of identification and enforcement of aliens). There is also a committee. Next. Changes to the Civil Procedural Code to establish birth or death in a temporarily occupied territory. Listen to the laws, fellow workers! Next. It is also important for a visa-free regime to establish birth and death there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, 3224, I see. It has a question, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u91	One at a time? Let's do it one at a time. 3155. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. 3155. Concentrate, colleagues. Please be supportive. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. It's from the visa-free, please support. [[11:35:35]] For 247 A decision has been made. 3159 is about the legal protection of foreigners and stateless persons, also in a visa-free package. 3159. Please vote. Intruding in the daytime, please support. [[11:36:06]] For 222 222. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. Again, colleagues, 3159. Please 3159 once again, enrollment in the agenda, colleagues, 3159. Integrating into the agenda of the day session is not a vote in favour of this law. Please, support 3159. Voting, voting, colleagues. Please support the inclusion of the day session in the order of the day. [[11:36:46]] For 230 230, decision taken. Continue to debate: support, support, make changes – it will be discussed in the first reading and second reading. 3154, please, also, the law on changes to administrative proceedings to order immediate court proceedings for forced discharge or detention for the purpose of identifying and securing the forced discharge of aliens. An important question too. 3154, please also support the inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. It's just the inclusion in the agenda, your esteemed colleagues. [[11:37:29]] For 222 Be careful, colleagues, please. Integrating to daytime 3154, please support, 3154 please support. We need to set up a daily routine so that we can keep moving. Please support 3154. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:38:04]] For the 220. Yeah, 3154, we'll be right back. 3171: regarding the establishment of birth or death in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Also included in the agenda of the day session. 3171. Please be supportive. It's important to run the process to work. [[11:38:32]] For 236 Run these laws so that we can form a position on them. Decision taken. 3171 included in the agenda. Next. 3224. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Documents certifying Ukrainian Citizenship certifys a person or his or her special status to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union. There are many contradictions under this law, but it is possible to determine when to place the day’s session in order and where to continue to determine the law itself. It's inclusion in the agenda of the day session at all, colleagues. We will continue to consider the law. It's not a review of the law, so I don't understand why they don't vote. Please enter 3224 into the agenda of the day session. 3224. It's just inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:39:39]] For 216 Yeah, it's not either. We'll be back. Again? 3224, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. 3224, colleagues. Please, this is an inclusion in the agenda only. 3224. You will continue to determine how to vote. Please vote 3224. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[11:40:18]] For 209 I didn't get the necessary amount. Next. Come on, colleagues. Draft laws amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the characteristics of the state registration of local self-government bodies, John Ivanovich Kulichenko, the national deputy prepared 3106, 3177 and 3177-1 National Deputy Bezbach and Arthur Gerasim on the activities of the military and civilian administrations. Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the optimization of the legislative process). Groisman. Next. 3225. One at a time? Please, colleagues, 3106 Ivanovich Kulichenko. Specialities of the state registration of local self - government authorities Include in the agenda of the day session. Vote, please 3106. [[11:41:45]] For 236 Copy that. 3177 and 3177-1. Please, regarding the activities of the military and civilian administrations. It's a day-to-day session, colleagues. We're not voting for the law right now, we're just allowing it to be considered. Please support 3177-1. Entry into the agenda only for sessions. [[11:42:20]] For 245 Decision taken. On – 245. 3207. It's an alternative, the ability to prepare for second reading in the electronic distribution of materials, it's electronic governance. Please also support the submission of the relevant committee. Please support and begin consideration of the matter. It's about a few million economies on paper in the Supreme Council. But anyone who wants to get an old one can do the same. It's not a substitute, it's an alternative. Please vote, 3207. Please be supportive. It's only an order of the day session. [[11:43:07]] For 225 Dear colleagues, please concentrate on one voice. Colleagues of Self-Help, I'm asking you to support the electronic documentary process at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 3207, please, colleagues, enrollment in the agenda. How can you not agree? 3207. Please enter into the agenda of 3207, please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote. It's a completely progressive idea, not on paper, but in electronic form, of materials for the session. [[11:43:55]] For 228 The decision has been made. My friend, have you read this law? And you don't agree with him? I see. I see. It's weird for me. Let's go. Well, please join the co-authorship. I just gave it to him as the Head of the Supreme Council. What's bad is when we get an electronic table for the second reading before the second reading. You want paper, write it down and you'll get paper. But paperless is minus two million, paper is plus two million. Why? We have to be a transparent parliament, not a transparent parliament. Guys, let's move on. Thank you all for your support, dear colleagues. It's absolutely progressive. 3225 Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act 3225. He'll go to a committee where he'll replace the names "police" and "police." Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. It's a day-to-day session only. Replacing "militia" to "police" in document names. [[11:45:20.]] For 225 Colleagues, one more vote. I see, I see, I see, I see. 3225 – inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Calm down, colleagues, please calm down. Please vote. 3225 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote, colleagues, I ask for your support, your vote. [[11:45:52]] For 233 Decision taken. And the committee can start working on it. 3164 is a project on differences in legislation, amending article 184 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on differences in legislation. 3164 is a government draft law. 30 days his committee hasn't considered it, we can automatically include it in the agenda. Please vote 3164. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[11:46:37]] For 219 He didn't find support. 3164 please be included in the agenda of the day session. Please, colleagues, please support the 3164 inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:47:12]] For 223 Colleagues, we'll go back to him. There are three laws out there that we haven't passed, we haven't included. 3196 draft law, National Deputy Anton Gerashchenko, on the irreparability of punishing those who committed serious and particularly serious crimes. 3196 inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. 3196, please stand by. [[11:47:54]] For 210 Yeah, I didn't either. 3197 is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for terms of pretrial investigation). Anton Gerashchenko. 3197. Colleagues, concentrate, please support. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:48:27]] For 202 I didn't find any votes either. 3191 — State administration. So the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2015, National Deputy Ischejkin, 3191. Please include 3191 in the agenda of the day session. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:49:04]] For 225 One vote, colleagues, please. 3191, in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 3191, please support. 3191, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleagues, no more. [[11:49:28]] For 219 I didn't. 3153, Victor Halasyuk, on the features of State oversight in the field of economic activity. 3153, please include in the agenda of the day session. 3153. [[11:49:59]] For 238. Copy that. 3325. All of it. 3325 is no committee, so we're not looking at it. So, your honor, we didn't vote with you. I'm asking you to focus. Let us, however, allow the committees to work and determine the recommendations of those or other laws that we have not just included in the agenda, namely 3154 – the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice (for immediate consideration by the courts of enforcement or detention with a view to the identification and enforcement of aliens. ) I understand it's a huge problem. Please, the profile committee, Ruslan Knyazevich, one minute. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the thing is, there are no novelties here. The point is that it is simply that the Code of Administrative Justice introduces the relevant deadlines for immediate consideration by local courts as administrative matters within the scope of our commitment to a readmission agreement with the European Union. This rule exists in actual legislation, but unfortunately, long periods of consideration lead to people, you know, sitting in the right places for years. Isolation and keeping them under guard, but there are no court decisions. To avoid this kind of practice, our European partners are proposing to Ukraine to abide by the Readmission Treaty and to introduce such a standard into Ukrainian legislation. For me, it's a purely technical thing, and I would ask you to support it, because it's very important and it's really in a visa-free package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, you've heard the committee's position. Please, I'm begging you to back me up. Yegor Sobolev, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u94	We respect the authors of all the bills. We just suggest that we follow the rules. If the bill was passed by a committee, and seven days later the deputies could get to know it, let's put it in the agenda. If there was not enough time in Parliament or if, God forbid, the committee did not pass, let us follow the rules and not include in the agenda. The huge wave of bills, which includes breach of procedure, makes it impossible for MPs to figure out what we're voting for. So let's stick to the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u95	So, I want to inform you that we're doing what we're doing according to procedure, no procedure is violated. There was a registered bill, which had been previously reviewed by the committee and submitted to the Supreme Council for inclusion in the agenda. And that's where the process starts. So when I invite people to vote in the agenda, I'm just motivated by the fact that the inclusion, according to the committee, in the agenda of the day session, allows me to consider this bill in accordance with the procedure. Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u96	Thank you very much, Your Honors of Self-Help, our faction fully supports the procedure requirement, but really in this case the procedure is preserved. And the bill that is currently under way is 3154, as is the next one that is not yet included - 3224 - this is, first of all, our commitment to implementing the visa-free action plan. Second, they were considered on the committees of profile, such as the Committees of Knazević and the Committee. And 3224 on the Danish Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, they were also discussed on the Committee on European Integration. They're ready to be considered in the hall. And it is very important that we look at them tomorrow in the first reading and discuss them in the mutiny, and then in the shifts to the second reading. That is why this is our obligation. And we've been working on this for three weeks on committees. We're very much asking you to put it into the agenda and support it, it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I'll call you again to the next one. You have heard the constructive suggestions of fellow members of the People's Deputies of Knyazević, Heratchenko. Colleagues, we're putting this in the order of the day session. We'll continue to consider, properly and here the procedure is preserved, and so on. But if we don't include it today, we won't be able to look at it, so we won't be able to adopt the decisions needed for the visa-free regime, not to be adopted or considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I urge everyone to make a decision now: to put the agenda into the agenda, and to continue to consider them according to the procedure. Once again, colleagues, 3154. People's deputies, take your seats. Vote please, colleagues. I'll explain it now. 3154. Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 3154 session. Voting, voting and supporting, colleagues. Vote! [[11:55:57]] For 204 I didn't get the required number of votes. Once again, I want to emphasize one thing. For example, laws such as the 3196 and the 3197 were passed to Parliament on October 2. If the 30-day committee doesn't look at them, we have the right to include them in the agenda of the day session without a committee, and the committee will accordingly review them and prepare them for the first reading with its conclusions. Dear colleagues, once again: 3196 and 3197. Two draft laws, author – Anton Gerashchenko. Please comment, Anton Heratchenko. 3196 and 3197. Listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u98	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies. Good afternoon, respectable speaker. Good afternoon, distinguished people of Ukraine. During the investigation of the complex crimes committed during the Janukovic regime, there was a situation that the deadlines imposed by the investigation were insufficient. Most of the senior officials of the Yanukovic regime have gone abroad or have been following. I have therefore drawn up draft laws that I ask to support, which will first allow for the extension of the investigation period in certain, particularly complex cases involving crimes related to the establishment and environment of the criminal organization by President Yanuković, and to allow the extension of detention to 20 months in such cases. This is due to the fact that cases are very difficult to investigate, and several officers of the former “Berkut” who took part in the shootings of people at the Institute are under investigation, and we must therefore resolve the matter. I ask that these bills be supported after the Committee has considered their adoption in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, once again. I'll bet you do. Do you want to exchange your thoughts? Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would also like to support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. And the basis is very simple. Unfortunately, Interpol International, which is a member of Ukraine, is strongly influenced by the Russian Federation, in which the imperial principle of "do not extradite its thieves to Ukraine". Interpol therefore does not place a search card on Yanukovich and his immediate surroundings. It's practically no use to any of them. There are three kinds of searches: international (blocked by Interpol), interstate (meaning former CIS countries that don't work either) and state-owned -- Ukrainian. The bill is absolutely right to allow the possibility of acting against criminals after the announcement in the Ukrainian State Search. Please support this bill, which will simplify the work of law enforcement agencies on socially significant crimes against our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputies of Voropeyev. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! You don't have to come back! You forgot, you passed one of the former dictatorial laws voted on 16 January on absentee justice. No one will prevent you from bringing Yanukovic to justice, whoever you want. Please. You have another problem. You can't finish the Odessa case, the Maidan case and the other stuff. The problem is not that people have escaped, the criminals have escaped, the problem is that you can't or you don't want to get things to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u103	Colleagues, we have heard thoughts on this subject. Let's support the day-to-day inclusion of these draft laws in order to create effective mechanisms to attract responsibility. 3196 and 3197, they're connected, and I'm going to put them together for inclusion in the agenda. Ready? Fellow national deputies, please take your seats. Please vote 3196, 3197, inclusion in the agenda, voting. During the discussion we will discuss. Please be supportive. [[12:00:58]] For 193 193, no decision taken. I think we'll go back after the break to address these issues. Now, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Everyone please arrive in time for the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. We continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. There will now be an extremely important bill. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report on the beginning of the work. And please the MPs have gone into the hall to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u106	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, you have been introduced with the draft Law on the System of Innovation of Ukraine (registration No. 2334a). Information Policy Minister Yuri Jaroslavovich will report. Please, Yuri Jaroslavovich, report you have 10 minutes. Report. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u107	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Good afternoon, fellow national MPs, journalists, Ukrainian citizens! Your attention is given to the Law on the System of Innovation of Ukraine. This is one of the ways that stands as a priority and not just as a resistance to Russian propaganda, but as well as, if you want, such a promotion of Ukraine in the world. You know there's "BBG," "The Voice of America," radio "Freedom." In England, the Air Force, there's even Al Jazeera, and I'm talking about Russian television channels for innovation. In Ukraine for 24 years, there is a system of innovation in Ukraine. But because both MPs and executives, including Kabmin, have never dealt with this issue and have never returned to the journalists who produce this product. I would like to remind you that there are about 400 journalists in Ukraine's innovation system who receive wages of two thousand dollars. So, because the authorities and the legislature and the executives never wanted to hear the journalists, the state was just throwing out the money and it never had any effect. I am convinced that this kind of inaction has led us to lose the information war and lose it for 24 years. Such actions, but in another sector, we lost the economic war. I'm convinced that that hybrid war that is now needs drastic action. That's why we started reforming Ukraine's innovation. I would like, Mr. Head, to turn on the video presentation of Ukraine's multimedia platform for innovation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u109	And after that, yes, I will continue the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u111	After a report by the head of the committee on freedom of speech and information policy, I am ready to answer the questions of the national MPs. Once again, it is a matter of the state, not of a separate faction or of individual deputies. This is not an economic or political issue, it is a matter of the future of Ukraine. I'd like to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please report to the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Then there will be questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! On August 31st, the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy discussed a draft law prepared by the government on Ukraine’s 2334a innovation system. We worked with the Ministry of Information Policy on this bill. In fact, today it's about the ability to launch both the media platform and the sales platform that Ukraine needs today. Because we have all the capacity to do that in the form and channel of UTR, which has been targeted at innovation, but it has a rather outdated technique, as well as the technology of the BTB channel, which today can work in the interests of Ukraine, but because of the legislative moments, we can't have a full launch of the full media platform today. In fact, the bill provides for the launching of a national language channel that is completely consistent with world practice in the context of the innovation channel itself. It's quite strange here that the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration seems to have not studied this nuance in the context of the innovation activity, and it's given such a very critical conclusion. But experts on the committee clearly believe that the draft Law meets international standards as to how innovation works in other countries. This is indeed a state format that is supposed to convey the position of the State of Ukraine for a foreign audience. In Ukraine, the urgency is further enhanced by the fact that we have occupied, temporarily occupied territories in which we should likewise seek our signal and prove the position of the Ukrainian State. All of this should be at a high professional level. Accordingly, a new innovation channel will have to do this. Accordingly, the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy, taking into account the challenges, needs of society to provide adequate answers in the context of the "information war" against Ukraine, recommends that the Supreme Council approve the bill as a basis and prepare it for the second reading on a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are questions to be asked. [[Congrats]] questions to the reporter and to the co-reporter. Please sign up, 3 minutes, report. Now, let me ask you a question, three minutes, please log in. And then the co-reporter, too. Three minutes to ask. Please, National MP Lavric.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u115	Please pass it on to Redneck.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u116	Please, the People's Deputy of Cervakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u117	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Yuri Jaroslavovich, I welcome you to the fact that this bill is finally being considered by the Supreme Council, and it has reached out to him because our Parliament, he loves journalists very much, but he's adopting media bills, obviously. Well, sometimes you just don't get your hands up or you don't have enough time. Please tell me if the negotiations have already taken place regarding the distribution of the signal to this channel. Because it's going to be one thing and the other, how the signal is going to be distributed. Are there negotiations or contracts signed? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u118	Thank you so much for asking. I should point out that on October 1st we launched this multimedia platform, as I've already stressed, we're waiting for the adoption of the law. I should point out that we did not wait all the time for Parliament to consider this bill on the committees, but I met with more than 20 ambassadors, representatives of diplomatic institutions. I can tell you countries: Turkey, Greece, Canada, Australia, Israel, Bulgaria. Similarly, the agreements with the cable operators of Australia, Canada, Greece, Moldova, the Baltic countries — Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia — have now been signed. On December 1, this television channel will be broadcast not only from a satellite on five continents. On December 1st, this television channel will receive tens of millions of viewers in Ukraine under signed contracts. I'll be right behind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u119	Please, National Deputy Irina Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u120	Pass the word to Ruslan Demchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u121	Ruslan Demczak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u122	The question is similar to the previous one, given the distribution channels, is that if you take a satellite that broadcasts to Europe, it doesn't get to Asia. I am, for example, the leader of the inter-parliamentary group of Ukrainian friendships, Kazakhstan, and they don't see our channels, and I also wrote a parliamentary request. Therefore, I now propose that, perhaps, the distribution of satellites to Siberia, Kazakhstan, Central Asia, understand from the perspective and motivation of this. Please tell me, is that what you're planning?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u123	Already today. Thank you for asking. As of today, the UATV channel has three satellites: in America, on the Galaxy satellite, in Europe, on the Amos satellite, and in Asia on the Azerspace satellite. Today, for example, a country like Azerbaijan will receive this signal. And within a week, we're going to go out there and signal through the Azerspace satellite to the cable network. There is already an agreement on this. This is the same in the budget, it is the same in the budget proposal next year. I'm convinced that Kabmin is also convinced that the Supreme Council will accept these changes. But once again, now this television channel of national innovation of Ukraine is on three satellites, and you can see it now on the continent of America, both in Europe, and in Asia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u124	Last, please, Olena Condratuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Jury, please tell us that we understand the irreversibility, and especially the relevance, of course, of launching Ukraine's innovation, but it's the biggest question of budgeting this difficult process. Since we understand the competitive environment in which innovation will work in Ukraine, we know that the competitive side is the Russian Federation, the aggressor country, spending about $300 million a year on its Russian Today channel. How much do you think the relevance, or maybe the change to just second reading, of increasing the budgeting of this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u126	It will be the will of the deputies, because if this bill is adopted today in the first reading, this bill will be the property of the Supreme Council. That's why we're asking for a first-reading vote today and for a reduced procedure: because a working group has already been set up between the Ministry and the profile committee. Once again, after the first vote, this bill is the acquisition of the Supreme Council. These are the amendments you can make. But before I point out that there is a signed memorandum today, and you have seen it in the video when it is supported by the World Assembly of Ukrainians. Remember, Ukrainian diaspora is the fifth largest diaspora in the world, about 30 million people who consider themselves to be ethnic Ukrainians are willing to support it. Likewise, in the budgeting that. The financial component that we can place in advertising other than political advertising. Commercial advertising is likewise permitted under the Ukrainian Law in this bill. I am convinced that in addition to government funding, we will join the funding of Ukraine's media platform for the innovation of about 100 million dollars next year. And I'm going to point out that there's an ambitious task right now, and that's going to be set out in the budget for the following year: the income portion of one of the media resources of the media platform of the Ukriinfo for the next year is doubling its revenue portion. This is set in financial terms, and I am confident that this financial plan will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions to the co-reporter of the Victoria Sumar Committee. Please, three minutes. Please sign up for questions. Please, Ivan Rybak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, you know, this is probably one of those important bills that we have to support today, because the image of Ukraine abroad, the promotion of Ukraine abroad, is what we really need today. So I urge everyone not to discuss this bill for a long time, but to tighten the green buttons and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Ivan Sporish, please, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u130	Ivan Sporish, please, Peter Dust Block. I'm counting that not just millions of people who will see us, not even one million if they see our channel in the world -- it's going to be a very big plus. And then sooner or later, we're going to take this "Russia Today" off, and I think our channel is going to progress. I'm asking everyone to support us, because if we don't support this bill today, I don't think we want anything new on our television and to be seen by the world. I'll hold it! I'm offering to back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u131	Thank you. National MP Marchenko Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u132	Please give the floor to Deputy Levchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u133	Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u134	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I do have a question for the minister. There was simply no way to specify in the previous entry. It's absolutely the right law. Freedom supports this law, a hundred percent. Only the minister correctly pointed out in his statement on the main problem of lack of funding, namely, channels. Do you not think that perhaps we should be in this law, considering that we now have a war, considering that we have information security that is impeccable, considering that we are essentially fighting for Ukraine from the side of our so-called partners, we are fighting Russia, or do you not think that we may need to prescribe in this law minimum mandatory funding for such telephony, such a channel, perhaps in the form of a percentage of GDP even, as we for example prescribe minimum funding for the army, for others or in absolute numbers, but in some way, in some way,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u135	This bill shows government funding of 0.04 percent of GDP, that's about 200 million dollars. Once again, after the first reading, this bill will be the property of the Supreme Council. That's why I insist that we go through the full procedure so that people's deputies have the opportunity to express their point of view. My job, like, if you want, as a startup manager of this project was to make rapid reform and restart this multimedia platform. We were told that in two months we wouldn't run the TV. We run it, there's managers in the room who started the information language, they know it's almost impossible. Now everything will depend on the committee of profile as quickly as it will put this bill into the hall after the first vote with your rights and how quickly you will adopt this law in this room in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Victoria Sumar, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u137	The very right question of colleague Lewchenka is actually because the TV channels are not working without funding and the minister said that 0.04 GDP is set, I think we need to keep this standard in preparation for the second reading. And what's important is that we need to understand that we have certain frequencies that today call the UTR channel, we have a base of the BTB technical channel, which is also prescribed in the law. With budgetary funding available within the limits that the minister has sounded, we can indeed make a quality "sale" that will satisfy the interest of the state of Ukraine and speak it to a foreign audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're still in the process of dealing with factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I hear suggestions from the hall to start voting. Yeah? Dear colleagues, the only thing I have heard is what National MP Lewchenko said about guarantees of financing that are not provided in the body of the law, but in the note. That is why we must then, immediately, approve, but taking into account that the preparation for the second reading must be financed. Do we understand? But I'm not going to be there now, 0.04 or. You'll already prepare the bet according to the second reading. Friends, please take your seats, a two-pronged draft of the Ukrainian Innovation System Act. Please, Your Honor, there will be two votes: one on the basis, and the next on the preparation of the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, we're preparing for a signal vote. Please. We will allow the people's deputies to enter the hall and take part in the historic vote for the Innovation Act. Colleagues, base vote. It's a warning base. Signal on the base. It's a warning base. [[13:03:33]] For 234 Now, honourable colleagues, on the basis of the existence of an amendment to the financing law. Vote, Your Honor. Please vote on the basis. Please be supportive. Based on the base. The government funding regulation is what we just discussed. [[13:03:59]] For 245 Decision taken. Based on the base. Come on, colleagues. Offer. One minute. Prepare this draft law with a reduced procedure for the second reading. Next Thursday, we'll be able to look into it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Short procedure for preparing for second reading. [[13:04:29]] For 185 All right, guys, let's do it again. There was a proposal by the minister and deputies to prepare for the second reading under a reduced procedure. So please, Minister Yuri Stetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u139	I would like to point out that this is a decision of the committee, the distinguished people's deputies, which includes representatives of the factions present. This is not the decision of the executive body of Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u140	So the profile committee made a proposal to prepare for the second reading by a reduced procedure, taking into account that a high-quality working group was created.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u141	A working group that is already working for a month. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u142	Thank you. Come on, guys, let's back up to the second reading by a reduced procedure. No, no, no, no. This is a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading on a committee basis. Colleagues, to second reading on the committee. Come on, let's vote. Preparation for second reading by the Committee under reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:06:04]] For 193 Okay. This is not a decision to make. Fellows, look, then we'll be preparing him for that week, for the fourth plenary week of November of the month. Yuri Stac, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u143	Yes, under any circumstances, I would like to thank the MPs for their state position. In general, once again, the working group is created, it's been working for a month. And I would ask all the deputies who voted in this vote today either by abstaining or against joining in this work and then perhaps, taking into account their amendments, they would give a green light to this law. And literally two more seconds. I would ask Parliament to consolidate itself around voting for other media laws. This includes the dissipation of printed public and municipal media. This is a coalition commitment and this is a commitment to the Government’s Action Programme for this year. We have to adopt these laws in the same way, we signed under it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. Victoria Sumar, head of the profile committee, one minute, and we're still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u145	Vladimir Borisovich, if you follow logic and write down this 0.04 GDP, you have to understand that the budget is now being formed, and that's why the committee will look at it as quickly as possible as possible. But this is a huge offer: putting it in the agenda so that we can really have this channel from New Year's Eve, because we can lose that nuance because of procedural moments. And media laws are apparently ignored by Parliament because they are viewed at the end of the day as they were yesterday, and for five weeks in a row. Therefore, the request: To follow and set aside a single day will be for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u146	Parliament has demonstrated full support for media laws. I believe that we will be able, according to the regulations, to consider it no later than the last plenary week of November of the month. And please, I'd like to take this into account, this is the order of the apparatus, please. But this is all for the committee, the committee submits and we will consider it for the last plenary week of November. Thank you, Minister. Registration number of Law 1581 is the draft Housing and Utilities Act. Reported Deputy Minister Viacheslav Negoda. In view of what is currently going on in the government’s meeting. There's a proposal by the rapporteur to consider the draft law in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself with regard to the consideration of this draft law by summary procedure, colleagues, please. [[13:08:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which aims to improve legislation in the area of housing and utilities. The bill proposes to allow residents as joint owners of apartment buildings to determine on their own the cost of maintenance services for homes and trailers, as well as the cessation of state price regulation in this area. It is also proposed to simplify the mechanisms for contracting housing services. The bill sets out the rights, duties and responsibilities of members of housing services relations. The issue of commercial accounting for utilities has also been settled. At the same time, it is worth recalling that Bill 1581 was tabled by the government at the same time as another bill on the specificities of the exercise of property rights in a multi-family building, with amendments to the regulation of relations adopted on 14 May this year, which requires that legislation in the area of housing services be brought into line. So Bill 1581, which we're currently looking at, is aimed at eliminating such disagreements. And with its adoption, it will be possible to fully implement the notion of "service for the management of a multi-family house" with the co-owners of multi-housing houses of their rights, including the introduction into the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act of the notion of "service for the management of a multi-housing house." The second is the identification of the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the manager and the users of the services of the management of the apartment building. And the third is the settlement of relationships, especially those that are agreed upon by the stewards, the inhabitants, and the performers. At the same time, I would like to point out that during the year the bill was reviewed and discussed, including with the Ukrainian National Deputies. And a number of reasonable suggestions were made to him. In view of the above, we propose to support the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u148	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u149	To support the decision of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and to send Bill 1581 to this committee to prepare it for re-reading, which will enable it to be further developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u150	Thank you. Viacheslav Andronović. Please report to the committee, Alona Babak. Dmitri Andryewsky. Colleagues, when it comes to a common position to turn it back to preparation for the first reading, it may not be useful to discuss it further. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill and, together with the government, made a concerted proposal to send the bill for re-reading in order to take account of the comments made by experts in the public. The bill is extremely important, so the request is to send it back for a second reading. Again, I would stress that this is the agreed position of the profiling committee and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need to Discuss? None. Let's go back to the first reading. There are no wanters. Colleagues, then I'd ask you to take your seats, you've heard the proposal to return the draft law to prepare for the re-reading. Please all support this proposal. Ready to vote? Let's get the signal back to you. To return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. This is the position of both the committee and the government and the national deputies. Please vote. Back to prepare for re-reading. Please vote. Signal. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:13:33]] For 209 I don't think it's good for us to lose this law because it's necessary for adoption. Fellows, let's get him back on the committee, and we'll take him up on the committee professionally. Let's re-vote. Please be supportive. Signal vote, please support, return to the committee. [[13:14:16]] For the 220. Well, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All right, we'll go back to the vote, we'll consider it discussed, and we'll go back to voting on that matter. Next, colleagues, 2392 is a draft law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for a project to modernize the Bortnicka station for sewage treatment). This is a joint project with Japan, colleagues, 2392a. There is an offer by the author, the deputy minister of finance, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. This is a vote on consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:15:21]] For 171 Decision taken. Please report. Deputy Finance Minister Chevelov Artem Valentinovich. Head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovn Jujanin Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the Modernization Project of the Bortnicka Water Treatment Station), registration number 2392a, dated 17.07, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Prior to the committee meeting, we had two working groups in the past two months, and we worked quite hard on all the standards set out in the bill. In support of the whole idea provided for by the bill, members of the committee in the process of discussing the bill at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy indicated that the provisions of the bill did not fully correspond to the provisions of the Treaty in the form of exchange of notes between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan. The drafters agreed with all the comments made by members of the committee and during their work in the working group. Because what exactly happened in the bill? There is a significant increase in the number of external economic entities that will be entitled to apply tax benefits when importing goods within the framework of the contract and a list of customs goods that will be subject to tax benefits. The main scientific and expert office commented on the project and believes that the results of the first reading can be based on these observations. After discussing the draft law at the meeting, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 2392, and that second reading, we take into account all the observations, all the work that was being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u154	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u155	And the second reading will take into account all the changes and work that have been made in the committee's working group. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please two in favor, two in favor. Victoria Vojticka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u157	Please pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u158	Aunt Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, in turn we mark the disgraceful low quality of the government bill. And that's because we have a professional technocrat government, and we don't really understand who's doing this when they're drafting tax bills. The working group found that the bill was complete. It greatly expands the established positions that are foreseen by the agreement between the governments of Ukraine and Japan, and in the bill these provisions are expanding very much. For example, I can say that the contract only provides for the release of Japanese citizens who are employees of the Japanese subject, and the bill proposes that we release any employed workers, including Ukrainian citizens, from the VAT. The bill also proposed exemption from VAT not only for Japanese companies but also for Ukrainian companies, for example, that would be parties to a joint venture agreement. So it was on the committee that a whole new draft of this bill was made. Each item will be replaced between the first and the second readings. But in order to be able to work on it, we ask this bill to be supported in the first reading and to allow the committee to work with it. We vote for him solely out of respect for the government of Japan, a friendly state that has agreed to provide funds to resolve the strategically important issue for Kiev. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u160	Thank you, colleagues. Please, Alexy Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u161	To begin with, we would like to express our gratitude for Japan's extensive financial assistance to stabilise the economic situation in Ukraine, to implement reforms, important infrastructure projects, such as the reconstruction, modernization of the Bortnicka Aeration Station. Of course, the project is very large and very happy that Ukraine has practically completed the internal procedures needed to provide this $900 million loan. But really, there are a lot of notes to the bill, and, I'm sure, before the second reading, we have to correct them. But now, in my first reading, I urge everyone to support this bill and, in fact, to be able to start modernization as quickly as possible. Because it's a really ecologically important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to take your seats. The draft law is extremely important. This larger project between the Government of Japan and Ukraine solves the extremely complex environmental problem in Kiev and affects the safety of millions of people. So please, on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 2392a. Signal vote, colleagues. 2392a: Shipyard station 2392a. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Please all support this more important project. Please vote on the basis, colleagues, on the basis. Please vote. It's a signal vote. Based on the base. [[13:22:38]] For 230 Decision taken. On the basis of my proposal for a vote. Please vote, vote. On the basis of that, please vote on the basis. Please vote. [[13:23:01]] For 238. Dear colleagues, the law has been passed. And the next law is the same, combined law. 2393a: Draft Act on Amendments to Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Modernization Project of the Bortnicka Water Treatment Station. So it's a combined law, it's also a foundation. Is there no objection? Vote? On the basis of that, please, they're connected. 2393a on a base. First reading, that's just the basis, and then the committee will be ready. Please, 2393a, once again, a signal vote. It's a combined law. Vote! Signal vote, please stand by. [[13:23:59]] For 237 237 votes. Please vote. Based on 2393a. It was a signal vote. Please vote, colleagues. We're not leaving! I vote on the basis. [[13:24:21]] For 235 The law was passed on as a basis. Dear colleagues, there are two factions: A radical party and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Self-help for a break announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u163	instead of a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u164	But they're asking us to replace the application. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we do that in 10 minutes, 15? We're almost done, we're going to pass the law, and colleagues are waiting. Okay? Thank you. All right, fellows, let's look at the laws now, and in the end, there'll be three minutes for the speech. Thank you. 3084. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the public administration system in the book publishing sector (3084). There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Mikola Knieżicki. Please support the base. Not on the basis of a reduced procedure, I apologize. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:25:25]] For-173 Please report to Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! A huge book forum, the Lviv Book Forum, was held in Lviv in September. And speaking there, the owner of a grand forum called Olya Gnatuk: "I have one wish that a book institution be created in Ukraine -- an institution that will take care of both the authors and libraries and support Ukrainian translations abroad." In fact, the bill that is now being proposed, prepared by the authors of many factions, is relevant. You know, nobody's doing the book in the country today. It's not surprising that the Ukrainian Book program is in the knowledge of the Derteleradio, which is completely incomprehensible. Part of the libraries are provided by the Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Education, and local authorities. There is no one to support Ukrainian translations abroad, except for several departments in the Ministry of Culture. The creation of such an institution will allow all of this to be organized effectively within the existing budget, but it is very important to do so now so that the corresponding budgetary changes are adopted before the adoption of the budget for the following year. The basic positions of the bill. Taking into account the experience of European countries, it is proposed to create a Ukrainian Book Institute – a state-owned non-profit institution that deals with the sphere of administration of the Ministry of Culture and is responsible for the implementation of public policy in the field of bookmaking, publishing, distribution and the support of the library sector. An example of a similar institution is the Polish Book Institute. The bill provides for a clear procedure for the appointment of the director of the Supervisory Board of the Institute, defines the authority of the Institute, foresees that the library support program, their funding, is a separate section of the National Cultural Strategy, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. I would ask only by voice to add two amendments if suddenly, as the committee recommended voting as a basis and generally that in article 7 of the Law on State Support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u166	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u167	exclude the location of the institute in Kiev because there are suggestions to make it in Kharkiv, Lviv, or Odessa. And in the draft article 9 of the Law on State Support, paragraph 3.2 of the bill, in part two, delete the word "in the fields of culture and art, economy, rights, sociology and publishing". So the head of the institute just has to have higher education because there's a lot of people doing it, but they don't have cultural education. The committee recommended voting on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u168	Thank you, Your Honor. The report to the committee and the rapporteur have been completed. Two for, two against, please two for, two against. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, let's support this bill and it's very good that there's no "against it," which means probably full support for this bill. Let's vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u170	Please, there was also Opanasenko's National Deputy, I think, yes, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u171	Please pass the word to Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u172	Irina Podowak, Self-help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, it is clear that the creation of such an institution as the book institution is very important for Ukraine. Clearly, such a bill must be supported. Only in the work on this bill have we had a few discussions and we have found several contradictions to the existing legislation that exists. So Self-Help will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor. I propose to everyone, my dear colleagues, to concentrate, to vote on this draft law as a basis and to prepare carefully for the second reading. Ready? Based on the base. Draft Law Registration No. 3084, Honorary Colleagues, amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the system of state administration in the book publishing sector, on the basis of this. Let's vote on the basis of 3084. Please vote, colleagues, book publishing. Please be supportive. [[13:30:27]] For 217 Friends, look, it's a book, it's a Ukrainian book. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, it's not a matter of political opinion. Please take all your seats. Please support this proposal. We're looking at it as a basis. This means that before we prepare for second reading, we will be able to make our proposals as national deputies and you will have 14 days to make amendments. So please support everyone. Let's do 3084 for the return. Colleagues, take your seats, please. And please support the bookstore.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u175	Colleagues, we're looking at the whole Ukrainian intelligence right now. I very much ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Ukraine has been waiting for this for many years, an entirely European bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u176	Friends, please, please return to the Bookstore (3084) and I ask your support, Your Honor. We vote for the return of 3084. I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, we vote. Please vote. That's it. [[13:31:48]] For 235 Got it. We're back. Now for the basis. Please vote 3084 on the basis. Vote. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[13:32:10]] For 233 The law in the first reading was approved as a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. We won't. I'd like to go back to the agenda again. Let us now vote so that the committees can deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u177	And immediately there will be the law of Soboljev. There will be the law of Soboljev. Colleagues, 3164. The Act amending article 184 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Differences in Legislation. Just one word to replace. Yes, technically, as far as I can tell. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. He stood by this law, we just didn't vote him out. He's been standing for a week, maybe two. It's an inclusion in the agenda of the day session, something we haven't finished with you. Please vote in favour. This is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session, allowing you to work on these issues. [[13:33:21]] For 178. No votes. 3196. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (with regard to the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes). Also, inclusion in the agenda continues to be considered on the committees. 3196 and 3197 are two combined draft laws. Please support their inclusion in the agenda. Ready? The schedule of the day’s session regarding the periods of pretrial investigation and the irreparability of punishing those who have committed serious, especially serious crimes. 3196, 3197. Include in the agenda of the day session. They're connected. Please support, this is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session, colleagues. [[13:34:18]] For 177 None. One at a time? Dear colleagues, Act 2311 of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve legislation in the area of the protection of the Ukrainian natural and command fund. Sergey Sobolev will report. There is an offer of the author to review the law by a reduced procedure. [[13:35:06]] For 172 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, this is a bill prepared by representatives of all factions who live in areas where there are forest plantings and where there is a natural-invention fund such as national reserves and natural parks. What is the problem with legislation? The problem with legislation is that in the creation of new national parks and a natural-invention fund, there's forest farms that are working on the development of wood in the area of these natural reserves. This is ridiculous. When the state took these territories for its protection, there was industrial exploration, development, and deforestation. This bill is forced to amend the five legislative acts of Ukraine, which provide that the conduct of economic activity in the areas of natural reserves takes place exclusively within the framework of legislation governed by the natural reserve fund. This allows all forest funds to be protected today, and this allows them to carry on exclusively farming activities that are not related to deforestation. In addition, the bill received support from a professional anticorruption committee that admitted that there was no corruption component. This bill received the support of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Professional Committee. The only professional warning committee made it clear that all issues relating to specific types of farming should be put into a separate bill. I, as the author, agree with that, and I would like to support this bill in the first reading, taking into account the amendments to the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the report of Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! With the forests in Ukraine, there is a really big problem and the situation is getting worse because, literally last week, at MinAPK College, the concept of forest management reform was adopted, where the forests decided in a completely opaque way to make branches and create a forest corporation. Thus, after a few years of this approach, cows and wheat will grow on the land of the forest fund. To partially solve the problem of the proposed bill (2311), where our committee on profiling, environmental policy, approved it, accepted it as a basis in the first reading, supported the concept of the bill, but with some caution. At the suggestion of the national deputy Tomenko Mikoli Volodymyrovic, it is proposed to support the bill excluding section I, paragraph 4, on proposed changes to the state-wide programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral and raw materials base until 2030. Also at the suggestion of Ukrainian National Deputy Ribak Ivan Petrovich, it is proposed that the draft law be redrafted for the second reading, the sub-paragraphs “from” and the sub-paragraph “and” of section I on Ukraine's proposed changes to the Law “On the Natural Reserve Fund”. The Cabinet of Ministers, in its conclusion, does not support the proposed bill on grounds of disagreement with the existing provisions of existing legislation. It has been said that the Committee on the Prevention of Corruption supports it, and our Committee on Environmental Policy is also proposing to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u181	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need for, "against"? We don't have much time left. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! Then 2311 is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation in the area of the protection of Ukraine's natural-law foundation. There is an offer to accept it as a basis, and for that we need to take our seats, your fellow national MPs, to prepare for the vote. Let's vote for the base, 2311. Colleagues, take your seats, please. 2311, based on. Signal vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Signal vote. [[13:40:22]] For 199 Colleagues, let's try it again, 2311. Take your seats, please, colleagues. 2311. Colleagues, an important law on the basis of your support, please. Ready? Please vote on the basis. This is a signal vote, colleagues, 2311. We're voting on the basis. Signal vote. [[13:41:09]] For 203 Well, he doesn't get the amount he needs. Colleagues, I'm counting on him to be considered discussed and we'll put him up. And we'll put him to the vote tomorrow. Guys, let's move on. Let's move on, dear fellows. So 2311 we're going to include for tomorrow as discussed earlier. Let's move on. Draft Law 2495. Colleagues, we have one of Olga Vadimovna, head of the committee, the Mantis is making such a request, so there's a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine." There is this determination, there is an offer: to consider it as a basis and as a whole. Is there an understanding of this question? Decision No. 2513a, it's in your papers, draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine." Colleagues, proposal: to consider a draft regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine". If we can consolidate voices into medical doctrine, let's try the signal. Consideration of the Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine". Please vote. [[13:42:58]] For-200 She didn't get the necessary amount. Colleagues, we still have Law 2495, we can do it. 2495, now goes 2495, look, 2495. For a brief discussion, please specify. [[13:43:42]] For-179 Please report. 2495, Jaroslav Moskalenko. John Ivanovich Kulichenko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Budgetary Questions has considered draft Law 2495, which proposes to clarify the formulation of the Budget Code on the allocation of medical subsidies to the national local budget, without altering the substance of the Budget Code. The possibility of diversifying legislation in terms of channelling local health budgets is eliminated. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of the law and notes that its implementation does not affect the Budget Act for the current year. The Budget Committee recommends that Law 2495 be considered as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss pros and cons? I think we're going to think of it as discussed earlier, and then we're going to bring it in, just like 2311. Colleagues, we still have Law 1043. But before that, I'm giving you a chance to make a statement. Oleg Lazko. Application for recess. I have a statement from two factions: The Radical Party and Self-Help is about declaring a statement. Please. Break change, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u184	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear fellow members of the national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to the egregious facts of the falsifications of the local elections currently being observed by the entire country. In particular, tonight, at 3 p.m., a district district election committee gathered in Cherkas, and the results of this committee's meeting suddenly revealed that the political parties that were estimated to have been on the district commission were gone today. In particular, according to the election, for example, the UKROP had seven mandates in the district council, there was no one left, the Afghan party had five mandates -- there is no one, Freedom had seven -- already six. Instead, the Opposition Block, which was estimated to have received 3 percent of the vote, suddenly gained six percent and received five deputies in the district council, and the Peter Prashenko Block, a failed party, instead of 18 deputies, suddenly received 24 deputies in the district council plus six. The same thing, I understand you're applauding forgeries, people don't applaud these forgeries. The same thing in the Kyiv region today, as a result of the night session of the commission, they took the votes in the Fatherland, in the Radical Party, in the UKROPA, instead, they wrote the "Prashenka Block" three mandates and brought them to the Kyiv District Council "The Opposition Block", which, according to all the surveys and calculations, did not go there at all. All of these facts testify to the massive falsifications that are going on in the country today, when in fact the power of the Central Electoral Commission, which is illegal, is rewriting the results of elections that do not correspond to the citizens' will, which they discovered on October 25, 2015. Therefore, given the situation, I demand that the parliamentary majority vote immediately in Parliament on the issue of the resignation of the Central Electoral Commission and the appointment of a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. I also call on the Security and Prosecutor's Office authorities to initiate criminal prosecutions for the falsification of elections in a number of areas, including the facts he has just reported. In addition, the Radical Party demands the parliamentary majority, the power to release Attorney General Viktor Shokin and the head of the Basil Gretzak Security Service. These two officials today are pursuing opposition national MPs, the opposition political forces that the regime considers to be a threat to the regime. There is an illegal hearing of national MPs, illegal monitoring of them, with deputies from different factions and nonfractionals. I warn the Ukrainian society that authorities today are using all of the possibilities repressive to establish the U.S. Dusty dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u185	I would like to consider this a crime claim and accordingly to have the law enforcement authorities examine and evaluate the matter in a manner consistent with their powers and competences. The only one I have is a question. when the ballot boards are counted locally, they have all the protocols. And every member of the electoral commission should have a protocol. [[B in m in s a l in]] From! And these facts need to be verified. And I feel that if anyone has allowed himself to write in anything, he should be put in prison. And if not, the responsibility should be to involve those who do. Who knows what he's doing. Colleagues, 1043. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 136 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (on Wages and Material Responsibility of Workers). Bill of the People's Deputy, Sergio Mishchenka. There is an offer by the author to discuss it and to consider it in a simplified manner. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. [[13:50:37]] For-143 Colleagues, consideration of the simplified procedure provides for a discussion that we can complete by the end of the morning session. So it's perfectly logical to support this proposal. 1043. The author's proposal is by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote on consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:51:07]] For-147 Colleagues, I would like to point out that we don't have much time until the end of the plenary meeting in the morning. Please, the author requests that this draft law be considered by a reduced procedure. Please. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Review of the simplified procedure. [[13:51:48]] For 148 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. This bill applies to every working person, and today we have the possibility of burying the basic injustice that exists in labour legislation. What kind of injustice is this? Everyone knows that there is a presumption of innocence in our country, but there is no such innocence in the labour legislation. Everyone knows that no one should prove his guilt or guilt, no one must prove that he is not a camel. In labor law, unfortunately, since Soviet times, this rule has existed. What is it? If any material damage has been done at the company, if the employee agrees, then there are no questions, it is calculated from the salary, these losses. But if the employee does not agree that we have legislation today? Everything is equal to it, and the wages are going to be the sums. In other areas, what should be done by the person who wants to recover these funds for these material damage? She goes and proves the fault of this employee, who disagrees, to a trial. Unfortunately, the Labour Code is built from Soviet times, which says that an employee should go to court and prove that he did not do this material damage. So the bill is very simple, it applies to millions and millions of our citizens. So I ask in this field, in the labor, in the main sphere where every person works, to return to European norms, to civilization, and to do, as in all areas, that the presumption of innocence in labour legislation should work. All conclusions are positive. That's why I'm asking, Vladimir Borisovich, not to put him to the vote right now, because there are very few people in the room who are looking after our working people, but to put him on the stand when at least two thirds of the national MPs are here to vote for this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u187	Thank you, but please stay in the rostrum, there are three minutes to go. Dear colleagues, the reporter urged us not to vote, but to discuss it. Talk about it, yeah. That is why we follow the full procedure, as we voted. And I would like to invite you to the co-report of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Wessel Natalia Vasilovna. There is no Natalia Vasilovna. So let's go to the next point in the order of the day -- three minutes from the factions. Anyone who wishes to comment on the bill, please register with the factions. Please. Miroshenko Yuri. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko. I'd like to draw your attention to that situation. Which is very often what we talk about democracy, the rule of law, but we're replacing our logic with political or other purpose. This law is simple, obvious to any lawyer. The presumption of innocence, the rule of law and the need to prove the guilt of any person are the principles on which any legal system is built. In my opinion, we now have to support this bill at least in terms of what we have to do to protect the rights of ordinary citizens, especially when it comes to labour rights, especially when it comes to such a difficult, difficult period for our country. So, dear colleagues, let's not divide it into a majority and a minority, but let's all support the right legislative initiative of a lawyer who works long and systematicly to protect human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u189	Unguran, People's Front, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u190	Praise Jesus Christ Forever! Dear colleagues, I think we're looking at a very important question right now. Of course, this question can be treated as the spirit of the law, from the point of view of the letter of the law. From the point of view of the letter of the law, there are some warnings, quite correct, from the point of view of financial security, which can lead to certain losses if this is done in the public service system. If you speak according to the spirit of the law, surely the idea of the author of the law is perfectly, perfectly correct. But I would like to draw attention to one more aspect. Tomorrow we will listen, at least we have planned liberalisation laws for the EU. And among them is the new Labour Codex on first reading. I would like to bring to your attention that at this point in the Ukrainian community, on the Internet, in so-called social organizations that lobby for the rights of the LGBT community, the idea of imposing a presumption of guilt in labour relations, if you, as an employer, refused to work for the person, in taking into account professional incompetence, incompetence, should be applied, according to these LGBT communities, the principle of guilt, and the employer should admit that he did not discriminate against such a person. I think it's totally unacceptable. And since 2006, it has been the fourth or fifth attempt by Ukraine at these totally unnatural. The illegal way of turning into a dictatorship of so-called, so-called civil society, which consists of 00 wholes of some percentages, which I think are completely wrong sexual behavior. So I think we need to apply the only principle, the principle of presumption of innocence, to the questions and the Labour Code that we will consider tomorrow, and to the issues that are at stake today. The presumption of guilt is totalitarianism. The presumption of innocence is correct. So let us work together to protect both the rights of employers and the rights of workers, but only in a manner that is legal and that corresponds to our spiritual, Christian paradigm of life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u191	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the bill is timely and really necessary. And we have to vote in favour of Bill 1043. But just as important are the draft regulations that were in order today, such as the recognition of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people, the bill on honoring the participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident and the measures involved. Because today it's not a secret that we can at all, Ukraine, not pay the salaries of employees who are working for the CAES today and will be "Hidden" and that's important enough. And today we are. If we continue to consider drafts like this, we will miss out on many important decisions. So I probably have a reasonable suggestion today to listen to these two draft decrees, and tomorrow to vote as discussed. Support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u195	Please turn it on. Turn the microphone on on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u196	Sidorovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! This bill raises a problem that actually exists in legislation to some extent, but the way it is solved, unfortunately, does not correspond to the social interests that exist. Why? Because once again, the balance of interests between an employer and an employee must be maintained. I would like to remind you that today's existing law contains a rule that sounds like this: if the employee disagrees with the calculation or its size, the labour dispute is considered in accordance with the order envisaged by the legislation. That form of solution to this problem, which is proposed in the bill, will make it impossible, in principle, to impose any damage that a worker can do. Let me remind you that we have a category of employees who have full or partial material responsibility. I agree with my colleague that this problem needs to be solved, but unfortunately it's not in the way that we're offered in this bill. Moreover, in general, our labour legislation is completely socialistic, and it is totally not in line with the market relations that have emerged in the field of labour law today in Ukraine, which has long ceased to be a socialist republic. So in this case, I think that this bill needs to be worked out and even better focused on the work under the new Labour Code, not just because it is now going into the walls of the Supreme Council, but rather to work out the Labour Code, which will actually enable the relationship between an employer and an employee to maintain those balances, those relationships between all subjects in the field of labour law, and allow for a balanced algorithm to solve all problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I continue to work until 14.15 p.m. We've got the National MPs on the table now, the time is extremely limited, by 14:15, and I'm going to have to close the morning session. And please record the performance. Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! I want to explain to you, you think it's 2015, and it's been going on for 30 years, and it hasn't been changed in other convocations. That's what they tried to do, and why couldn't they change it? Because there has always been a struggle between employers and employees. Therefore, the one who does not want all these changes is aware that he is working for his employers. Because the only rule that does not protect an employee today is in the Labour Code that an employee must prove that he is innocent. And so, frankly, I'm not surprised by the approach of some MPs who are protecting the employer, because the employer is better off collecting this salary from him and knowing that today the judicial congregations are huge, that this employee is not going to go to court to argue and fight the employer. And what are those who lobby all these industrial groups in the Supreme Council counting on? They don't stand by the common people, they don't want the workers to be protected. They want them to be unprotected at all times so that they can free them for no reason at all so that they can take the money away for no reason. Why other legislation, in other areas, presupposes innocence? They couldn't break it. They couldn't break it. They couldn't break it. They couldn't break it. Only one norm in our Ukrainian legislation is the Labour Code. And so clearly, you know, as a test: who's speaking and who's speaking for, you can see where they're on whose sides, because I'm not the one calling here. And this bill, as a lacquer paper, was in all the callings. All the conclusions have always been positive. Everyone understands that the presumption of employee innocence should work, everyone understands that, but lobbyists don't take a nap and they'll be here. And so I ask again, if there aren't so many people here, how many people now, and when there's really most deputies coming here, we're going to understand, here's most of the people or more of the oligarchs who stand up for this standard?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u201	Dear Ukrainians! The unions are independent and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions will support this initiative by the National MP Mishchenka. It is a truly just antioligartic and extremely progressive law. But the problem is even deeper. We have today a draft of the Labour Code, written by Papiev, "The Opposition Block" under the oligarchic groups. And I'm very sorry that most people have failed to produce their own Ukrainian progressive Labour Code that takes into account the interests of ordinary people, workers, hardworking workers. When it is said that a simple person might go to court with an employer, millions of ordinary Ukrainians will laugh. They definitely won't go to trial, because tomorrow, after the first court hearing, after the first statement, they're going to lose their jobs. Today, 2.5 million Ukrainians are unemployed. Most Ukrainians do not have a decent salary. We live in abject conditions, poverty, disrespect for the rights of ordinary Ukrainians. So it's obviously a violation of the rights of ordinary Ukrainians that today there are no more than 50 or 70 people's deputies in the Hall, and that we can't even vote on Wednesday that's important to the interests of ordinary Ukrainians. During Janukovic's time, we had a non-working day during the previous parliamentary call – a Friday when a quorum could not be gathered when it could not be voted on. We arrived at the pen: Today, neither on Wednesday nor on Tuesday nor on Friday, there is no parliament; it is empty. What does that mean? This means that the solution to this problem is not even in the Mishchenka bill or even in the adoption of the new Labour Code, but in the immediate need, the urgent need to elect a new parliament, to carry out a political illustration. There are dozens of deputies who have no moral right to be in the hall who have committed crimes against the people. There are a number of parties that have betrayed the Ukrainian people in the past, and they have not been able and will not be able to carry out reforms. So I'm addressing the President, I'm addressing the faction leaders: repent and relax. Let's go to a new election with a new law and let the new parties come to this parliament and save this country, sew this country up -- the left and right coast -- and give the country hope, and the simple people confidence in tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u202	Thank you. Levchenko gives the word to Andrew Illenka. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u203	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Honorable national MPs and the distinguished Ukrainian people, of course, must be supported by this law. All the right points have already been made. Because this law is small, but it is a step to protect a simple worker from an employer and enables a person to protect his employment rights, including those oligarchic monopolies that unfortunately continue to control our economy. But I would like to say from this high parliamentary rostrum that today, literally less than an hour later, at 3 p.m. in the Pecher District Court of Kiev on Gaitzana Street, there will be another court hearing for Jury the Orotyuk. In fact, today the court will decide whether to keep it under guard or to replace this precaution. And I call upon all concerned citizens, I urge journalists to come here, come to this court at three o'clock and demand justice, to demand that the person who is completely behind the preposterous, false charges are held behind bars, is finally released. I would like to address and thank all the Ukrainian national deputies who have signed the pledges to Yuri the Orphan, and I would like to say that, in fact, we understand that this is your human position, your human solidarity, we are very grateful for that. But I would also like to say that our fight today is not just a struggle for individuals, not just for Jury the Orphan and other political prisoners, it is a struggle for us to finally have a rule of law in Ukraine so that we don't have people thrown into prison for their political views, so that we can finally change the courts and the prosecutions, the militia, all those special services that continue to serve as political guards, not to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens. And today we realize that those defenders of the Constitution, who, after the bloody events of 31 numbers, are now in prison, are the people who are suffering today for their patriotic stand. The separatists don't sit, the regionals don't sit, the corruptionists don't sit, the volunteers sit, the patriots sit, the people who first began to defend their state in the east, which was actually made by Midan. This counter-revolution, this oligarchic rematch must be stopped. All the healthy political forces, all the healthy social forces have already realized that. And we have to continue the fight we started on Maidan. Freedom to the defenders of the Constitution! Freedom for Prisoners! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u204	Thank you. The last performance is Mikola Tomenko. And we're going to conclude the discussion of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask, considering that we now have the actual next bill of our committee, in fact, the bill is not written by us, but by the black people, so that we can be Thursday, Mr. Andrey, because he's next in line, we haven't forgotten to put it in place. Because once again, I want to say that I respect Sergio Mishchenka and his work on the bill that we are discussing. I think such a bill is necessary. Moreover, the work on this bill is likely to continue in the second reading, and it should continue with the trade unions, the Ministry of Social Policy, because the Association of Employers must be compromised. Of course, to protect the common people, and not only from the Kaplan Party, but all the ordinary people, the Ukrainians, I mean, but also to take into account the position of the Ministry, employers and trade unions. Instead, I'm asking, given that we're in the moment of history, the last minute of the Rules is coming up and we'd love to do some more work, because we're having a committee meeting right now, so that we don't forget the very important sign date that we're going to honor on April 26, and what my colleague John Rybak was talking about: 30 years of Chernobyl. So the 30th anniversary strategy plan is important to us today, because otherwise we won't be able to get into the budget to get a series of articles that are unfairly cancelled or suspended in 2015. I've already said that we find a common language with the Ministry of Social Policy and Finance in the area of the return of more than 4,000 people working in the alien zone. We have a very big problem today with the treatment system, unfortunately, the government, as before, in Soviet times generals have run a 30-mile radius and determined that, so now the circle is being conducted by Ministry officials and eliminated the fourth and actually part of the third zone. We need to eliminate pollution, so we have materials on every inhabited site, there are population points that need to be saved and that need to be financed, there are population areas where the situation has really changed. That is, we need the historical justice of those who saved our lives and saved the life of the world to respect at least 30 years of age. I conducted the reception of citizens on behalf of the Supreme Council, and people come and say that already those of the people who saved us who were fighting have only one left. Therefore, honoring those units is our sacred work. So, my friends, we support the bill that Sergey Mishchenko has reported, and I ask tomorrow that we should definitely consider the 30-year decree on the honor of Chernobyl and the Chernobylists who were protecting Ukraine. Thank you and happy committee work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-04-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed Bill 1043, and at the suggestion of most of the voting on it will be postponed, we have concluded the discussion. And before we finish our work, dear colleagues, I want to remind you. Tomorrow, Thursday, extremely important bills on visa-free liberalisation to enable Ukrainians to travel abroad without demeaning lines, without obtaining visas. Tomorrow these laws are also extremely important as anti-corruption, as a decisive blow by the Ukrainian Parliament on the dark corruption schemes that still exist in Ukraine. That's why I urge everyone to mobilize tomorrow. We are now starting committees on which these issues will be addressed. I urge the MPs to take the most active part in these meetings so that we can work together to make tomorrow a day of fighting corruption and going to Europe. I am at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., please: without delay, we are meeting here at the Supreme Council for fruitful and important work. Thank you. Good-bye.
