ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-01-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. People's deputies please take their seats, prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the hall. [[14:08:16]] 311 national deputies are registered in the hall. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Members of the Cabinet of Ministers, heads of central executive bodies, heads of the judicial branch, are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The presence of the officials chosen and appointed by the Supreme Council. Representatives of public organizations, the media, heads of foreign diplomatic representations and other officials. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call is declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-01-m0.u2	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-01-m0.u3	Honorable Ukrainian people, distinguished fellow national MPs, guests, and guests! On a very tragic day, the black day of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, we are opening another session of the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday, under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, more than 100 of our heroes were affected by the hands of criminals and murderers — boys who defended Ukraine's right to democracy, by parliamentaryism, who were doing their job with honor, and who were doing their civic duty. According to data today, three people were killed by villains who allowed themselves to be killed in the center of the capital. Young boys, a little over 20 years old, are someone’s children, they are people who could live, who could make families, give birth to children. But no, it's different. I urge you to honor the memory of our heroes. [[A Minute of Silence]] I want to personally, on behalf of you, on behalf of all the normal citizens of our nation, to thank you for having done their duty, to do their work of quality, respecting the right to peaceful meetings. We call on the entire law enforcement system to find everyone involved and anyone involved in this terrorist attack, I'm not afraid of that word, to bear the very strict responsibility, including the political responsibility of turning a totally peaceful meeting into death and bloodshed. I'm convinced that it's at this very time that Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian society, are expecting quality work from parliament, not populism, because today I can't call it cheap, people need to make quality, democratic decisions, decisions that will change our country. And I am convinced that it must be a responsibility for each of us. We're the Parliament that came after the Dignity Revolution. We must be with you accountable to those who have given their lives for our independence and freedom. And I urge that from today we show a completely different quality of parliamentaryism, respect, respect for one another, so that Ukrainians are proud of the Ukrainian Parliament, which is to bring stability to our state, peace and quality of life to the people. I call upon all the people's deputies, all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, to accept a joint statement on yesterday's events, to commit themselves to perpetuating the norms of parliamentaryism, the Rules. I'd like us to come out with you for a new quality of our work together. Among us, dear colleagues, are the boys who have protected and protected our country. I spoke of the deaths and injuries of the Nazgardites, who faithfully carried out their duties. And now I want to invite one of the representatives of the volunteer movement, the man who stood and stood in the mouths of the National Guard, our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Berezu. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-01-m0.u4	It's very difficult and not just today to talk about what happened yesterday. In fact, three brothers died under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament yesterday. Three National Guard fighters who carried out their duties. You know, in a year and a half, I buried a lot of people, but they died in the East, they died from the enemy's bullets. Tell me, whose bullet did these three young boys die from? Why, today in my country, do boys die of politics? Why, in my country, do guys die for each of us defending democracy under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament? You know, I've had a lot of, all night, practically, phoned guys from the front, east, they asked me to explain why? The answer is neither clear nor simple. You know, I think we've had enough of playing games where mothers hide their children! And these three soldiers, I'd like someone to come and hide those soldiers with me. And then maybe we'll think more about what we're doing here. About how we do it here. No one's gonna give us a country, we're gonna have to bite under the enemy's fire, and I'm scared of what the enemy seems to be going behind my back! You know, none of us are protected, no one will be protected until not only criminal responsibility, but also political responsibility for all our actions will be the norm in my state. I don't know, I don't know how to look my mother in the eye. How do we explain why children, not on the front, but in Kiev, were killed in the center of the capital? And that's why I urge everyone, colleagues, friends, brothers, we need to end this misunderstanding in our relationship. If we don't conclude now, we're going to repeat the 17th year, if we don't unite now, we're going to lose this state. And there is no excuse for it, and in this world we will not receive, nor will God forgive us, nor will men forgive us. I now ask for a moment of silence to honor the memory of the dead soldiers of Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-01-m0.u5	I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
