ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u1	Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our work. Please take your seats in the hall. At the morning meeting, my dear colleagues, I would like your attention, we have voted on the changes to the calendar. The following week will be a week’s work on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And here I would like to ask the board of directors, and today I'm going to sign this commission to do two things. First. We have two thousand laws that are in Parliament. Some of them are low enough to speak modestly. So I wanted to ask you, my dear colleagues, to consider on the committee, everyone in their sphere of competence, these laws. And second position. We've determined which ones to recommend to Parliament not to consider, and others have identified which are extremely important for adoption. And remember, we can pass 40-45 laws in a week. And I would also ask you to take into account, your fellow national MPs, the legislative reform plan, which sets out 488 laws to be adopted for the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union, the implementation of the coalition, the coalition agreement, the other strategic documents - "Strategy 2020" and the Government Action Plan. So the challenge is this week to work qualityly, and we've been able to form three plenary weeks that we're going to have in November, a quality law review system. I also have the apparatus, and we will do so. Let's publish all the committee meetings with personal visits, and where it's possible now, including online broadcasts. That is why such an assignment will be for the committees today. And I ask the committees to deal with this issue, to examine the 2,000 laws that are in Parliament, and to identify the highest priorities. And I would also like to take into account a defined plan for legislative reform. Thank you for your understanding of the honourable fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. [[16:08:56]] 315 national deputies registered. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft Act (Registration No. 3072) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the creation of preconditions for the new natural gas market model. Please, Your Honor, report to Deputy Minister Igor Didenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, Bill No. 3072 is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. On April 9, 2015, the Supreme Council adopted a new progressive Law on the Natural Gas Market. This is the first system law in Ukraine that has been adopted in full agreement and cooperation with the secretaries of Nordic society in accordance with the third energy package. Since October 1, 2015, this law has entered into force. The Natural Gas Market Act commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to draft a bill to harmonize the existing laws of Ukraine with the newly adopted Natural Gas Market Act. This bill was prepared by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, was agreed upon by the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Utilities, and so all its standards were carried out through testing in international consultants and secretariats of energy co-operation. In addition to terminology, major changes are proposed for such laws. The Code on Administrative Offences harmonizes the types of offences and sanctions for illegal actions in the natural gas market with article 59 of the Natural Gas Market Act. The Law on Pipeline Transport of Ukraine agrees with the provisions of the Natural Gas Market Act in the part of the operation of gas transport and gas distribution networks. The laws of Ukraine on State and Municipal Property Rental, on State Property Management, on State Property Privatisation, provide for the possibility of payment of rent and exclusive lease, concession or gas distribution systems in accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which provides that the renter is entitled to rent. The system will be performed by the State Economic Sector entity designated by the Cabinet of Ministers. It should be added that the Cabinet of Ministers has already made an appropriate government decision. The U.S. Oil and Gas Act amends the scope of the Act with the aim of removing the Colosseum by the Natural Gas Market Act. The Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies provides for the possibility of using sanctions on the part of the independent regulator of the National Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Municipal Services for the violation of the natural gas market in accordance with article 59 of the Natural Gas Market Act. The Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act removes the qualification of natural gas supply as a residential service in connection with a substantial change in the approach to regulation of the natural gas market provided for in the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. The Heat Supply Act changes the features of the current account regime and the special regime for the use of heat-generating and heat-supply companies for the calculation of natural gas used. The Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act has moved the deadline for establishing gas counters to prepare food by April 1, 2017. There is also a competitive environment for performers and counters, increased sanctions for the failure to install the counters by responsible entities and for refusing to install the gas counters provided for in the creation of a single natural gas subscriber base, which is critical for the full use of natural gas in Ukraine, which will prevent corrupt patterns and schemes of the past, when cheap gas, which has been implemented at prices for the needs of the population, was then released through gas-dispersed networks in the Ukrainian industry. The Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees provides a mechanism for technical auditing and replacement of inefficient gas appliances in consumers who receive subsidies for the payment of natural gas consumed and use obsolete gas equipment, particularly at the expense of the State Budget. The Ukrainian Law on the licensing of commercial activities has agreed on a list of licensed activities and authorities responsible for the approval of licensing conditions, in accordance with article 9 of the Law on the Natural Gas Market. It also provides for a one-month period from the date of approval of new licensing conditions for natural gas supply activities, which should be based on licences for the supply of natural gas to be issued by an independent regulator. This rule provides for the fight against fictitious butterfly enterprises, which for many years have done nothing but avoid taxation and create a reduction in an effective financial base in the Ukrainian budget. The Natural Gas Markets Act provides for the obligation of gas distribution system operators to use current accounts with a special use regime when receiving funds from consumers, which also prevents abuse of state and quasi - state finances. The Act specifically provides that the amendments to the Housing Services Act do not deprive persons entitled to benefits and subsidies of payment of municipal services in accordance with legislation, the right to receive benefits and subsidies for payment of natural gas. In view of the general need for a new law to be put into operation, and we held consultations at all the meetings and consultations in the same way with the business office, which is now divided into our transport and supply functions. The bill was agreed upon by all central executive authorities. Similarly, consideration was given to the Supreme Council Committee. And so the ministry and the government are asking to support this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. If you ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for questions and answers, 3 minutes. Please. An enrollment on the question to the reporter. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u4	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for an honourable reporter as a representative of the government first of all. Please tell me, is this bill essentially an attempt to privatize Ukraine's gas transport system? And there are no appropriate risks when it comes to concessions, leases and other mechanisms of essentially disguised privatization. Please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. The bill has nothing to do with the high-pressure gas transport system, which is Ukraine’s main gas pipeline. It's only about gas distribution networks that are now made up of state property, private property, utility property, cooperative property, and shared property. Thus, no secret or open privatization of the gas transport system is envisaged here, and this is against government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u6	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u7	Mr. Igor, it's a good thing we've been devoted to energy security all day. But the natural question is, why has the government and the ministry been preparing changes to those laws regarding the natural gas market that the Supreme Council has been working for so long? I mean, maybe the government has different approaches on this issue. What other problems to bring order to Ukraine’s natural gas market as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u8	Thank you for asking. As I said before, this law was voted by honourable parliamentarians on April 9. The President only signed it on May 7. So since May 8, we started working with international institutions, namely the Energy Society Secretariat. As I said before, this law is made on the basis of European legislation. So all the suggestions that we created and reconciled were translated into English, and they were sent to Vienna. Vienna had a discussion, then it was translated back, and then all our European partners went on vacation. And already in the government, this bill was literally from the first numbers of September, and at the last session, it was also ready for consideration. And we would be very grateful if you, by dividing the position of the honourable representative of Tomenka, were to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u9	Thank you. Last question, Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u10	I have a question for the next plan. This is the first time we've had a bill that says that we're taking the license terms away from the Cabinet of Ministers and passing it on to another structure, and that's kind of an exclusion. I have a simple question. Why is the national regulator, who today is the NCRE KP, delegated authority to determine the licensing conditions and their liquidation? Are we not creating a monster that is now practically a lever of market redistribution, a lever of asphyxiation, let's say one competitor to another, that is, it's a component of corruption in our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. The transfer of the functions of licensing the service of gas supply from the Cabinet of Ministers to the NCRE KP was a requirement of the secretariat of the Energy Community because it is a established practice of European countries. We're as worried as you are that the regulator isn't just going to be, let's say, a routine addition to calculating numbers and balancing power, but to be a really third-party arbitrator in the energy market. So it's completely natural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u12	Thank you. The question was closed, and the question was completed. Please, the report is Olga Belkova, deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, in fact, there is little to add to the Deputy Minister’s report. But I'm going to try to focus your attention on some of the nuances that were discussed on the profile committee. Well, first of all, it should be noted that this bill is aimed at implementing paragraph 8 of the Act on the Natural Gas Market, which, according to our decision, has already entered into force. The bill provides for amendments and additions to the 17 laws of Ukraine that need to be brought into line in connection with the adoption of the above - mentioned law. The Code on Administrative Offences, the Harmonization of Its Provisions with Article 59 of the Law on the Natural Gas Market; the Law of Ukraine on Pipeline Transport; the Law of Ukraine on Oil and Gas; the Law of Ukraine on Natural Monopolies; the Laws of Ukraine on State and Municipal Property Rental, the Law on State Property Management, the Law on Privatization of State Property. In accordance with article 37 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, the renters of gas distribution systems owned by the State will be subject to the management of the State sector of the economy, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To Ukraine's Housing Services Act. Rules on the classification of natural gas supply as residential services are deleted according to the approaches for regulating the natural gas market provided for in the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act. Ukraine's Heat and Energy Act provides for a transition from the term "guaranteed supplier" to the term "supplier of natural gas with special duties". Ukraine's "Procurement of Commercial Accounting of Natural Gas" law refers to the term "Installing Gas Calculators to Prepare Food" until 01.04. 2017 in line with the gas sector reform plan. To the Ukrainian law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. The mechanism for carrying out technical audits and replacing inefficient gas-consuming equipment in consumers receiving subsidies for the payment of natural gas consumed and using outdated gas-consuming equipment, such as at the expense of the state budget. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis. On September 16, 2015, at its meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of its first reading, to adopt bill 3072 on the basis of which it requested the Supreme Council of Ukraine to shorten by half the deadlines for the submission of comments and proposals by subjects of the right of legislative initiative to draft a bill for submission to the Supreme Council on second reading. I would also like to point out that the government has twice passed this bill, and there are such changes in the updated version. First. The owner of the gas distribution systems owned by the State will be the owner of the state economic sector, as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A direct action rule has been added, according to which amendments to the LAG Act do not deprive citizens of the right to subsidies and benefits to pay for natural gas consumed. A rule has also been removed for new NCRE-authorised internal-building KPs. A lowering factor of 0.5 has been removed in the event that consumers refuse technical audit. Amendments to the Licensing Act have been added, and amendments to the Natural Gas Market Act have been added to the obligation of the gas transport operator to open accounts with a special mode of use. All these changes were made according to the discussion that occurred on the profile committee. So please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, three minutes to ask, please. Please, Leo Podlisecki, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u15	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u16	Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question, but, first of all, a comment to the Head of the Supreme Council on what the bill should be discussed and concluded by several committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, in the list of committees that should have considered the bill is the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. On our committee, this bill has not been considered, but the law proposes to make substantial changes to the Housing Services Act. I'm asking for your attention, honourable deputies, what this is going to be about: this is about excluding from the housing and utility list the gas supply service. Dear colleagues, this means that today the order of the grant, the aid that is being extended to the gas supply services, will not actually spread.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u18	Please, just one more minute, since you had two entries, one word was passed on to Alona Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u19	It will not spread to the service of gas supply. Moreover, the bill introduces a new service – the service of internal-house gas supply networks. Therefore, today, according to the regulations that are in place to implement the Natural Gas Market Act, consumers in a multi-house apartment will have to make three contracts for gas supply services: a gas supply contract, a gas distribution contract and an internal-house network contract. Your Honor, where are we going? This is a totally abnormal situation that needs to be rectified. Moreover, we are now writing a new edition of the Housing and Utilities Act, where the service of gas supply should remain residential. In addition, I want to point out that the service for internal-building networks will be at a marginal price to be set by the NCRE KP. It's the same regulation and unnecessary increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u20	Thank you. Please, Igor Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u21	Dear friends, I want to fully support Alona Babak. Because this law actually creates huge inconveniences, directly, in the gas supply and in the internal networks, external networks as a whole. But the question, Mrs. Olu, is to you. The 213 amendment that we talked about, which was so advocated, and today's bill should just divide the network about what we talked about on the committee: private, state, stock and so on. How will this system be calculated when this law is passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u22	Thank you. There's a minister. Please comment for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment briefly on Mrs. Babak's comment. In fact, all the changes made to the Housing and Utilities Act are balanced, and they don't in any way affect the potential risk of not receiving subsidies. All citizens will receive a subsidy in the amount they should receive. Therefore, please do not call attention to such comments. In addition, in the law itself, we have clearly written that any change does not in any way affect subsidies. As far as I'm concerned. And what I want to say about networks is that, according to this law, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy will have the right to be dissolved within a month of a contract that exists at the moment with a lie and to implement, i.e. to sign new leases with a fee. Right now, we've come up with this typical agreement, we've sent it out for approval. Hopefully, in the near future, he'll be in agreement and we'll be offering signs. But in any case, it's going to be a pay-per-view of this infrastructure, yes. Because this infrastructure costs a lot of money, we're going to do a market assessment together with the Holding Fund, we're going to figure out an adequate rent and we're going to take it out of the slips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u24	Thank you. Please log in from factions, three minutes from factions. Please, Burbak Maxim Yuriovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u25	My fellow Members, I am addressing all MPs, we still need to accept these bills with a simplified package today in order to start reforming the gas market. Since October 1, the law has entered into force, and these three bills: 3072, 3073 and 3074 -- require our approval and support. Once again, let's start reforming the gas market in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u26	Thank you. Please, the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u27	I give the word to Levko Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u28	Leo Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u29	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I'd like to take another look at what my colleague Alona Babak said. In fact, such haste in the adoption of this bill, which is very important, which we absolutely support, is the idea of putting in place a working gas market, a natural gas market, but these issues that concern subsidies and utilities -- they may not be fully regulated because they have not passed the relevant committee. I wanted to say one more thing. I literally went through Ukraine last week, and at each district center, the most people complain about the grant procedure. And when I started to figure out what the point is, it turns out, not about the allocation of subsidies, but about the accounting procedure, because people are required to come into every "possess", to give a precise name, about the sources of gas consumption, about the equipment that is installed. And later, due to certain social standards, the amount of subsidies is allocated. As far as I'm concerned, it's a completely wrong approach, because it doesn't stimulate energy consumption and energy conservation. If we were to move away from that function and from that approach and allocate subsidies exclusively from consumption, it would be a much simplified procedure and there would be no human issues. With regard to the activities of the gas industry, which actually sabotage the process of implementing the Natural Gas Market Act, and these services for people to clarify the data in registers, they just block, they put in place four-day work days in all kinds of hoaxes, they create huge queues, obstacles to people. And here I believe that it is imperative that the Ministry and the NCRE intervene in this procedure. I think the easiest way out is to simplify the grant procedure by assigning subsidies from consumption, not social standards. This applies both in water supply and in other directions. But the Self-Help faction will still abstain from voting for the bill in order to go through the committees and remove all the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u30	Please, People's Deputy Onufric, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u31	Dear Mr. Head, please pass the word to colleague Igor Nasalik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u32	Dear friends, today we have heroically adopted a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce the cost of gas, namely on rent. But I have to say that this is the result of what we took in the budget, the rent, 70 percent, and they also said that we're fighting oligarchs, so we transferred it to the population. The bill, which is adopted in 3072, is similar. You're renting the lower part of the pressure, and this rent is going to be passed on to no one but the population. So I ask everyone, without exception, not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lozovy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u34	Yuri Chizmar, Radical faction. Dear colleagues, the bill under consideration was long overdue because by October 1st, the Law on the Gas Market was to be introduced. But as we can see, he arrived very late. And during this period, I think the bill had to go through all the profiling committees that had to give their conclusions. Including the professional committee on entrepreneurship and industrial policy, which should have checked how much the form of licensing that is laid down in this law corresponds today to the legislation of Ukraine and the anti-corruption policy that we establish. What do we do with this law? This is the law we want to pass on to NCRE CP licensing activities on the gas market. We know what NCRE KP is today. NCRE KP is the body that today has set tariffs that do not meet the market conditions and opportunities of our citizens. The NCRE KP is the body that today has unjustifiably raised its tariffs on Ukrenergo. And that's how the autotransformators are bought into Grigoris today. So today, corruption has eaten through this body. And we're giving him extra weights to manage the market. This will not end as a market redistribution. So I don't think we can break the system that's been in existence for years. We need to simplify the licensing system today. But the Cabinet of Ministers is the only body affected today by the Supreme Council should determine the licensing conditions. So that we can still make sure that licensing conditions are not adapted to individual manufacturers and individual oligarchs today. And so the market was oligarized in Ukraine. Therefore, I believe that this law cannot be passed in part of the license, and accordingly it should be aimed at redrafting the bill. And it's got to go through all the profile committees. Everyone has to draw conclusions from the profile committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u35	Thank you. Please give 3 speeches from the deputies. Sign up for two minutes, please. Two minutes from the deputies. Alexander Kugel, two minutes. Alexandra Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u36	Thank you. First of all, I'm supporting my colleagues that we need to be able to have committees that are also profiled look at these documents. As the author of the licensing bill, there is a clear rule that all changes affecting licensing and licensing authorities must go through the basic bill. Secondly, understanding the warnings made by my colleague, Alona Babak, about the possibility of making three contracts today for the tenants of many apartments, is unacceptable. I suggest you go to Kievenergo today, or Kyivgaz, or to others, and look at the ranks of the people who are making these contracts there. And third. Mr. Minister, I registered Bill 2423 three months ago, which is titled "The Specialities of Transfer to Rental of Gas Disposal Systems in State and Municipal Property". I don't know how you managed to consider a bill today, not an alternative bill. And they need to be looked at together. There are now state institutions that can be transferred to the administration, approved the methodology, set large tariffs, conditional on 1 bracelet of value, and then you can continue to consider the bill. The Fatherland faction will not vote for this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u37	National Deputy Vitaly Kurilo, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u38	I'd like a word with Alexia Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of reforming the gas market is an extremely important issue. Moreover, six months ago we passed the Law on the Gas Market, yes, we fought for it. Now I have a question. What was Kablin doing for six months? Well, did he have to prepare for this reform? Now we're practically in abject mode, we have to solve these issues, don't we? And actually the vote would have to go into two rounds, well, first on the basis. Then in the second reading and in general. Now, we're being deprived of this right now to start this reform. That's why we have to be supportive. But to Kabmin, let's say, persistent. Still, it is effective to carry out their functions. And if we decide and say to the world that it's a huge reform, a gas reform, that it's the right thing to do, and we say to the Europeans that it's one of our visors and a new quality of work, we have to work from the beginning to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u40	Please, people's MP Janicki, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u41	Please pass the word to Belkovi, deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, well, I remind you once again that we have already passed the law on the natural gas market. A colleague named Babak, a colleague of Kugel, made some warnings. They really do exist. But all these points can be corrected between the first and the second readings. That's why the committee, when discussing this bill, insisted on it, including involving a profile committee of someone else who was involved in community services. All the remarks are correct. We have different ones. But this can be corrected between the first and the second. In fact, we made a commitment to adopt this law by October 1. We're actually doing this late. So I would ask you very much, despite those remarks, to support you in the first reading and to allow all the committees to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. Final word, Minister, please, Vladimir Demchisin, 3 minutes, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to respond carefully to this bill. I think most of you have forgotten that in fact the Law on the Market in Gas was passed in April. So today we are not introducing any new fundamentals. It's all about changing the relevant laws to get rid of any misunderstandings and contradictions in the old laws that exist. That's 17 laws. So if we don't do that today, the gas market will not function fully. There will be opportunities to be deceived, tried against the NCRE and against the State, against the Kabmin. So this is definitely what we need to consider. Now for the second question. You're saying we're doing something in an emergency mode right now. In fact, more than 20 NCRE regulations have been prepared, which have also been adopted. The 8 decrees of Kabmin were passed and the 17 laws were amended. In addition, two codes that we will now consider after this law. So over the course of these five months, fundamental work has been done together with the Energy Community, together with European advisors, together with all market participants. A huge job has been done to get this market to work. This is a choice for consumers to choose their suppliers. It's an opportunity to cancel the Naftogazu monopoly on the gas market. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked a lot about this today, about the fight against monopolies. These changes in laws are exactly the basis for the gas market to be demonized and to work in competitive mode. So all those who talk about supporting competition and combating monopolies, please reconsider your position. This law is a model of our reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the draft Law 3072 has been completed. Prepare to vote. 3072, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the creation of preconditions for a new model for the natural gas market. Please, 3072 is the basis. Identify yourself. 3072 on the ground. [[16:47:31]] For-129 No decision taken, my dear fellows. In accordance with the Rules, I will now make proposals for the return of the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft law. Colleagues, please concentrate. The return of the subject of the legislative initiative, respected colleagues. And I'm going to continue to give the commission, as was the faction's proposal to write it down on the profile committees to get everyone to look at it in detail. Do we have a deal? Roger that. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I will continue to refer the subject back to the committee for further consideration. Please return to the subject of the legislative initiative of the 3072 project. Colleagues, for your return, please vote. Return the subject, we vote. The return of the subject. [[16:48:55]] For 176 So the next proposal, my colleagues, is to go back to the committee to prepare for the re-reading, and I'm going to put it on the committee so everyone can take a look at this. Is such an offer accepted? Please, colleagues, 3072 referrals to the preparatory committee for re-reading. Please support this proposal, colleagues. Let's vote back to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. [[16:49:44]] For-179 The draft law is considered to be rejected. Registration number 3073, draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create a precondition for the new model of the natural gas market. They are related to these bills. At the suggestion of the committee’s chairman, 3073, 3074 is postponed, since all these bills are linked, we will transfer the matter to the committee. Colleagues, draft Law (registration number 2060a), but before that we have one organizational issue, colleagues. We need to form a full board of committees on three committees. Are you ready to support this initiative on three committees? Let's, before we start looking at 2060s on the committees. Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the Regulatory Committee, please inform. Colleagues, attention, I ask you to support this proposal for committee formation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 3116). The project envisions the election of a national deputy member of the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" faction, Berezenko Sergio Ivanovich, a member of the Committee on Health Affairs, according to a statement submitted by the National MP, Berezenk. The calculated quota for the "Peter Prashenka Block" of the MP Berezenko in the Health Committee has not been fully used. Accordingly, the Rules Committee proposes that the Supreme Council decide on Decree 3116 by voting and supporting it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u47	Colleagues, it is said that the newly elected deputy of the Supreme Council expressed a desire to work with the Health Committee. He applied accordingly for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask, my fellow Members, to take your seats is an organizational matter, my fellow Members of the Council. Please take your seats. 3116, draft Decree on the incorporation of the Committee of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Let's vote, colleagues, on the whole, the draft of Decree 3116. Vote. [[16:53:04]] For 176 Clearly, no decision has been made. Let's see if we can look at it again. Dear colleagues, let's move on. 2060a, draft of the Act on Measures for the Economic Stabilisation of the Black Seaftegas State Stock Association in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. He will report to the National MP, Mikola Martinenko, as the author of the bill and head of the Professional Committee. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to decide on the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure, and we vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:54:12]] For 132 Colleagues, more carefully, are proposing that the author of Bill 2060a consider the draft law in a simplified procedure. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote, be sure. [[16:54:43]] For-127 Report to me, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u48	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law has been developed in connection with the objective need to restore the full work of the Black Seaftegas National Shareholder Society as a strategic enterprise and to prevent the loss of assets. The bill proposes to impose moratoriums on the collection of company debt by January 1, 2017. During the operation, the moratorium is subject to the suspension of the executive conduct and enforcement of decisions regarding the enterprise that is subject to enforcement by the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. In this connection, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct accordingly. It is proposed that the law should be distributed to executives who are open to it to take effect in order to remove previously imposed arrests and unlock the operation of enterprises. It is also proposed to establish that checks by the supervisory authorities, in addition to the maintenance checks, are carried out between 1 January 2017 and only on the basis of an undertaking’s claim for its verification. Write off the tax debt for any taxes, for congregations, for obligatory payments arising from 1 January 2014 until the beginning of the temporary occupation determined by law. To determine that the contingent interest on the amount of the financial assistance remaining to be recovered is not included in 2014. So far, BlackMornaftegas cannot do the current work of recovering assets from abroad, because it can't pay for any services on its own or even the removal of workers. The lack of financial stability will lead to the obligation to eliminate society, according to part three of article 155 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, for reasons of inadequacy with regard to the size of its own capital. As a result, it will be impossible to protect Ukraine’s property interests in international judicial jurisdictions. The committee considered the bill at its meeting on June 17th and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the question-answers are there? Mikola Volodymyrovich, questions-responsibility of the people's deputies. Please. Three minutes to question-answer, please sign in. Please, Victoria Vojticka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u50	First of all, I want to say that the self-help union will support this bill. And I have a question not to the reporter, but to the minister. I very much hope that he will now listen carefully. The question is, what do we actually have going on with BlackMornaftegasus assets, directly with the so-called Boyk Heights? What do we as a state do to recover these assets, and what information do you have? Because with the media, we understand that these altitudes are now being used on a ship, not far from here, including, I understand, Odessy, and there's a full production of gas that is unfortunately not being used by Ukraine. So I want to ask you a question: what are we actually doing here to regain control of assets, and what will be the fate of those surpluses that have been purchased?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u51	Please, 20 seconds. That's enough, isn't it? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u52	May I? Thank you for asking. In fact, Ukraine lost some one and a half billion cubic feet [1.5 billion cubic meters] a year, losing those famous platforms that cost Ukraine about $800 million. In fact, a large volume, hundreds of billions of cubic meters of gas underground, in reserves. It's really a big problem, and it's being dealt with by law enforcement. The Ministry of Fuel Energy, on the other hand, has provided all the documents to the relevant competent authorities in order to have sufficient basis to, on the one hand, protect the rights of the State, on the other hand, I know clearly that Minust is preparing a suit for the Russian Federation, which also includes claims for Black Seafoot and assets located in the Black Sea Basin. That's going to be huge amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u54	Please give Sergey Lechchenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u55	Thank you, colleagues from Self-Help. I don't have a question about the bill, I support it. I have a question for the committee head. Mr. Martinenko, do you think you can continue to chair the committee if you are under Swiss investigation? 30 million francs of bribes are paid to you by the Panamanian company. Two times before, Switzerland has been sending out requests for Shockin, Shockin is hiding them, he's not conducting interrogations, he's not taking out documents. How long will you lead this committee under investigation by Switzerland? Don't you want to write a resignation application right now so there's no conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u56	Thank you for asking. I'm not going to write a resignation application because your lying accusations are not about the documents, they're about someone's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, would you please continue to discuss the draft law? Please log in from factions. Three minutes from the faction, please. Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. From factions and groups, please log in. Please, People's Deputy Kiral, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u58	Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to convey the word Yuri Boyko to answer the question that my colleague Vojcicka Victoria asked, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u59	Boyko. People's deputy Boyko. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's not in the hall. National MP Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I'd like this session hall to deal with what's about to be voted on. So, first, where are the assets now, except for the Herson area, the small company BlackMornaftogas? In the occupied area of Crimea. What are we doing? If we get rid of the Blackmorenephtogas debts, I think we can't do it now -- and this is the question of both the prosecution and the procurator -- at least "keep on hook" the occupying state, which now controls our property in Crimea territory without paying, think about it, 115 million 126 thousand 239 dollars, and 43 more copies of the government's debt. So this bill proposes to forgive these debts that BlackMornaftegaz owes to the state of Ukraine and to tax Ukraine. Now, I'd like to hear Nasirov here tell us how we forgive the occupying state, which controls our property -- BlackMornaftogaz, 115 out of the millions of dollars of unpaid taxes! What are these gifts?Oh, my God! I think we need to figure out what's going on here in BlackMornaftegas, what's this 115 million tax debts? I'm sure that this sum should continue until we return BlackMornaftegaz to the property of the state of Ukraine, or until we declare this occupied company bankrupt. Because it doesn't make any sense. As a state, we can claim ownership of this company with 115 million debts on taxes alone. In addition, we are writing down the additional debt that was incurred as a result of her economic activity and the loans that Janukovich was taking on the company’s activities. So I'm convinced that until we get those answers, it's impossible to vote for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u61	From Petar Dustenka's Block, Sugonako Alexander Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin. Sergey Kaplin, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u63	The reporter and author of this bill, the lobbyist of this bill, may have been lost in time. This is not the seventh call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And here, in this way, and with this content, the documents will definitely not go through. Yet I wish, and thank God, that this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will never vote for such nonsense. But I want to open my eyes to ordinary Ukrainians, what's really going on. This company is headed by such a company as Mrs. Neznowa Svetlana Volodymyryn, who has been the favorite Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk since 2003, who has been opposing, skipping, and moving this lady in all state offices. This company is part of a range of interests, including Arsenius Petrovich. And today they're trying to provide a legislative way to write off debts for this company. I have another question for Arsenius Petrovich. Please tell me, when you stop breaking through the knees of the governor of Poltava district of Glaucoma Valerius, who you have placed in this position, did you, in fact, force the Ukrainian authorities to take this position? Ask him to give eight valuable genealogies at a district council meeting in the Poltav region of Agroinvest, which is recorded as criminal authority and also as assistant to one of the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the nickname "Sasha-Braslet." Imagine the compass: Avakov, Arseny Petrovich, and Sasha Braslet. As many as 8 wells of oil and gas were wanted in my native Poltavska, accounting for a total of 4 percent of the territory of Poltava. We were able at a district council meeting to stop this disgraceful incredible armor, the so-called Dembel chord in the execution of the final composition, the criminal composition of the district council. Now they're trying to bypass auctions and competitions, bending the Ministry of Ecology, the relevant public services, even giving these genealogies to the criminal authority they control. I'd like to tell you, my dear masters. Suffocate with Poltava oil, absorb with Poltava gas! And one place we will tear you away if you enter my native land of Poltan and take away from the common people what the Lord God has given them! The time will come, and you will all be in prison! And we're going to be carrying your draft laws so you can read for good what you're trying to rob my common people, my nation, my state, my Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u64	Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the substance of the bill, because young Lenin's speeches are not about to start anyone. We're going to talk about the substance of the matter here, not to talk to the rallyers here. Most importantly, Mr. Sobolev, you pointed out that all the property remained in Crimea. So we can say that two of Atrek's and Titan-2's are in the Gulf of Mexico, and we have to take them somehow, and we have to get them back to the state of Ukraine. And by running this company into bankruptcy, to whom do we do a great service, who will be represented in court? Do we want to give them away so that they can remain metal scraps? Therefore, I am confident that this bill can be voted on as a basis, and I urge all deputies to support it and then to consider the cancellation of their tax obligations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u66	Thank you. Now, according to the Rules, speeches by national deputies are set at 15 minutes. And I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs, please. The Andriy Alexanderovich River People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u67	We support the bill, and the People's Front will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u68	Thank you. Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to Sergei Sobolev. You have always been viewed as a man who logically rebuilds schemes and defends Ukraine’s interests. I want to remind you that the balance sheet value of BlackMornaftegass is 12 billion dollars (in course 8) or one and a half billion dollars. The 115 million that have been formed is the debt to the salary budget since the annexation of the territory. After the bankruptcy, which is what we want to stop at BlackMornaftegass, this allows us to take these assets that are nationalized in Crimea. If you think otherwise, who's going to be responsible for this one-and-a-half billion dollars? In addition, BlackMornaftegaz pays no interest either on loans or on commitments made on Boyk's heights. And if self-help was asked, and what about Boyka's heights, then bankruptcy would answer that question: they just won't. So let's save these one-and-a-half billion and the assets that were made over the years for tens of years. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u70	Thank you. Onufric Bogdan Seminovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u71	Thank you. The faction will support this bill because it solves an important segment in the energy field, and that's why we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u72	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Passing it to Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, there's no question that property that can be controlled by Ukraine, property of the DAK "BlackMornaftegas" should normally be taken away. But that doesn't necessarily mean that we have to create some kind of fairy-tale company in Ukraine, call them BlackMornaftogaz, and make it look like nothing's going on. In fact, we clearly understand that BlackMornaftogaz is being robbed by an aggressor country and under the control of an aggressor country. There's no problem in handing those two tankers that colleagues were talking about to NAC's Naphtogas of Ukraine and not pretending that we have some other Black Mornaphtogas. So the question is very simple. Russia must return to Ukraine the funds it illegally received as a result of the illegal occupation of Crimea, and not only the capture of Black Mornaphtegasus, but also everything else. And then it's absolutely logical to write off any debt, essentially the controlled Russia of Black Mornaftegas, and write-off is done by the Ukrainian Parliament. Please explain to me the logic of this absurd situation. It doesn't make any sense. It can't be in principle. Once again, let's not mislead ourselves. The BlackMornaftegaz company, which is now in the territory of the illegally occupied Crimea, which pays taxes to the Russian budget, has to pay all the debts it has before the Ukrainian budget. The Russian Federation, as a state, must compensate for what they took illegally and what was on the balance sheet of Black Mornaphtegas. But for this to happen, the Ukrainian State in the Ministry of Justice has to make appropriate appeals to the relevant judges, not tell them that it is necessary to write off the debt essentially to the aggressor State in front of the Ukrainian State. Therefore, this cannot be supported either in the first reading or in the first reading or in any other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote now, I ask all the deputies to enter the workplace, prepare to vote on the bill under discussion. I'd like to see the reporter. Is there a need for a closing word? Mikola Volodymyrovich, is there a need for a closing word? Final word, is there a need? Please turn on the microphone of Martinenko Mikoli Volodymirovich. At that time, I invite everyone into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u75	Thank you very much. What I've seen is mostly factions supporting the bill, it's a big thank you for that. But looking at how we voted on previous bills, we asked to put the motion to a vote so that we could see the vote and leave the bill accordingly if there were not enough votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u76	Thank you. At the suggestion of the committee head, I will. So first, I'm going to put a signal vote on this bill. If we need a number of votes, we're going to go to the vote, if we don't, we're going to go to the next bill, and this is going to go to the chapter "before discussed." I'm asking you to prepare the people's deputies for the vote. Ready: MPs, factions? I'm voting on the draft Act on the measures of economic stability of the State Stock Exchange Society BlackMornaftogaz (number 2060a) for the vote, for the vote. Please vote 2060a, we vote. [[17:17:38]] For a hundred and Thank you. Unfortunately, no number of votes are needed to make a decision. That is why, according to the Rules, I am moving to the next law of the day, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Natural Gas Market (number 2312a). And there's a proposal for this bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I would like to concentrate on the motion to vote on the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please. [[17:18:29]] For a hundred and Please, I'll put it to the vote again. I ask those who have failed to come to the hall to prepare for the vote. If there are no 150 votes, he will reconsider the full procedure. I'm going to ask for your attention, and I'm going into the hall, and I'm going to get ready for the vote. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the motion for a brief motion for bill 2312a, and I'm asking you to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Please. [[17:19:20]] For-138 The decision is not taken. And I'm starting to consider the whole procedure. And I invite the Vice-President of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u77	Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor, you have a bill to consider. The draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Market in Natural Gas, which deals with the characteristics of the conduct of agricultural activity in the natural gas market during a transitional period. The need for its development and adoption is due to the date of entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of commercial activities on 28 June 2015, according to which all valid licences for the supply of natural gas at an unregulated rate are no longer valid. At the same time, on October 1, 2015, the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which does not contain the concept of a regulated, unregulated tariff on gas as a commodity, was in force. Thus, according to this law, all activities for the supply of natural gas are licensed. If the supplier has a licence to supply only natural gas at a regulated rate on 28 June 2015, it will continue to supply natural gas and will be given five months to bring its activities into line with the Law on the Market in Gas. If the supplier had a licence to supply natural gas only at an unregulated rate until 28 June 2015, it had ceased to operate and became invalid since 28 June 2015. As of October 1, this year, such a supplier has had to stop or a fine or other sanction will be imposed on him by NCRE KP. This regulation. This situation may lead to a violation of the rights of conscientious operators who carry out activities in the supply of natural gas at an unregulated rate, since it is not their fault that legislation is changing. I'm informing you there are about 300 of these companies today. The bill is intended to protect the rights of such companies, so it is important that, from the date of validity of this law that we are considering, and until the end of the three-month period, the licensing conditions for natural gas activities, as provided for in the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, were valid. If we don't accept this bill, there's actually been a legal conflict in the supply of natural gas since 1 October 2015. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the first reading of the bill be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. At its meeting on 15 July 2015, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a first reading review of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill today, because its importance has been explained to me earlier. In fact, it's about the fact that we already have certain colossals on the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u78	Thank you. Please sign up for the interview. Please sign up. I certainly do not question the will of the deputies, but why demand a full procedure if there are no questions for the rapporteur? Please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u79	On the board you can see who cares the most about municipal tariffs, the country’s gas market, its order, and the interests of the state. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Head, to finally finish this gas circus today. Unfortunately, there are no more deputies, not us, but you voted in favour of a new calendar plan for everyone to rest on. Our political power is also going to the elections, "The Party of the Simple People," the most dynamic political force in its ratings. I'd be happy to go to the county too, support my colleagues. But I was ready to work here early in the morning with my colleague Sugonjak until late in the evening. Because Ukrainians want to see you here at least, they don't see you in the districts, they don't see you in the Council, they don't see you on TV. Then why are you spending that money that we were able to use to protect the military, to protect social politics, in the end, to protect our nation's national interests. Please close the meetings and go rest. I understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u80	Thank you for the thorough question. Thank you. There was a lively and interesting discussion. Let's move on to the next question, this is a report from the Main Committee. The talker is missing on this question, so we're moving on to the factions of three minutes. I'm asking my fellow MPs to sign up for the factions. I hope it's a lively discussion. There is a speaker, there is. Please, Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, this law, which is now being proposed to us to vote, duplicates a rule that we have not passed several laws in the previous one when we wanted to amend the legislation on the gas market. So this is the second attempt to get an unnecessary license that I've been making. So I think that this corrupt norm should not be fixed today in our Parliament, but this law has not been breached by our Rules of Procedure on the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, which is very sensitive to any issue of licensing. So the attempt to extend this license is, well, it's already just going beyond smart. I suggest we don't vote for this. This issue is being considered in the order of another law that we have not adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u82	Thank you. The factions and groups ended. Let us move on to the next chapter, the speeches of the national deputies. It takes 15 minutes. If you'd like to sign up for a statement from the National MPs, please. Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u83	Good afternoon, honourable deputies, distinguished voters. I'd like to say a trailer based on the performance of the previous speaker from the "Party of the Simple People." A group of simple national MPs, all in place, a party of the Dust Blocks, ready to vote. So don't worry, look at the future with optimism, everything will be fine. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u84	Thank you. Musak Aleksei Petrovich is invited to attend. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, Peter Prashenko's Block is ready to work on this and other drafts. That's why I want to pass on the word of a gas specialist to Mrs. Belkova Oli.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Musak. I'd like to see my colleagues from the Radical Party. In fact, I find it very strange to hear accusations that there are seemingly corrupt standards. This bill has actually been submitted twice, and it's actually been discussed twice in a profile committee. My colleague, Mr. Chizmar, had the opportunity to offer an idea that would otherwise regulate this legal conflict. How could we not talk here today about there being some reason to talk about corruption, please show me how to resolve those issues and gaps that already exist between the two laws? If there is reason to believe that we have exceeded certain standards or the Constitution, or anything else, please suggest your rights between the first and the second readings. But I insist that today a number of companies are out of licenses. And they're actually outside the legal field in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u87	Thank you. According to the Rules, I have to give a reply to the deputy mentioned. Please Chizmar, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u88	I want to answer Mrs. Ollie's question that there is a licensing procedure for today. And it's stipulated under the License Act. And it falls within the purview of the Cabinet of Ministers. So over this period, if this is a very necessary norm, I think that the Cabinet of Ministers could have taken appropriate decisions or appropriate standards of documents. And since you and I are on the committee when we were looking at this bill, everyone agreed that it was unscrupulous. And you don't have to break the system. And the Cabinet of Ministers for this period from June to October of the month.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u89	Thank you. From the faction of the political party "Block of Petra Prashenko" has the word Kaplin. From Peter Prashenko's Block of Political Party, this is Kaplin speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u90	I would like to draw the attention of the Chief, as well as other national deputies, to the factions' leaders of the great problem that we have with the discipline of attending the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the overall effectiveness of the order and content of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. I think we have to make a decision about the moratorium on any changes to the calendar plan that we make at the beginning of the year. Just like a simple peasant, a simple worker, a simple entrepreneur, a doctor, a teacher can't change his work schedule, and a servant of the people -- a Ukrainian national deputy -- has no right in some way depending on whether there is a pre-election campaign or not, he has some personal business, he has a birthday in his mother-in-law or a woman, or he has a sun on some of the coasts of Europe or other parts of the world, he has no right to change his thin, clear schedule of work. Because today ordinary Ukrainians pay their last taxes in support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, "The Party of the Simple People" prepared its edition of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for a reduction in the number of national MPs from 450 to 100. There is a reduction in the number of government members from 22 to 5-7 as seen in other countries of the world, where there is an appropriate level of GDP and population. This is what ordinary Ukrainian citizens expect from the Constitution. They want to let go of this smudge, these belts that you've pulled, the authorities on ordinary Ukrainians, make them actually leave their pension in pharmacies, make them live essentially in the second hand for several years in a row, make them fight exclusively, fight for the country, while the children of the national deputies may be seated in their offices in their own chairs. Our political power, "The Party of the Simple People," urges you to bring order to the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. Ukrainians have the right, and deputies are obliged to be here to work here. And I remind you that in the last summons, I have developed and registered changes to the Constitution that are intended to invalidate the mandate of the National MP for five walks without a valid reason. And I demand, on behalf of my political power, to return to the consideration of this change to the Constitution. That's why Parliament, I'm sure, votes unanimously. Without order of work in the legislative branch of power, we are unlikely to regain confidence in Parliament by ordinary Ukrainians. And then there will be no reform. And various bandits and corrupters will occupy the seats of prime ministers and ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u91	Thank you. By using the Rules, I note that statements should be in line with the question under consideration. Party advertising and party videos are likely to be played on a separate commercial fee on central television channels rather than using the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. Here's to Belkova Olga Valentinovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u92	Turning to the question of the natural gas market, I remind you that the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of activities of agriculture, namely, article 7, defines the list of activities that are subject to licensing. Item 27. "Transport and distribution of natural gas, methane gas, coal deposits, its storage in quantities exceeding the level set by licensing conditions and supply, except for natural gas, methane gas, unregulated carbon deposits." At the same time, the Natural Gas Market Act does not contain such terms as "regulated", "unregulated tariff" for gas as for goods. How can we determine who is acting out of order? Formally, no one will follow because there will be no concept of tariff regulation for supplies. The licensing of all supply activities has been agreed upon with our partners, the Energy Community Secretariat. We've accepted this as a rule of law and we have to regulate the Colosseum. The position of the secretariat is that in today's state of the market, which is only now in the embryonic situation, the emergence of companies without licenses will lead to chaos, there will be "grandmother companies." That is why it was decided that the supply would be licensed. Therefore, either in one law or in another, changes should be made. The authors of this bill propose to amend the Licensing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u93	Thank you. Please, Pober Igor Mikolayovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u94	Please (without the right to advertise) pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u95	But I'm warning you, if it goes wrong with the law, I'm just going to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u96	Dear Sir, you know, you've done a great deal for Ukrainian society, sitting in front of order and fighting in Maidan. And I'm very sorry that you're taking the word of political power today, a young man who's trying to protect the common people. The only political power where there are no, by the way, regionals, among all political forces. I want to tell you that the position of our party, my own, on natural gas and the regulation of the gas market in general, is contained in one of the bills that I registered in the last call. It's called "The Nationalization of Gas Fertility." I am convinced that by expropriating and nationalizing gas deposits, we will return with you all that the Lord God has given to the Ukrainians, to the property of the state. And I, by the way, in the middle of our meeting today, told Deputy Minister Didenko and he wouldn't let us lie, he confirmed that it was really the only way in order in the gas market. And I'm very glad that in the end, in the government, they're beginning to listen to the position of our political power. I think that later, after a while, we will be in the Ukrainian Parliament, we will be here most of us, and we will be worthy of defending the rights of ordinary Ukrainians. As far as the possibilities are concerned, I understand this is the last of my speeches, during this session or, more specifically, before the election, I would like to say the following. You know, today there's not enough changes and laws that we've adopted in today's session. We have initiated a nationwide movement from various parts of Ukraine against the Jacinyuk tariffs, and we will take home his payments. And we've already done the right things in seven regions of Ukraine, people are unanimously supporting and I'm asking you to join ordinary citizens to fight for your rights. We will prove to the Chinese, we will prove to the representatives of other regions that the Ukrainian people can mobilize and protect their right to objective, real prices of municipal tariffs. The Chinese can just go through a few stops, 100 to 200,000 people near parliament, and they're making a huge change in the situation in Ukraine. We'll walk 400, 600, 800 kilometers with the common people to get justice. And those who smile here will answer to the common people, to the Lord God. And I'd like to address the People's Front factions. You've got ten government robberies, and ordinary people are putting candles on you for the rest of the churches, just so you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since my last name has been mentioned, thank you for assessing my activities, I will also take the line. And I want to ask you right in the hall, and why do we work many, many hours during the non-sessional week to form an order of the day, if then there are no votes in the room to just vote them out? Why do we vote in favour of full procedure if there is nothing to say about the bill, if there is not even a desire to have a discussion and a political position is formed? And I also have a question in the hall, if we're going to be here to adopt legislation, not to engage in party propaganda and advocacy, we have to have a professional discussion on every bill. I obviously don't want to give the MPs any notice as to how to act. But I've taken and stopped the word for the opposition block representatives over and over again when they were speaking out of the question. And I think that this rule of law should be the same for everyone, we should have a professional discussion and adopt quality laws. Thank you. Welcome to Timoshenko Yuri, the People's Front, and prepare for Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u98	Friends, dirty, baseless accusations, insinuations about the highest leadership in the state, with hints of having some favorites there, almost lovers, deserve at least a good slap right in this room. One thing is the conviction that this is said by a person who is mentally ill and not adequate. I ask all MPs to discuss the possibility of drafting a law that requires every MP to undergo psychiatric expertise. I'm very afraid if some mentally ill assholes hadn't gone from screaming to throwing themselves and biting their opponents. Please, let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u99	Kugel, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u100	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I want to speak to Mrs. Belkova. You have repeatedly stressed that if this bill is not adopted, there will be no licensing of those operators who need it. So I have an extract from the last cabinet meeting of the Ministers, where we were asked by our committee to implement the Licensing Act. I read: "Leaders: Minfina, Nazcomfinservices, State Inspectorate, MOH and NCRE KP. I'm sorry we didn't pass any license terms." 60 licensing conditions to be applied for the implementation of this law are 11, of which 5 are returned. Therefore, the existing NCRE KP bill is not implemented. And what you're talking about today is that the non-admission of this bill will not give you a license. I'm pointing out to both the President and the Prime Minister that you're the positive bill that you've shown to all foreigners, as we've cut 37 licenses, you've ignored. And today, without licensing, you're leading business to poverty. So send this bill to our committee, we'll work it out, we'll make some changes together to licenses. And the license law, if that's what it takes. This bill will not be supported by the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u101	Thank you. The speeches by the national deputies were concluded. Now I give the floor to Minister Demchikin and then the final word to the reporter. Turn on Demchachin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment briefly on this situation, in fact, without voting on such laws, first of all, we allow those who are used to judging, who are used to settling matters in court, to be able to stop normal decisions. The Law on the Gas Market has already been in force since October 1st, and it has entered into force. So nothing changes. The only difference is that there will be contradictions between the Law on the Market in Gas and other old laws. And those who do not want to obey the new law will have the opportunity to be judged. And I think it is. You've already made a decision in March that new law. a new gas market. That's why you're being illogical right now, Your Honor. With regard to this 2312, I want to remind you that there is not only a question of licensing but of licensing. The Licensing Act is not yet adopted, so if you can adopt your law, of course these changes may be unpracticeful or may be included in yours. But at the moment, since the Law on the Gas Market is in force, it is necessary to make changes and close the contradictions that are at present. The fewer there will be, the fewer there will be, the more orderly the Law on the Gas Market will be, the clearer the conditions will be, the clearer the pricing will be. We understand that additional courts always have a negative impact on the relationship with the supplier, between the supplier and the consumer. We want to protect the interests of the final consumer, that's the basic essence of this law, and we want to fight the monopolies. So I very much ask you to review the attitude towards amending existing laws in accordance with the law that has already been voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u103	Thank you. For the closing statement, the deputy head of the Committee of Belkova Olga Valentinovna is invited. Please turn on the microphone from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, once again returning to the main problem of this bill, the problem that exists today is whether we want it or not, but there is a legal conflict. Like Mrs. Alexander, I advocate that there be clear, clear licensing conditions in the natural gas market. And if the NCRE KP is going to approve them, then I'm ready to offer my help to Mrs. Alexandria, we're going to unite and insist that this is done as soon as possible. At the same time, I hope that Mrs. Alexander will agree with me that if we compare Article 7 of the Licensing Act and Article 1 of the Natural Gas Market Act, and both laws are recognized by all our international partners as progressive, reformist, there is a certain coalition. And we have to reconcile it. Otherwise, there will be a so - called manual government — who took more, the license. Do you understand? Today, there is this right-wing coalition. And companies are already talking, 300 of them, you know? So, Mrs. Alexander, I am convinced that if we accept the first reading, we will work together to avoid undermining the logic of the progressive Licensing Act and, at the same time, to implement those standards from the Third Energy Package that we have already approved as a Parliament. We can't take a step forward and two steps back. That's what surprises our partners, and in fact we're not clear both for the market, for our suppliers and for our counterparties. I look forward to your understanding and legal approach to this problem. We have to settle the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to the last point, this is making a decision. I ask the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, just as I did with the previous bill, I'm going to put up a signal vote first. If we see that we are enough to make decisions, we will vote. If we don't, let's move it to the chapter of the bills that were discussed earlier. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your place and prepare for the vote. Caplin urged everyone to work. Oh, he's probably calling everyone from the towers. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's driving everyone away. Dear colleagues, are you ready? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to bring them into line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act (number 2312a). Please hold a signal vote. Please vote. [[17:49:17]] For-182 182 for. The signal vote demonstrated that the potential in the room was low. Therefore, the question of voting is passed on to the next day. Dear colleagues, we have been approached by two MP factions demanding a recess. It's from the faction of Self-Help, the Beresuk, from the Radical Party of Laška, but they're ready to replace the rule break. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the show. And I'm asking the P.O. of the Shepherd to do the speech. And the letter says, "Please provide a video-scene escort on the board for 1 minute 34 seconds in the Plenary Hall during the announcement of the recess, during the performance of the People's MP." We usually end up having a video set, but we're still asking you to run the video. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u106	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. I think the video you're going to see, I think you'll appreciate it. And so maybe the quality of sound isn't going to be the best, maybe we should use our headphones. But I've literally said a few words before. Literally six months ago, I met with several national deputies young enough, who for the first time in the Supreme Council, we met with the Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Habakkuk. And on the question of the Ministry's activity, you asked where criminal cases involving bribes, by corruption. He answered and showed us some really impressive statistics on how many such cases were transferred to the Attorney General's Office and, unfortunately, they still did not get their logical decision. I asked the judges, when they were talking to them, more faithfully asked why the Supreme Council wanted to reassign all the judges today. A similar question is, "Boys, where are your decisions on bribes, on corruption?" And they say, "Have you seen the materials that the Attorney General is giving us? These materials need to be justified in fact. " And I thought these were the reservations between the offices, until there was an event in Ternopolis. I want you and our entire society to see things that have lasted about six months, and to give an assessment. Permission granted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u107	Can we technically turn on the video, please, Apparatus? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u108	This is the premises of the city council of Ternopol. The people running around are the Ministry of Internal Affairs operatives. There is the arrest of an urban head, suspected of being in a bribe of 217 thousand. [[Video recording broadcast]] He is under arrest, and the decision is made. What do you mean, confiscation? He was held while receiving the second part of the bribe. The first part of the bribe, it turns out, was still preserved. The attorney general's office with the defendant made a contract in which she said, "Buddy, give me the first part of the bribe. We're giving you 25,000 fines, and regret it." He sincerely repented, saying that he would no longer be. Clearly, the court approved the agreement. So, dear friends, if we continue to fight bribery, if the Attorney General's Office continues to act that way or not, I think it's the highest cynicism in us, like today's power that came after Maidan. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind everyone that we don't have the Attorney General's Office today. Confirm with your signatures, because today you need to reload this body. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-06-m1.u109	Thank you. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, we cannot continue our fruitful, productive work because the time for our work is running out. And that's why I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. And I strongly urge all the deputies at 10 a.m. to gather to work in the hall so that we can decide tomorrow's agenda. Thank you. Good-bye.
