ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please, take your seats. We can start our work, dear colleagues. Please. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:02:38]] 258 national deputies registered for the moment. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before we begin our work, I would like to welcome our colleague on his birthday, Victor Ivanovich Vuka. Happy birthday, buddy! [[Applause]] Best wishes, success, and well - being. Dear colleagues! We're on Wednesday. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies. In this regard, I ask the national deputies to prepare for the recording. Please prepare to record the performance. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the address. Sign up for the show. Let's register. Let's register. Please, Yuri Bereza, Mikola Princely People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, where is the needle from our oligarchy? This in a court of law in Vienna was honestly said by the oligarch Firtash, which is found in the oligarchic canals. You know perfectly well that Firtash admitted in court that he was helping Yanukovich completely contrary to the law through the "Inter" channel that he said belonged to him. What's not proved to anyone? What's going to happen tomorrow? Tomorrow, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio is planning to continue the license of the Inter Channel for the next 10 years. This is happening contrary to current legislation for several reasons. The first reason, the 24-hour Inter, was to get a license for 20 hours, four hours, and no one has ever announced a contest. The founders of the Inter Channel are foreign legal persons. The master code clearly states that any person is 100 percent founded by a foreign legal person and is also considered foreign. All the founders of the Inter Channel are foreign legal entities. The law prohibits the licensing of foreign television organizations. The law prohibits the licensing of companies established by state and foreign legal persons. The Inter Channel was founded by the Holden Foundation and the Russian ORT channel. Therefore, the license of the Inter Channel is strictly forbidden. Moreover, this 20 percent of the holding fund was stolen by the Internet management and illegally allocated and added. And now, at this cost, the Ukrainian people are actually being fooled. Dear People's Deputies, the People's Front faction demands that we immediately stop this mess, we will not allow this language to continue with unknown founders and roots in the aggressor country. We demand an honest and open competition for these frequencies in order to have a speech or a channel called Culture, or that foreign objective investors from around the world, or that Ukrainians get this license. We're not going to let any more of us cheat tomorrow's "C" point and we're not going to let the National Council give the lnter again to fool our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kodol, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u4	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! As a national MP, I am very often approached by members of the military and their families to obtain a certificate from a member of the military who participated in an anti-terrorist operation. Without proper certification, military personnel, including those who have suffered serious injuries, cannot properly benefit from proper benefits and receive appropriate treatment. I have repeatedly sent my MPs and requests to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Presidential Administration, for such cases. The last time I was approached by a resident of Nizhina, a military officer of the 1st Tank Brigade, who served in the area of Anti-Terrorism Operations from June 16th to the end of August 2014. In November 2014, all the necessary documents were submitted by the applicant to the military for the certification of the participant in the hostilities. Only on March 2, this year, the relevant documents were submitted to the Ministry of Defence, but there is still no answer as to when a member of the fighting party's certificate will be issued to him, and this is because the Council of the Ministry of Defence decided on April 10, 2015. And so many, many more, but many more, when people do not even seek help from MPs or volunteers, they simply have to wait for months, sometimes losing funds and health when they finally command military units to do their job and people will be able to gain the status and certification of a fighter. I stress that our task is to do everything possible to ensure that the military, who are now risking their lives by curbing the enemy's aggression in the East of Ukraine, know that they are doing their utmost to ensure that their rights are respected. That's why I'm again addressing Ukrainian Defence Minister Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich to ensure that the participants in the anti-terrorist operation in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas get their war card at the right time. Such a step will certainly increase confidence in the service of the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u5	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! I want to remind you that on January 14, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the law of a deputy from the faction of the Radical Party, Yuri Suhevich, which allowed for the continuation until January 1, 2022 of the position on the right to retirement after reaching the 55-year-old age of women who are out of work and have at least 30 years of insurance. On January 31, 2015, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, vetoed the law and returned it to the Supreme Council. In accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules, the bill returned with the President's remarks should be considered within a month. However, three months have passed and there is still no law in Parliament that allows women to retire at the age of 55. The Radical Party faction, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian women, requires a bill to be passed to Parliament, a bill to overcome the President's veto, and to allow our distinguished heroic workers, who have reached the age of 55, to retire if they have 30 years of service. We promised this in the elections when we came to Parliament, we fulfilled our promise, we passed this law. I'm asking you, as Head of the Supreme Council, not to interfere with the possibility of protecting the rights of working Ukrainian women and protecting them here by bringing this law to the Supreme Council Hall. We also insist on putting our bill into the Parliamentary Hall, which repeals the dragon rule on retirement benefits of 15 percent of the pension. Today, we see a substantial overhaul in the income of the state budget, so we think it's time to eliminate this draconian rule and return to the working pensioners their full pension that they've earned. Stop making money on pensioners, robbing or robbing, returning property stolen by oligarchs, and let those who receive incomes, not our pensioners, pay enough. Similarly, we insist on the need for wage indexation and pensions to raise them to inflation. We believe that this rule should be adopted, so we have agreed with the government since June 1, 2015. I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to protect the rights of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u7	National MP Martinjak Sergey Vasilovich, "Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u9	Igor Jeremeyev, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u10	Ukrainian people! Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We hear of coalitions fighting corruption, deligarchization and labeling, criticizing. And under these slogans, we hear very often good drafts. One such bill to combat the shadow economy is probably a law that provides for the disclosure of information about the final beneficiaries. A few months ago, such a law was passed by the Supreme Council. But the pear took place, and there was no action. In fact, on May 25, all businesses in Ukraine should provide information about their final owners. And the form number 4 developed by the Ministry of Justice was given only for a few weeks. It consists of dozens of different sheets to fill. And an ordinary entrepreneur can't fill out these sheets, so it's a matter of hiring lawyers. And today, Ukraine has turned into hundreds of meters of queues where entrepreneurs are in the registration service, the State Registration Service, asking for help in registering the document. Immediately there were "decisions" that 500 dollars could file with the State Registration Service and solve these problems for entrepreneurs. Our faction registered Law 2892, which proposes to move from May 25 to January 1, 2015. And allow entrepreneurs to solve this problem. Because if this document is not filed on May 25, each entrepreneur will pay 8,000 dollars a fine. They called the law a fight against oligarchs, resulting in the suffering of all simple entrepreneurs who simply cannot fill out the document. Our faction demands that the bill be immediately incorporated into the agenda, accepted as a basis, by May 25 as a whole, thus solving the problem of thousands of Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u11	Please, the next Sergey Dunaev, the Oblast.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Husak Vladimir Georgiyovich, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u13	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Dear Head! In economic terms, Ukraine returned 20 years ago. In the first quarter of 2015, gross domestic product dropped 14 percent compared to the first quarter of 2014. We are told that last year there was no war, and that is what this decline in production is all about. But GDP fell by seven percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2014, when the situation in the East was about the same as it is now, and this is already. He fell seven percent. It's a lot, and it's the result of the inefficient activity of the current government. In March 2015, monthly inflation, rising consumer prices, or higher prices for humans, accounted for 11 percent. The last time the monthly inflation was more than 10 percent, 20 years ago, in 1995. But no one's going to stop at that. And in April, monthly inflation was now 14 percent. But. And that's not the end when in February the tariffs for rail transport were raised by 30 percent, we warned that two or three would be an appropriate price rise for people. That's what happened. But there's still no appointment for the Director-General of the Railroads, and it's been running out of directors for eight months, and there's been another discussion about a huge increase in tariffs for rail transport. It's going to be a new inflationary outflow. Along with the inflation to Ukraine, there was a huge debt on the payroll. Over the last year, this debt has tripled, now it's 1 billion 600 million dollars, and it's increasing all the time. Returning to the general picture, esteemed colleagues, even in this year’s budget, had 27 percent of annual consumption inflation planned. In four months we already have 37 percent, 33 percent is an increase in food prices and we live by social standards in December 2013. Frankly, it's some kind of bullying. Yesterday we immediately passed the Ukraine Default Act, and even the lunch break was cut short. At the same time, the drafts of the Opposition Block, aimed at raising social standards, remain pending for a long time. We need to consider these immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u14	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u15	And raise social standards, and make real wage and pension indexes to at least match inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u16	Please, National Deputy Wozniak Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u17	Give me your word, Ass Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u18	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, People's Front, 19th Mining District. Dear friends, it happened that I was in the district of Volina, where I remained, thank God, a few more mines that work. Thanks to Parliament, the government, during the budget review, we added 200 million dollars to the construction of the only mine that is now being built in Ukraine, the 10th mine. And during this time, during these months, winter and spring, the neo-voluntary miners in order to pay their wages forced or frozen, or not frozen, to cover the road. Literally 10 days ago, two weeks ago, neo-voluntary miners who were building the only mine in Ukraine -- 10th -- were forced to cover the road. Why? Because unfortunately, today's title letter for the 10th Mine is not signed. Unfortunately, Mrs. Jaresko and Mr. Demchikin did not start the funding system for the tenth mine. I very much ask Minister Jaresko, Minister Demchikin very quickly, literally today-to-morrow, because once again the neo-voluntary miners will be covering the road for us on Volina, starting funding for the tenth mine. It's not that they're demanding 200 million dollars right now. The point is, sign the title letter, give us a few tens of millions to run. Today we have half the mines in the terrorist zone in Donetsk and Lugansk. We're preparing for the winter, we're preparing for the winter in May. This year, therefore, it is vital that we give the first coal from the tenth coal mine in Novovolinsk. So I, as a coal miner's deputy, on behalf of local self-governance, on behalf of the members of the People's Front, ask not to prove to the extreme that I will have to do again, to the mayors of Novovolinsk and other cities, to go out and watch, to lend eyes to Sirca, and to tell them what they will soon sign in the government. So, dear friends, I ask you again, Mrs. Jaresko, Mr. Demchikin, who, if you take this one more time, will you please write your application and resign? Bring the matter to a close, sign the title letter on the tenth mine of Novovolinska, give the miners the first money so that they do not strike, but prepare the first coal from the tenth mine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u19	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Linc. He's giving the word to the national deputy of Halasyuk. Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Today, economic times are so complex that we do not have the right to make major economic mistakes. But let's see what we have today. GDP, the size of Ukraine's economy, declined by more than 17 percent in the first quarter compared to last quarter last year. At this time, the Ministry of Economics and the Minister of Economic Affairs is deregulation. Does this make the situation better? If, as early as 2013, the profits of large, medium-sized enterprises that form most of the country's GDP amounted to 40 billion dollars, we already have 400 billion dollars in losses in 2014. What is the Ministry of Economics doing at this time? Extensive privatization and an attempt to start the sale of agricultural land in Ukraine. At a time when these assets cost at least. Instead of correcting the industrial situation, instead of creating jobs, they think about how to sell those assets at no cost. Commodity exports declined from $62 billion per year to $53 billion. We lost $9 billion in trade balance. And then we're wondering why we have this class of bracelets unstable. What is the Ministry of Economics doing at this time? He believes that the main reform is the reduction of the Ministry of Economics. So let me tell you what this leads to. Today, there are 17 ministries and 50 central authorities that employ thousands of workers. Do you know how many of these people are doing industry, economics and exports? 2 departments are in industry, 1 department is in export. There are fewer than 30 people working there. Fewer than 30 people in the country care professionally about industrial development and export incentives. Those issues that depend not only on the future but on the present. So we urge the Radical Party faction to change economic priorities to create jobs, to scale up economic growth, to protect a domestic producer. I want to say that we are pleased that the government has finally heard us about the restructuring of government debt. Because Oleg Lášk and I, from the first day of the coalition talks, demanded the restructuring of government debt, the freezing of payment of interest before the cessation of military aggression against Ukraine, and partial defiance. As was the case with Poland in 1991. Then we were told, "You're crazy, but it's political suicide, but it'll never be." And we're saying, "We need to take off this concoction of financial debt from Ukraine and direct these funds not to eat, not to steal, not to block budget holes, but to direct them to the vast development of the Ukrainian industry. To create new jobs. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u21	Please finish. Finish it, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u22	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u23	This will give taxes to a country where we will live, not as beggars, but as a worthy partner in a European family, not as beggars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u24	Paul Ungurian, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, May 19, U.S. Minister of Finance, Mr. Jacob Leigh, made a very important statement for Ukraine. I quote, "Those who own government debt bonds in Ukraine need to make sacrifices in discussions with the Cabinet of Ministers on the restructuring of Ukraine's external debt." I would like to remind all voters that the International Monetary Fund Cooperation Programme has foreseen the need to address the immediate payment situation of $15 billion for external debt. Unfortunately, most of these debts have arisen in the last literally five to six years. And we have a case today when Ukraine is at the same time at war, Ukraine has to undergo a very, very complex process of European integration and adaptation of all Ukrainian legislation to European standards, norms and directives. Ukraine must undergo a very painful but vital process of fighting corruption, picking up and raising a new management elite. And all of this is happening in an environment of external aggression. Of course, the question of external debt at this point is extremely painful. And yesterday, the Prime Minister pointed out that we have no right at this time to go from the state budget to actually pay off the debt again under the IMF Cooperation Programme. That's why we voted with you yesterday for two bills that give the government the opportunity to maneuver, which allow the government to have a discussion with creditors. And we are very grateful to both the United States, and personally to the finance minister, Mr. Jacob Leigh, for the position that the pool of private creditors should go to certain sacrifices to help Ukraine at this difficult time. Of course, he said, that doesn't mean that it should only be at the expense of creditors, but it would be important to find a model, a model of restructuring that is mutually agreeable. So we are on the path of reform in this difficult time, we must go through with dignity and be blessed by the Lord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u27	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I think today the social situation in the country should be number one on the eve of Parliament, government and all authorities. I want to remind you that on December 28, last year, when we passed the Budget Act, we passed the unpopular Law on the Reduction of Payments and Other Standards, but we went to the government, realizing that the situation in the country was very difficult. One of the compromises that was for the Radical Party and we took, voted in favour of this unpopular law, was to have a complete indexation in line with the economic situation in the country as a result of the first half of the year. And I want to remind you, and this is evidenced by the Supreme Council's transcript that our proposal sounded exactly like the government was indexing. And that was agreed by the Prime Minister of the rostrum, and this was confirmed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, which will be indexed by the results of the first half of the year. What, then, do we see in the law? If you go to the bill, and on the basis of it, the bill adopted by Law 76-8 of December 28, 2014, paragraph 14 of the Final Regulations stipulates that the government does not index as a fact, but the government will only develop the order of wage indexation, pensions and other social benefits, this is a subversion of the concept, this is not what we agreed on, this is a falsification of a normative document that will never create confidence in this room and trust in the people in Parliament. I'd like to go to Vladimir Borisovich today, conduct a service investigation into the substitution of the normative document, not according to the transcript, and not according to the proposal made by the Radical faction, as a compromise question so that we can compensate people for the loss of their income at least after the first half of the year. I want to remind you that inflation is 114 percent in just four months this year. And the government said yesterday or yesterday, I'm sorry, at the presentation of the legislative reform plan, that the next index would only be December 1st. Again, it's not what we agreed on. So I demand today to review the transcript, review that normative document and make a decision, and yet from July 1st, the government has to conduct an indexation. We've been talking about this since January, and there can be no discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u28	National MP Laño Mihailo Ivanovich, "Will of the People". People's Deputy Laño, People's Will Group. Igor Mironovich. Dear colleagues! The national deputy of Evtushok. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u29	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! Today, it's not just a negative, socio-economic situation, it's catastrophic, and we feel it during our constant meetings with the voters. Today, according to official reports, inflation was 61 percent. And, of course, in this situation, Ukraine's legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should adopt the urgent bills necessary to remedy this situation. At the same time, it was absolutely strange and revealing when yesterday, under the insistence of the government faction, a bill was excluded from the premier faction, which was submitted by the faction of "Fatherhood" (No. 2698), which provides for the return of pensioners who are working, who are forced to work, to a full pension. To date, their pensions are taxed in a non-constitutional and non-legal way by 15 percent. We believe, and we are convinced that pensioners who have earned a pension in their lives should receive them in full volume as provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. So now that we're looking at the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of a number of bills, let's put in a bill that was deleted yesterday, 2698, let's restore justice to this particular issue. And to do that, it's going to take from the budget by the end of the year, actually, 191 million dollars is not the amount that's critical today, but it's the amount that every working pensioner needs that affects the well-being of specific families. Just as the "Fatherland" faction insists on the inclusion of more issues in the agenda, which in the same block is the draft (2703) on measures to upgrade food and non-food products and services to determine the subsistence minimum. The minimum of living today does not correspond to the state of things, they cannot afford to buy the necessities of food and goods at the expense of the cost of living. Similarly, we insist on the consideration of the bill (2704) regarding the provision of debt and wages. Just as we believe it is necessary to amend the Tax Code, this is bill 2682 on pension taxation. Let's get our friends in line on this issue, and this is a state-of-the-art approach -- that's what people are asking us to do today. And we have to be absolutely clear today in this difficult situation at least to see how Ukrainian families live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u30	Please, Oksana Jurinec. National Dove MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u31	The Honourable Chairman, your colleagues, would like to draw your attention as well as the attention of the Ukrainian society to the situation that has arisen around one of Ukraine's strategic enterprises, namely: "StrictSnafts." In particular with regard to the discussion of the current and deposit accounts of the Society opened in the Public Shareholder Company of the Commercial Bank of Privatbank. Yes, based on the 492 decree of the National Bank of Ukraine on the approval of instructions, on the procedure for opening, using and closing accounts in national and foreign currencies, Pat "Ukratransnafta" added on 8 May to the capital branch of KB "Privatbank" a set of documents that confirm changes in the company's leadership and a card with the signatures of PAT "Ukratransnaft" officials who have the right to the first and second signatures of the accounting documents. After checking the documents submitted, a member of KB's capital branch, Private Bank, identified the individuals, the officials of Pat's "Ukratransnaft" and accepted the documents without any notice. As of today, the model signatures of the Cruscaff management are still inactive. Instead, the capital branch of KB Privatbank creates artificial barriers to activate such cards. Similar actions by the bank since May 8 have made it impossible to do the calculations and have completely blocked the economic activity of the Crushersnafts. In addition, such actions have created additional real threats to the failure of the UK to recalculate the government budget of Ukraine's rent for oil transport in the amount of about 50 million dollars of the final payment deadline of which is today. As well as timely payouts for more than 4,000 people in the UK, who are in all regions of Ukraine. I also point out that the illegal activities of the bank's employees are made by artificial obstacles to the use of the PAT "Ukratsnaft" funds, which were temporarily placed in deposit accounts opened in the capital branch of KB "Privat Bank". In particular, after repeated information on the lack of intention to continue the operations of deposit contracts with the PAT KB "Private Bank" that have expired, as well as the instructions of Pat "Ukratransnafta" to recalculate the funds that have been placed in the respective deposit accounts for the current accounts of the company, the bank has not recovered these funds, and it is about the costs of around 155 million dollars. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, and the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u32	Dear fellow national MPs! The time for the performance is up, the time for the performance is up, let's move on to. We have a number of questions, honourable colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda, they are scheduled for consideration on May 20. In particular: 2578 draft decree, the author proposed that he be transferred and not considered today, 2536 on the Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for optimizing the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) of the People's Deputies of Mikli Tomenka, 2582 amendments to the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for educational subsidies), 2620 on mobilisation preparation and mobilisation, 2,860 amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the improvement of individual provisions on judicial matters. And what was happening at 28,96 is the transfer of the term. Is that what I'm saying? For business and this was heard from the rostrum today and made such an offer by Yuri Lucenko, 2896. I have an offer, my fellow national MPs, that we now include these draft laws in the agenda of the day session, except for 2578, including 2896. The author insists that Decree 2578 be incorporated into the agenda, 2578. There's no consensus on it, as far as I can tell. Please bet the vote on the inclusion of 2578 in the agenda. I'd like to make a statement. 2578. [[10:43:01]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we still have 2536, 2896, 2582, 2620, 2860. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Peter Prashenko faction proposes to vote on the rest of the bill with a package, but we support a colleague of Jeremeyev, who rightly points to the need for a decision as soon as possible to change the information on the end-beneficiaries. Today, business is unable to provide this information, and it is necessary to introduce the law (2896) into the order of the day. Along with (2896) the rest of the laws in the package, please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Once again, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session, colleagues, the draft Law (registration number 2536, 2896, 2582, 2620, 2860), to include in the agenda of the day, there are no warnings on these projects. That's why I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies to take their seats. Victoria Sumar, there are two other issues in cooperation with the IMF, please listen to the laws as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u35	Colleagues, we're ready to support the inclusion of the day-to-day question about the end-beneficiary, because it's really hot enough. But if we are already introducing drafts by vote, it is also imperative that our faction ask us now to put into order the two bills that we need to cooperate with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, 2873 and 2879. And then it's all a packet of these two, plus the end-beneficiary offered by the Peter Dustenka faction, we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u36	You know, colleagues, I think it would be absolutely fair not to include any draft law in a vote. So 2896 and those that are now in the agenda of the day session will be considered separately. You have the agenda that you're given, and that's what I'm stressing: 2536, 2582, 2620, 2860 -- these are the draft laws that are on the schedule. So please, and then I'll give you all my word. So please, draft laws that are included in the agenda, which are set out in the agenda, please vote and support what is planned. Please support this is what is planned, what you have in front of your eyes on the schedule. [[10:47:19]] For 211 Please don't make it? Get ready, please. Get ready, please. We are now voting only on what is on the schedule. Get ready, please. What was on the schedule. Please, one minute, Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u37	Your Honour, Mr. Head! We will now vote on this agenda. But the practice of putting vote into the order of the day's legislation should not be in Parliament. This is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u38	In fact, you continued what I said. So we're not voting a word. So please: 2536, 2582, 2620, 2860 is what's in the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. It's not today's session, it's the sessions. Please vote. [[10:48:51]] For 237 Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, yesterday the daily routine was 2,698 with regard to the return of full - scale pensions to retired workers. Today the question was raised as a minimum of three factions. We ask you to put it, if you don't want to put it in a bag, put it to the vote separately. This is a question worth 191 million dollars by the end of the year. These are the funds that are in the treasury account today that are in the budget. But that will be fair when working pensioners, those who have earned a pension, receive a full pension. Request to put this to a vote for inclusion in the agenda, 2698. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u40	Please, People's Deputy Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u41	The Rebirth Group is calling for Decree 2578 to be put to the vote. The decision is very short. In accordance with the requirements of article 113 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s compliance with all the terms of the International Monetary Fund threatens a large part of the population of Ukraine to be outside the poverty line. And first of all, to entrust Kabmina with a mission of the International Monetary Fund to review the conditions for Ukraine to receive credit for the non-admission of rapid increases in prices, housing and utility tariffs for the population and primary goods and medicines, the reduction of social expenditure, the abolition of taxes and taxes, the reduction of health and public education facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, please show your importance to the people and protect the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the decree did not get the required number of votes. Oleg Lazko is a minute and we are moving on to the day - to - day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for a respected colleague who has just urged us to protect the people of Ukraine. Why didn't you protect the people of Ukraine when you were in the faction of the Party of Regions? Why didn't you protect the people of Ukraine when Yanukovich robbed the country and killed in Maidan? With regard to this draft decision, the Radical Party faction voted in favour of this project, because we also believe that all the loans we take should go to the job creation, to the national economy, not to the food, not to the budgetary holes, and not to the repayment of the previous loans. Last year, nine billion dollars of credit was taken -- 15 billion dollars of credit was paid, it's a road to nowhere, it's a road to default. So we think that if we take credit, it's just to create jobs. Giving people jobs, wages, prospects, that's why they take credit, not eat and steal. We are firm, Radical.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u44	Colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We agreed that we didn't put anything out of our voice. Draft decree amending the decision of the Supreme Council of 11 December 2014 (registration number 2321) prepared by the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergei Taruta. There is an offer by the author to consider this motion for a summary ruling. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. [[10:53:14]] For 193 Decision taken. Please welcome Sergey Taruta People's Deputy of Ukraine to report
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u45	The Honourable Deputies, at the time of the adoption of the Decree on 11 December, were inaccuracies, and the suburb of Mariupol, which belonged to the Nouveau region, was referred to the Volnovach region. At a distance of 70 kilometres, no one is performing any administrative services to date. There was a decision by the village council, a decision by Mariupol, support by the district administration to correct the error and join the winegrower village council in the city of Mariupol in order to ensure that all local government officials who do not receive a salary within three months are finally paid. Therefore, please support everyone. Mariupol, we know it's a hot spot, it's this village council that's on the outskirts, and so far it can't technically be served at a distance of 70 kilometers through the post office. Therefore, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u46	Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u47	Honorary National Deputies, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government discussed at its meeting on 13 May 2015 the draft of the Supreme Council's Order on Amendments to the Decree of 11 December 2014 on Changes in the Administrative and Territorial System of the Donetsk Region, the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the Volnovaski, Novoazovsky and Telmanov region of the Donetsk region, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Taruta. As a result of the general discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, in accordance with the first and second parts of article 114 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, that it should adopt a draft decision on the outcome of the first reading on the basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, two for, two for against. Please sign up. National MP Romanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u49	In fact, the faction of Self-Help (Paulo Kishkar) will support this project of course. The only problems that we highlight during our visit to Volnovaha are the problems that we have experienced. And in fact, the Thelmanov RDA exists. She lives, works, and exists, not on paper, but in reality in Mariupoli. We're paying attention to Mr. President, we're paying attention to the executive at the places, the Donetsk district government, that if there's no territory, there can't be a district state administration. If we've joined these village councils in Volnovaha, and the Volnova region is now a little bit smaller than the territory of the Chernivecki region, please remove those organs that are not needed. Add these to the list for the Volnowska RDA and add those people to do their jobs. And so it turns out that there are actually two RDAs that don't do anything, they're driving around in Mariupula, and there's not enough people in Volnovas. Let's think more progressively and more flexibly about using the possibilities that we have, fairly limited. Let's work! We pay attention to both Mr. President and the head of the Donetsk district administration to this inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u51	Matvienka, Peter Dustock's Block. Dear colleagues! If we didn't have the Unification of Communities Act, Volodymyr Borisovich, I am also addressing you, it is clear that this decree should be supported. Today, there is the Law on the Unification of Communities, on the voluntary unification of communities. Instead of moving under this law, we are civilized to increase the capacity of the community, to form one community, to create appropriate opportunities within this community, we are joining the village council. We're going to create a mother, and we're going to make it difficult to organize local self-government in this area, and it's not clear what we're doing. So, Volodymyr Borisovich, I don't think that the presence of the Unification of Communities Act allows us to vote in favour of similar decrees. Let them act according to the law. And then we'll understand that we're creating viable communities. We don't produce a line of motherhood. I do not know, personally I will abstain and ask the authors of this decree to act in accordance with the legislation we have given to unite communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u52	Thank you. National MP of the Anointed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u53	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In general, we support the decree. We see that there are conclusions of a positive committee. The author really cares about these questions. But I have one question for this author. Dear Mr. Taruta, where were you yesterday without 10-6 when we voted on important bills that support internally displaced persons?Oh, my God! Where have you been?Oh, my God! Where were the opposition block, where were the other representatives?Oh, my God! Dear Mr. Groissman, yesterday, yesterday and Anton, and everyone, and everyone who was missing yesterday! And so, Your Honor, Mr. Groissman, your control system worked yesterday. Here's your control system -- red is marked by those who weren't in the hall when important bills are voted on! So, dear fellows, I urge you here to do not what we do. We support your decision. But we must support, first and foremost, the people, the military, the parents, the children, not what we are doing now! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u54	Thank you, dear friends. I'm very glad that the statistics that we're running publicly on the website are finally starting to work. And the people's deputies come out and talk about who voted and who didn't. Please, Maria Mathios, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u55	Sergei Alexiyovich, tell us where you were yesterday at six o'clock. I know that Mr. Taruta was in Mariupola at six o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, look. Vasil Vasilovich, please, Sergey Taruta, please. You remember this movie: "What are you yelling at?".. Who? Who's to be told? Who's on the stand? Yeah, what are you yelling at? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Alexiyovich. Sergei Alexiyovich, tell me it's you, because your colleagues didn't recognize you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u57	It's me, Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich. I was in Mariupola yesterday. It was a very important day for Mariupol. Ambassador Tombinski arrived yesterday, was an adviser to Ambassador France, was also a German consul and was a Polish consul. It was the first trip of such a distinguished delegation. And I've been doing this for four months. I wrote a travel application, so I'm sorry, but I was in Mariupola.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u58	Thank you, Sergey Alexiovich. Mikola Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u59	How Anatoly Sergiyovich posed the right question as to whether the Unification of Communities Act could not be used. Yeah, we could, we could talk about it at the committee meeting, we recommended it, but the author of the decision insisted that we make this decision now, because people don't get a few months, budget institutions don't get a salary, and so on. And the Unification of Communities Act will really only be implemented by the end of the year, so that it will take effect and resolve all procedural issues. So I urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of the decree and to help the people who live will now live in the city of Mariupol. The settlement, and there for the locals, will not be a mother, Anatoly Sergiyovich, and these councils will be eliminated, and this will become a city. The city of Mariupol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u60	Thank you. There is an important clarification. Please, Dmitri Lubinets, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u61	Dmitry Lubinets, 60th Majority District, Donetsk Region, Petra Poroshenko. The decision itself is not bad in itself. The only thing I've ever seen, Sergey Aleksevich, was these people in Vineyard. This is my constituency, and I have proved that it is impossible to take one settlement and join Mariupol, leaving some two settlements with a territorial centre in Volnovah 130 kilometres away. I've proved that if you want to take Mariopol, there are no questions. But then you'll take the two that are next door. In addition, we have the Community Association Act, and people have gone for it. And the fact that they don't get paid is not true. Thank God, we've put the Cabinet of Ministers in order by the last decree. All social payments are made there, little has been paid for all school and medical salaries for several months. Therefore, I ask that this order be sent for further processing. And if you connect this settlement to Mariupol, add two more that are nearby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u63	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Unfortunately, the adoption of similar rulings in Parliament reminds me of a film and a hero who said, "The chemical power? Take it away." Unfortunately, we're constantly administratively legitimizing the surrender of territories, and we're constantly going to Parliament to meet terrorists and invaders. In this case, another problem raised by Comrade Kishkar is the existence of courts in the occupied territories, which are located in Mariupola and other cities, administrations and so forth. It is necessary to unite the efforts of the nation, to unite the military, and to free the territories, not to make decisions about their reduction. The Radical Party faction will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u64	Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u65	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. You know, I listen very carefully to the speeches, and, you know, it's hard to even comment on some of them. The problem is indeed a problem that needs to be addressed. The fact that the decree does not address this issue in an integrated way is true, but there are still problems for people living in the city of Mariupol. I think this problem needs to be resolved by a vote and put the "and" point. The fact that we all need to undertake administrative and territorial reform, and it has long come into existence in Ukraine, there is no doubt about it and, of course, we need to prepare for it and take it seriously. But today, this is the decision that has been drawn up, it has passed the committee, it has been agreed upon by the people of the city, it has been agreed upon by the inhabitants of the settlement, no matter what surrender this is not and cannot go on, so there is a proposal: to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that all those who have spoken have a point -- all of them are right about what they need and support on the one hand, and take into account the suggestions that have been made. But I don't think we have the right to fail this decision. As far as I can see, colleagues, not everyone is willing to vote in favour of this decree in different factions. So let's do it this way. If the author insists, I'll put it to a vote. If the author does not insist, he may return to the Committee or the author. Thus, to include the two population points that have been said. Sergey Taruta, please give me a minute. I'm consulting you, and I can make that offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u67	Thank you. It is not a new decision, but a change to what we have already adopted. And everyone here in this room has already voted for it. Among other things, the Radical Party voted in favour of the ruling. And now we're just correcting and changing, changing those mistakes. I was walking outside the rostrum when we voted that there was a mistake. We said we'd change it all in a week. It's been three months! This is an already voted order and we are amending it. Let's vote. Then let Mariupol see who really thinks of them and who speculates!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, look, the representatives who spoke from this rostrum are also daughters. And they understand what the population is talking about. If there is a proposal for deputies, it might be considered. But let's do it this way. I can now put a signal vote so I don't fail this ruling. If it doesn't get the right number of votes, we'll send it to the author for processing. Then I'd like to ask you, Sergey Alexiyovich, to speak with colleagues who have spoken in positions, to meet again, to discuss. Not to make any mistakes. I don't see any problem here with this to work with. Is that an approach taken? Is it accepted? Please be prepared. Signal vote. Draft Decree 2321, signal vote. Please be determined, Your Honor, a vote of 2321. [[11:10:45]] For 222 I think she can vote now, she can vote. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please, 23. You have a decision, registration number 2321, in general. 2321 in total. Vote. 2321, please. [[11:11:44]] For 239. Decision taken. I would only ask that what the Lubinese People's Deputy said, let's work on the decision, maybe we should make some more changes here. Please work and we'll figure it out. Thank you. You have been introduced with the draft Order on the Change and Establishment of the Borders of the Donetsk Region – National Deputy Kurilo Vitali Seminovich has prepared a draft decision. There's an offer from the author to consider it as a reduced procedure, please be determined – 2792. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:12:41]] For-183 Decision taken. Please, Vitaly Semenovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The decision differs somewhat from the previous one, although it also refines the boundaries of a number of population areas in the Donetsk region. It's different because if people were already connected to a particular area, in this case, two population points are the Mironov Village Council and the Light City Council, which have a total of more than 15,000 people, they were part of the town of Debaltsev. And after the famous events, these settlements are located in an area controlled by Ukraine. In this regard, the treasury service, schools that are there, hospitals, kindergartens, that is, all the infrastructure, does not receive wages, does not work, is actually paralyzed. So there's an offer made by the Artemian district, the district council of Artemian, which is agreed by the administration of Donetsk, the military-civil administration. The proposal is to increase the territory of the Artemian region by 1,000 acres [1,323 ha] of land by handing over 1,000 acres [1,111 ha] of land to the Peace Council and 212 hectares of the City Council. This is a situation that is said to be force masonry, because people there, in an area controlled by Ukraine, have received no social assistance, no wages, no hospitals, no medicine, nothing since January. That's why I'd ask the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u70	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u71	I'd like the people's deputies to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u72	Please, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u73	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government reviewed the draft decree at its meeting on May 13, proposing that the decision be taken in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. It's going to be the elimination of that uterus that existed in Debaltsev so far. And people (who spoke to the reporter) could get social benefits and pensions and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please. Yuri Pavlenko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u75	Yes, please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u76	Respectable colleagues, distinguished participants. Of course, we are now considering the right projects. But I want to draw your attention to why the situation is now. Because the Government had made inadequate decisions, inadequate decisions where wrong distinctions had been made in those settlements under Ukraine's control today. We therefore demand that the Government address at its level the issue of social benefits, pensions, wages in territories that are both controlled by Ukraine and are not controlled. Today, people from Donetsk and Luhansk, pensioners, to think, pensioners won the government's trial, won the government's appeal. And they proved that they were obliged to pay people today. We're all in this room adequate, and we understand that there is a difficult situation. And we are well aware that there are technical moments. But when the Government is stupidly ignoring the decision of the courts, they are not followed, they are ignored by millions of pensioners who have done nothing to get out of Luhansk to get out of Donetsk to protect these people. And now they've been left there alone to starve to death. That is what we insist, and the Opposition Unit insists that anti-constitutional rules be removed in order to restore all payments laid down under the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, so that the Donbass Committee can be established in Parliament, which would clearly prescribe procedures for people today to receive paid pensions, wages and paid social benefits. These are Ukrainian citizens, and we are obliged to support and assist them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u77	Paul Kishkar, "self-help", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u78	Self-help, Paul Kishkar, Self-Help. Self-help urges colleagues to support the decision. The only thing that I'm not really sure about is that everyone in this room is full of reason. Because it's just populist to say things like that, given your political experience, well, they were afraid of God at least. Believe that people of nations that are really Ukrainians care and think about those who are in temporarily occupied territories. And we will make every effort without regret to bring them back to the bosom of Ukraine to rebuild Ukraine in our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u79	Please, Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u80	Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we are all asking, our faction, to support this decision on the basis and in general. Because these are the areas that are daily under attack by our enemy. We have a really difficult situation there. There are local hospitals and emergency medicine and disaster medicine that provide daily assistance to both civilian and injured populations. And they are not really paid in connection with the fact that they are unfortunately referring to the Debalts region. Please remind our government, and our faction officially appeals to the government of Ukraine to help the Artemian region and the city of Artemis in view of the fact that the population of the city of Artemus and Artemus region has increased by 40 percent from those living before the beginning of the war. They have a very difficult situation. The city of Artemywsk has five hostels in critical condition, where the children and the settlers live, and there is an urgent need for repairs. Mary does her best to repair the hospitals and accept the wounded, the displaced, and our wounded. Let me remind you that the Artemovska Hospital has received more than 3,000 wounded during this period, there are prominent doctors, medical heroes working, our military doctors, and they need our help. We would like to ask the Parliament to support this decision at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! We've discussed this draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the Donetsk Region of Artemis, and there is a proposal for a committee to take the decision as a whole. Please take your seats, your fellow national MPs, and prepare for the vote. The draft Decree (Registration No. 2792) amending and establishing the boundaries of the Artemian region of the Donetsk Region has been introduced to your vote. Please, Your Honor, we vote, there is a proposal to vote on the draft ruling as a whole. Please, in general. [[11:22:43]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go over the draft laws in the first reading. You have been introduced to your consideration the draft Law (Registration No. 1270) on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code (to improve the transfer of land for social or social purposes), National Deputy Bondar Viktor Vasilovich. There is a proposal by the author to consider the draft law in a reduced procedure. I'd like you to define 1270 as to the reduced procedure, your honors. [[11:23:30.]] For 176 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u82	Thank you. The honourable Volodymyr Borisovich, honourable colleagues, the bill is designed to address the gap that exists today in land legislation on the issue of the acquisition and treatment of land areas alienated from social needs or on the grounds of social necessity. In short and simple words, the point is that today, when there are constructions of infrastructure projects or projects for the development of the area, the city, the area, there is a need to buy land and form a district administration or a city that is the contracting authority of the work. At the same time, if you look at it, there's a gap between the Budget Code and the Earth Code. For example, the district administration or the city buys land for social purposes, for road construction or for infrastructure, and it is not able to form itself normally, since under other land laws, the Land Code requires the formation and arrangement of the purchase of the property with the appropriate territorial administration, the land authorities. So the colossion, when the land is being bought for social purposes at the expense of local budgets, and the formation takes place at another territorial authority, loses the community of funds, the ownership does not acquire that structure, that is, the district administration or the city for which the operation is being carried out. We propose to amend article 122 of the Code of Land so that ownership can be acquired and the structure that makes the purchase of this land available for social purposes. A simple and normal bill that really solves the issues of the territorial community and local self-government. Thank you. And I would like you to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Bakumenko. A report from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! You have before you a bill proposing to supplement article 122 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with a new part of establishing that land, alienated for social or social purposes, is available for use or owned by authorities that have made such a decision on their ransom. The committee noted that the distribution of powers by executive authorities, local self - government authorities for the redemption of private property for public purposes for today’s time is confusing. For example, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine purchased the land for national security purposes, after which it became the property of the State, but the district’s district administration, rather than the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has a permanent use of a certain military unit. The bill proposes to remove these differences, if the Cabinet of Ministers has bought the area, it should also sell the Cabinet of Ministers. If the district government or the village council has bought it, it must also transfer the body that has bought it. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to work on these points and proposals. As a result of the discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land on Improving the Transfer of Lands Deprived for Social Needs or Social Needs (Registration No. 1270) to be adopted on a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u86	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. Dear colleagues! Our previous colleagues have passed bills, especially in land legislation, so complex and fragile that it is almost impossible for the community to form a land for social purposes. And instead of simply being transparent, it takes five cycles of hell to decide. This applies not only to this bill, but also to the removal of land for ordinary citizens. So any bill that makes the land process a little bit easier should be adopted, voted and simplified for our people. That is why we support the bill in the first reading. And if there's any comment in the National Deputies, it'll be possible to work on it. But the norm is small, but it removes a very large layer of problems that arise in the formation of land that is eliminated: for social needs, for the community, including for military purposes, for defence purposes. And that'll make it easier for us to form and live with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u87	From Fatherland, please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u88	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! The faction clearly supports this bill, but I'd like you and I not to get confused. It is an alienation of land or a ransom for social needs. What is the situation today? If the district government, not the local government, I insist, the district government wants to buy land for settlement or for the construction of something else, then the withdrawal of the land is done by the State Department, and the agreement is concluded by the district government. So the money comes from the district budget, and the contract is concluded by the district government. This is a technical bill that allows the distribution of levels: district administration, Statecomym, district administration -- those areas that are being removed for the community of the districts, for the social needs. This is a change in article 122 of the Codex earth. I would like to support my colleagues because we have encountered this problem during the construction of Euro-2012 objects. If we adopt this bill, it will greatly facilitate the purchase of land that is happening for the community's social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u90	Thank you. The opposition bloc will, of course, support the legislative initiative, because it is aimed at the vast majority not at simplifying the ransom, but at agreeing upon the management and transfer procedure for the use of land that has been bought out for reasons of social necessity, for the social needs of the relevant public authorities and local governments. Of course, according to article 41 of the Constitution, property rights are unalienable, but there are cases where it is for social needs, social necessity, such as cases that have been reported by previous colleagues, such as road construction, highways, and other socially important infrastructures, that decision is taken, and it is necessary to determine the extent of the land involved. Therefore, of course, the bill is very important in order to determine the direction and determination of the competent authority that decides on the further transfer of the relevant land, use and property. Given that the provisions of this bill are somewhat optimal and small, we generally propose that the bill should be voted on as a basis and in general, because it is not appropriate to make any proposals. It's completely simple. He makes decisions about further transfer to and from use and ownership, decides on the redemption and alienation of the specified land for reasons of social need and social need. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we propose to vote and support this legislative initiative on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Smoky, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u92	What I'm saying is that this bill is extremely important in that if it hadn't even appeared in the session room today, the authorities of local self-government and district government would have forced us to look at the problem equally, as they've been rising for over a year. As a result of the fact that such a bill did not exist until now, there have been many court decisions that were not in favour of the authorities, since the decision has been made in an authoritarian manner. I take it that this law is completely simple today, and it should be remembered that everything that is simple, it is genius, it must be supported, it deserves attention, respect, and today’s vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u93	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u94	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Society, there's been a lot of talk here about how simple and such a good bill, how it eliminates various colonies and so on. Well, really, it removes one problem of legal, technical, but it creates one absolute injustice and absurdity, which is that if this bill is adopted in this form, the areas that will be taken away from people taken from their grandmothers, pensioners, some kind of shelter can be taken under the city, some other area that people use for their living, so these areas can then be passed on to private individuals for some construction that is not understood -- what constructions, how much they are socially needed for these constructions. Why doesn't anyone talk about it today in all of your speeches? Because if you make such changes, you can make these changes on the condition that these areas may remain in the use of state or municipal owners rather than in the transfer of to private individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, clarification of the 10th article. It states that land, regardless of its intended purpose, alienated for social or social reasons, is available for use or ownership for such purposes. for such needs, the same bodies that made decisions regarding their ransom. So there's actually a fuse, there's no change in the target, there's nothing. So I think we could, after discussing this issue, have a proposal to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. If there's no objection, then I'll put this motion to the vote, colleagues. But I'd like you to take your seats before that. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in favour of the draft Act (registration No. 1270): draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land (to improve the transfer of land for social or social purposes) (registration No. 1270). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready. Please, there is a proposal for national MPs to vote as a basis and as a whole. On the basis and in general. We vote, colleagues, on the basis and in general. [[11:37:12]] For 208 The colleagues, once again, on the basis of the proposal to vote as a basis. Please be more considerate of your fellow Members, for as a result of the discussion, no one has objected to and offered to vote on it on the basis and in general. In this law, there is only one article that I have quoted. Please, let's go back. Let's go back to this question, 1270. Let's go back. [[11:37:55]] For-286 We're back. The committee's proposal is based. Please vote. Based on the base. [[11:38:13]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The bill, registration number 1201, on the State Service, has been introduced for your consideration. On the amendment of the National Service Act (as regards the mandatory use of the Ukrainian language by officials and officials of the public authorities). Registration number 1201. People's deputy Golovko. There is a proposal by the National Deputy for a reduced procedure to consider this bill. Please be sure. [[11:38:58]] For-187 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u96	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the bill of 1201 amending the Law on State Service of Ukraine (as regards the mandatory use of the Ukrainian language by officials and officials of the public authorities). The project is aimed at ensuring that constitutional standards on the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine are met, and the continued adherence of the Constitution by officials and officials of public authorities to their duties. The bill proposes that the officials and officials of the authorities of the State should be able to speak the English language at the level necessary to carry out their official and professional duties, not to allow public displays of contempt for, abuse or abuse of, or discreditation of, the Ukrainian language. And the obligation to pass a language test in order to confirm the level of ownership required for them to perform their service duties. Society, it's completely absurd that we are today looking at such a bill in the walls of the Supreme Council. Because it is certainly only the Ukrainian State that is an exception in the world that state officials, ministers, ministers, others do not know, do not speak the national language, do not know how to write, read, or communicate. In any other civilized country, it's like normal. In Europe, in Poland, in Germany, in Great Britain and in America, but not in Ukraine. Here you may be in the highest position of state, but you do not know the language of the State. I think it's, and our political power," the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, which is unacceptable. After all, if we want to develop a real Ukrainian state, raise its level and status, which is essential, we are obliged to respect senior officials, implement the Constitution, article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine on national language. And they spoke, and they knew the language of the state. I urge you to support me. If Ukraine were really like all other civilized countries, and so we would affirm the sovereignty, independence and integrity of our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u97	Please, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u98	There's a lot of speculation about this. And so that this question is finally removed, I think we have to be the only ones on this issue. So we urge you to support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u99	Head of Alona Skrum's subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u100	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government discussed at its meeting on 4 March, submitted by the People's Deputies Gołk, Osuhovski, Illenk and others, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service for the Compulsory Rule of the Ukrainian Language. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office notes several very important points and suggests that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. During the session, the committee generally supported the idea of the bill, supported the importance of the full use of government officials in the Ukrainian language. And he said that really, the analysis of the language situation in the public service shows that there are certain problems and at least that the use of Ukrainian by government officials should actually take place in the exercise of official authority, which is not always the case today. In view of the above, the committee recommends that the first reading of the bill be based on the outcome of the review. And it expresses its desire to develop it into a second reading, taking into account the scientific expertise's observations. However, I should also point out that we have taken into account in our meeting an analysis of the decisions of other committees. And the Committee on Budget Affairs, first of all, commented that this bill requires very substantial expenditure from the State budget, as it provides for a new public language exam for all civil servants and a separate bill for candidates for public service, which will actually be a huge burden for the time being for our state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Please sign two for, two for against, please. People's Deputy Amazanov, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. I think that this legislative initiative has a place for life. Now, unfortunately, we have a disgraceful phenomenon when government officials start with a lower chain and do not speak the highest language in our country's national language. Of course, there are some shortcomings in this bill. But I think the very idea and the very concept of this reform, it has the right to life. And yet we have to implement state policy in the direction that everyone should speak the national language first, not the language of our aggressor who kills our children in Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u103	Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, National Deputy Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u105	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the idea of the bill is actually much more important than what we're talking about here. I have the impression that we have a new generation of ministers and officials, managers and lawyers who know neither the Constitution nor the language of the State, nor traditions, nor the belief that they work for the Ukrainian State. We have now to become a minister, for example, if you are a minister of justice to become a deputy and head of management, we have to work in the firm. For example, there in the Ministry of Ecology, you have to work with a brotherly law firm. So they have corporate ethics. They're here. They're lawyers, oligarchs. And we've been recruiting government officials from the Ukrainian state. Now, with all due respect to the President, I'm considering our sad bill banning roundwood. It turns out that lawyers in the Presidential Administration don't know that there's an article 94, and it clearly says that the President can promise the law within 15 days. You ask me, how long does the President have this bill? For more than a month now, that is, the officials of the President's Administration have not read the 94th article of the Constitution and are establishing the President, because he no longer has the right to sign the bill, already the Head of the Supreme Council has to sign the half-month. So it seems to me that when we say that a civil servant is a person who respects a state that respects the Constitution and the laws that know Ukrainian national language, and there can be no other argument for that man to say, "Well, I've taken a minister or a deputy. Minister, I'll quietly get up, read the Constitution in a month, read the laws and learn the Ukrainian language." Maybe with a test here, we need to debate what form of testing we need to take to make this test for language knowledge. But in the Ukrainian state, we can't allow pleasure to be allowed so that a civil servant, starting with a minister to an official, doesn't speak Ukrainian. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u108	Igor Forest, Opposition Block. Well, I've had a speech of one point, but after listening to the previous speaker about ministers who work in government, how they talk about their profession, I want to ask my colleagues right away on a coalition of questions: listen, who did you put in there? You're responsible for the people you've recruited. If you're ashamed of them today, if we don't know how to communicate in national language as civil servants, I appreciate the changes and additions that you're trying to get these people out of work today, because it's embarrassing for you to say, "Get out of work today." You're going to cover up the law. And I also want to turn to justice at the same time, Vladimir Borisovich. So we had Bill 1596 on political impartiality. At a committee meeting, it was said that the consideration of the bill was inappropriate, and he predicted one thing, he wrote in an approved form, the civil servant was non-partisan. This made it possible for people to be independent of those who came to power, professional. It has been removed because it is accepted, the adoption of one law on public service is being considered. By the way, I'm going to tell the Ukrainians that this is going to be in the Guinness record because it was voted in the first reading 20 times, and I welcome you all. Then please, if there is such a proposal in Ukrainian, in national language, make changes to the new law. What changes do we make to the law that has many days to live? Or, then, give the opportunity to deport through the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u110	Dear Head, your fellow dignitaries, you have to agree with the reporter who said it was strange to make such a proposal for the adoption of the relevant law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is equivalent to creating a band of choir singing in the operating theater, but the situation with the Ukrainian language, the use of it in the public service, is catastrophic, especially in the recent period. You need to know English and be part of a corporation, and you're going to be a civil servant, and it's spreading to the whole community. Note the results of an independent external evaluation from the Ukrainian language, which is a disgraceful phenomenon. It is clear, therefore, that this law should be adopted today as a basis and in general, for the provision of courses and exams from the Ukrainian language for civil servants, for the provision of an exam from Ukrainian history, for the history of Ukraine, and for the examination of the basics of the Constitution, for us to have a legal state, and for us to have a historical memory, and for us to have government officials to show us an example of respect for the State, starting with the knowledge of Ukrainian. It's a foundation, it's a foundation on which to build a state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, from the factions, please, Helen Schrum. Vadim Yvchenko, from the Fatherland faction, then Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u112	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Look, the bill is very necessary, but three weeks ago we adopted the State Service Act in the first reading. Today, we accept changes to the old law and the committee recommends acceptance as a basis. This means that in the second reading, this law will no longer be needed, since we will adopt a comprehensive Law on State Service. Vladimir Borisovich is a proposal for us to take the standards of this law into account in the new Law on State Service. And when we consider making sure that these rules on the knowledge of the state language about the examinations of civil servants are necessarily taken into account, it will be the right thing to do. Or it may be immediately accepted as a whole today, but once again it is necessary for these issues to be taken into account in the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u113	Please, Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u114	Yuri Chizmar, Radical faction. Dearly beloved, this law today, indeed, should be spoken in English and served exclusively to the Ukrainian people. This applies not only to officials of local self - government and government agencies but also to members of the Supreme Council, who sometimes do not know the standards of Ukrainian and speak from the rosary in Russian. But there's another problem: this is an educational problem, unfortunately, today we have to find that the level of teaching Ukrainian is so low that this year, with the results of the tests of ZNO, 23,000, almost 10 percent of the students have failed to pass a language test. It should be noted that today in places of compact residence, especially in Zakarpat, in Hungarian-speaking regions, the Romanian-speaking regions of teaching in Ukrainian are so low that the graduates do not speak enough Ukrainian. Therefore, the question to the Ministry of Education, Your Honor, is brought into line with your regulatory standards, and the quality of teachers for national minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u115	Please Rephat Chubarov, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! It's my fault that I didn't get to know this bill in detail. But after listening to some speeches, let me literally have a couple of thoughts, in general, the Ukrainian State Service Act needs improvement in all aspects. And first of all, based on what we've had in a year and what's going on, coming out of the occupation of Crimea. The other one. There can be no doubt that public officials are obliged to use the national language. At the same time, I want to just ask you not to rush into adopting it today and in general this law. Just because we have to improve some of the standards that will apply to those areas that we are obliged to return, we will return not only to the territory but to the people. The Law on State Service in Part of the Languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u117	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u118	In part of the requirements for Ukrainian, especially in Crimea, it was used as a oak against those who served Ukraine who wanted to serve, but for various reasons they did not know the Ukrainian language. So what I'm saying is, if only by knowledge of Ukrainian language were human patriotism its Ukrainian mood, maybe I wouldn't say that. So on the basis of today, yes, we are working on a second reading to allow all those people who are now in occupation to integrate back into Ukraine and correspondingly meet the requirements of the law that we will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u119	Please, Alexander Dehtyarchuk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u120	Alexander Dehtyarchuk, the Peter Dust Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have recently adopted two bills in the session hall in the first reading, a bill on public service and the service of local self-government. In particular, article 8 defines the draft State Service Act, which states that a civil servant is obliged, part of the fifth, to use the national language. Of course, the importance of adopting the Ukrainian language bill is necessary, but is there another bill to be adopted if the relevant article can be further elaborated both in the State Service Act and in the Local Self-Government Service Act? The working group will meet today, so the committee invites Mr. Golovk and all those who wish to improve this part of the Ukrainian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. I think everyone said that question. So, actually, I think that the colleagues who just talked about the law, in fact, we've adopted with you the basis of the State Service Act, which deals fully with the complex issue of language. And so, of course, you define for yourself, but I think that these things need to be adopted once and for all, so that it's a separate law that regulates all relationships within the public service, and it's perfect without any warnings. Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We propose, after hearing all the speeches, that the bill be rejected because the issue of the rule of the Ukrainian State is being comprehensively regulated by the State Service Act, but we suggest that the Committee prepare for the amendments required by the first and second statesmen at a certain time to learn the English language that is necessary for the integration of Ukraine into the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, thank you. We understood the suggestions that were made in the hall. I'll put him to a vote on the ground. If he does not now vote, it will be taken into account that he has been rejected, and we continue to work with the law that has already been adopted as a basis for regulating this issue -- the law, the comprehensive Law on State Service and the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. Please, Your Honor, we define 1201. [[11:58:31]] For-152. The solution. Actually, dear colleagues, this question will be settled. The decision is not taken. This question will be settled because it is defined and we voted in favour of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Actually, colleagues, we've voted with you once for this law. For in the Law on State Service this standard is and was voted. All right. Part eight, read the article. Sorry, part five, article 8. Dear colleagues, we're working on it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, 1332 draft law. Please, just a minute, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u124	."Paternity." Dear colleagues, let's not at least embarrass our country so it doesn't look like Parliament has turned this matter down. Let us now vote: take this position into account in the final drafting of the Public Service Act. And so Parliament will express its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u125	What a fine offer: When preparing for the second reading of the Public Service Act, consider the consideration of the proposal included in draft Law 1201. Vote. We're voting on a proposal, and I'm going to draw it up with a separate protocol assignment, a separate protocol commission supported by Parliament. Let us support: consider this position, consider this position when preparing for the second reading of the Law on State Service. Let's support it. Let's support it. Please support me, colleagues, this is a very good offer, let's support it. Please support me, colleagues, please vote, let's support this proposal in preparation for the second reading. [[12:00:35]] For 245 Sergey Sobolev’s offer was a fine one. Thank you, Mr. Sergei. It all became clear to everyone. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council’s Rules of Work, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! We're going into the hall to continue our work. Please inform the members of the faction secretariat of the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, we occupy jobs. I'm addressing factions' heads to mobilize deputies so that we can vote productively. We're not even going to be able to vote for a reduced procedure right now. That's why I'm asking. But now we have to vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Dear colleagues! We are now moving to a day-to-day review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Health. The author of the bill suggested that the bill should be examined in a simplified manner. And I'm asking you to support everyone, because otherwise we're going to go into full consideration of this bill. So I am very much asking you to support the author's proposal to consider the reduced procedure. Please support, please vote. [[12:37:54]] For 106 Thank you. I'm asking you carefully, I'll put it again. If there are no people in the room, we will stop the session of course. Now we'll wait a few minutes and see if the MPs come along. I ask my colleagues not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall, please. Are you ready? Then I'm voting once again on the proposal to consider draft law 1332 as a simplified procedure. Please vote. Vote. [[12:38:52]] For 118 There are no deputies in the hall. Let us, now I'm going to put it again, if we don't, we're just going to vote whether there's a need for a number of deputies in the room. If we don't, we'll just stop our morning session. And all the bills that have been drafted will just be automatically removed from consideration for today. I'll ask you who's still in the towers. Please come into the hall. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Don't shout from the hall. And for the third time, for the last time, I'm proposing to the author to consider Bill 1332 as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:40:00]] For 133 Then let's look at it. Let's take the first test, whether we're enough to consider, and then we'll go to the debate, because if there's not enough MPs, there's no point in starting to look at the bill. So please prepare for the signal vote, by a signal vote, we'll see if there's a need for a number of votes in the room. Then I ask you to prepare for the signal vote and please hold the signal vote, please vote, please vote. [[12:40:58]] For-170. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are not enough deputies in the room to pass the bill, and in fact we can't now any of the laws that are put to the vote and execute. Let's exchange thoughts, heads of factions, for the reason that there are thoughts. Because once again I want to point out that no one has warned, no one has told their electorate that there will be no work, no political party and no political power. And I say again, this is particularly important at a time when Ukraine is at war, at a time when our boys are on the front, on the front protecting the country, and many of the laws that we're considering are very important to them there, on the front. Let's exchange thoughts and decide how to proceed. Let's begin with the first of Fatherland, please Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u127	Sobolje, Fatherland. No doubt it's a shame. Our proposal is this: to start a full-procedure discussion now is a very important bill that regulates the activities of those who provide medical assistance to those on the fronts, so it is a very important law, and then a vote to take place when the number of people is needed. So the proposal is now to follow the full procedure, to consider the full draft of the bill package and continue to vote at a time when it will be possible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u128	Please, Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u129	Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk. This is usually a disgrace to Ukrainian parliamentaryism, a disgrace to the soldiers who are now holding the defense in front of the front, holding the fight, and now there's a fight in Shirokino, two wounded. But I don't support a colleague, you can't start a discussion when there aren't enough deputies in the room. And that's why I'm asking Vice Speaker to call the speaker here and the MPs, including who's with him. And turn through the loudspeaker to the conscience of your fellow workers, and let all know who is walking through the meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u130	Thank you. From the People's Front, Victoria Sumar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, obviously there is a proposal here and from the first deputy head of the regulatory committee to conduct a re-register and see how many national deputies there are now and how many cards there are. And further requests for the leadership of the Supreme Council to publish information about those MPs who are not in the room right now so that voters know and explain. What's more, I'm going to inform you that our self-help colleagues and I signed a bill yesterday on the amendments to the Rules, on the difference of the break from 12 to 12.30, if we can't get the deputies in the Hall after 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u133	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, however we wish, we must recognize the fact that today's attendance in the Hall is the result of a chronic violation of the Rules of Initiation. We haven't started at 10 o'clock, we haven't started at 12:30. Everyone thinks you'll start in 15 minutes, in 15 minutes someone will. That's the first one. What about the bill that we will consider? I'm asking the MPs not to spend any time in war. You've had enough of it all the time to focus on war. Medical personnel are involved in this matter, and medical personnel not only serve ATO soldiers but also the civilian population and the pensioners and the people. But in the end, it's about a social package that applies to health workers. I think if we start the debate, we're going to crash this bill -- it's on the conscience of those who haven't come to the hall today. So I suggest you don't consider this bill, you want to look at others, there's no need for poor medicine to collapse another bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. I'm just going to say, first thing, attention, honourable colleagues, I want to emphasize, all the meetings of each of our working days at 10 a.m. I'm here in the hall, Mr. Igor. And what we don't start at 10 a.m. is not the Supreme Council's leadership, but the fact that we just don't have a number of votes to vote on. And therefore, please. Would you look at the size of the opposition block? You go to Boyk and to Firtash and tell him to go to work, not read us our morals. You know, let your deputies go to work and then we'll work. And when we talk about war, it's someone, not you talking about war, because a lot of your deputies have caused our boys to die in front today. And that's why I said yesterday, a note to the Opposition Block, and once again, be correct in your statements to the MPs. Thank you. Please, Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u135	Mr. Chairman! Masterful colleagues! Actually, it's always hard to see and want to look better, but we look bad today. I really agree with the observation that MPs have the habit of going in 15 minutes before the meeting begins. So I support Mr. Soboljev's proposal to start a discussion, and many deputies listen to the discussion in the corridor and call them at the moment of the vote. You don't have to make an elephant out of a fly either. Second thing. Personally, as a doctor against canceling a break from 12 to 12.30, it won't add to the effectiveness of our work. That's why we're not talking, gentlemen. We're starting work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Cononenko from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! While we blamed each other, the MPs came. So I support my colleagues, let's get to work and make effective decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u138	Thank you, for your comments, for the discussions all the factions have made. "Rebirth," please turn on the Arrow for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! We see that there are no votes in the room, but these bills that we're considering are very important. And that's why I'm proposing that we go on a daily basis, look at it, discuss all the bills. And tomorrow, when there's enough national MPs in the room, we just call the bill number to vote. We can discuss all the bills today, discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u140	Thank you for the offer, there is no such rule that the discussion and voting should be separate. Society, given most of the thoughts that have been expressed, I'm going to re-vote the bill in short motion so that we can start the discussion. I ask once again those deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall to get as close as possible to their jobs, to prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing once again a simplified procedure for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:49:27]] For 172 Thank you very much. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Shiph Andrija Fedorovich, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u141	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We all know that human resources solve everything, and human health is one of the most difficult and painful issues in the field. In hospitals, there are no doctors, no villages, and nothing to say. There are no narrow specialists there at all, and one family doctor is not a few villages. People are forced to go to the district centers sometimes hundreds of miles away. For example, my native Dnipropetrovščina, the city of Ordjonikidze, about 50,000 people, the last young pediatrician came here in 1994 and the therapist in 2004. The young doctor’s salary is 1,500 dollars. Who's gonna go to the village with that kind of pay? Who Will Cure People? In Bill 1332, we offer additional State guarantees to medical workers: payment of benefits for service years each month — over 3 years, over 10 years, over 20 years; payment of annual salary for conscientious work and the exemplary performance of service obligations; payment of assistance for monthly salary on annual leave; and payment of an additional 25 per cent monthly salary for work in rural health facilities. As co-author of the bill, I realize that raising the level of work of the medics requires additional funding from the State Budget, but people who save our lives every day need our support. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill in general, and the committee supports it in general. Please support people in white robes and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u142	Thank you. Corchinska Alexandra Anatoliyevna is invited to the committee’s report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, before we present this bill, I very much ask all members of the coalition to return to the Hall, because this is, in principle, an important bill for doctors. If there is now a situation that happened last night with a very correct bill on displaced persons, which is not voted because of the absence of deputies, we are all ashamed. So I'm asking while I represent him, nevertheless, to invite all my colleagues into the hall. Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care at its meeting, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection (on Social Guarantees to Health Workers). The purpose of the bill is to increase the pay of public and municipal workers, health institutions, and organizations. In order to achieve this goal, the bill proposes to supplement article 77 of the "Basic of Ukrainian Health Protection Legislation" by providing medical pharmaceutical workers with the right to receive a monthly allowance for service of years in percentage of their official salary, the rate of pay, depending on their work in the field of health: more than 3 years – 10 percent, more than 10 years – 20 percent, more than 20 years – 30 percent. Each year’s salary of one official salary, salary rates for conscientious labour, one month’s monthly salary for annual leave, 25 percent monthly salary for public and municipal health care facilities located in rural areas and urban villages. The Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u144	Please let me finish – 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u145	The Health Committee of the Supreme Council unanimously supports the legislative initiative. So please support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u146	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, isn't there? That's why I'm asking: two for, two for against, please sign up for the speech. From the Radical Party is Vuk Viktor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u147	Kirichenko, please pass the word, Kirichenko, please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u148	Kirichenkok, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u149	The Radical Party clearly asked for support for the bill because it was a matter of social justice, first of all. We already have cultural and educational workers who receive such allowances. Why do we not love our doctors as much as other social workers? That's the first question. Secondly, we've been trying to destroy our medicine for 25 years. Until when are we going to pay our doctors less than $100 a month and not give them access to basic living as doctors? It's totally wrong, we have to encourage people to work in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u150	Now there's a statement in the entry: Musei Oleg Stepanovich. You pass the word to Matthew or.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u151	No, no, I'll speak for myself. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected doctors of Ukraine! Today is actually the day of the establishment of justice, to which our medical field has walked for 23 years. What's going on with the payback of the medical staff is a disgrace to the entire Ukrainian society! In fact, getting a young doctor at the end of a thousand and a half dollars, and then demanding adequate medical attention, is shameful and unacceptable. Little do you know that health - care payments are among the last - place industries. There is no sector where less official wages are paid. That's why it's a bill to restore this historic justice regarding the pay of medical workers. I urge everyone to vote on the basis of the bill as a whole. This will allow for the restoration of health - care workers and all who work in the field of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u153	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this really important bill. Our faction has discussed it and will support it. The only thing that we would like to warn is that this bill requires additional funding in the budget. And we would like to understand clearly that the Ministry of Finance and Government will implement this law, which I believe must be signed by the President. As part of this discussion, I would like to say that the most important thing right now is not just to look at some numbers that will give an extra percentage of the allowances. The time has come when we really need to move on to reforming the health system, when we need to finally give up the old "who-who-who-where" principle. And we need to move on to a new principle, when, in fact, those who provide the best in medical facilities need to receive the maximum allowance. And this should be regulated by the fact that the patient is actually the key in the health care facilities, not the place bed or any other indicators. That's why we support this bill. We're willing to vote for it both on the basis and on the whole. But I would like the Ministry of Finance to understand clearly that this bill should have financial justification. And this should be funded already in this fiscal year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u155	Please tell Irina Sisoyenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u156	I didn't hear who. Sisoienka, please pass. Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, there is little reform in the field of health today. That is why we, as a parliament, are simply obliged to support those health - care workers who work long hours in medical institutions for a demeaning salary of more than a thousand dollars. It is this bill that is important for those who will be able to receive at least a small but still a small allowance. The point is, for the budget, those amounts aren't going to be big enough, but for every person who gets a salary of a thousand dollars, the $100 allowance, 150 extra dollars, is really going to be an important support. So I ask all the MPs to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u158	Thank you. Opposition Block, Igor Shurma. And Anatoly Matvienko then the replica. Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u159	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. This law deserves his support. But I emphasize that it can only be voted on in the first reading. Let me explain why. Who's going to say how many health workers are working in Ukraine? It's not just a doctor's question. It's also a question of medical personnel. This is about billions of dollars a year. So without financial justification, we're just going to ruin the situation. Next. This bill does not give you the right to an allowance. Because right doesn't mean they'll pay it off. To my great conviction, when this bill is being drafted in the second reading, of course, it can be corrected. And one more thing. The question, I stress, concerns all medical personnel. It was emphasized that this was important to doctors. Both nurses and all those working in health care. As long as Minfin doesn't say "good," I think we'll just provoke the situation. At the moment, it looks like it's populist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u160	Please, Anatoly Matvienko. Well, society, well, it can't be from one faction of the performance. It's already a second performance. No, I'm sorry. Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u161	Andrew Volodymyrovich, my time is coming. Give me 10 seconds. Andryu Volodymyrovich, I'm addressing you, let's give a protocol assignment to the Ministry of Health and the Committee of Profiles. I'm finally going to have a strategy for the development of the medical field. We patch up what we need to reform. This is absurd. Without prospects without understanding it, we may be making mistakes. Thesis two. The Budget Committee always takes decisions on a bill or another. The basis for the price of this project and the time from which it is to enter into force must be from the budget committee. We don't listen to him. And the third thesis. There are social hospitals that have health workers. But they're all social people, social workers. That's not right. They're people with disabilities who use medicine. Hence, they should also be included in similar laws. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u162	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u163	That is why we cannot vote on this bill as a whole. I ask you not to make a final decision today without these warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u164	Thank you. By the way, there's going to be a vote. National deputies who are in the living room, please come into the hall. There hasn't been a performance since the People's Front, has there? Sumar, one minute. And from Fatherland, there was a performance. There was a speech, I'm sorry. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, for four months now we have a new minister of health who has promised to reform. So far, no one has realized that this is a reform, in what way will cost be involved in the health system? Obviously, this reform, it's not just mature, it's mature. And without answering the question, where do we get the money for this? To adopt laws that promise this money without consulting Minfin is simply irresponsible to people. But obviously, it has to be accepted so that the basic social standards in the villages will still be met. We support the proposal to support this bill in the first reading, to consult with the Ministry of Finance, with a budget committee that understands how much it will require from the budget. And we especially insist on the introduction of a health reform strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u166	Thank you. "The will of the people," Snatcher. Guys, I've got one second to keep your time. I'll tell you yesterday's story. The more good intentions, the more we discuss, the less likely it was to adopt the bill. So I'm going to ask the Ripper to turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the “will of the people” faction will support this bill both in first reading and in general. We would like to draw attention and share with you the concerns of the Ministry of Health. The issue is that we have tabled a bill to withdraw from the post of Minister of Health of Kwatashvili, since, according to the Rules, personnel issues are primarily dealt with, we would like to put the bill to the vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u168	Yes, we've expressed thoughts, all the factions that are in the hall. I very much ask my colleagues to come into the hall, because there is going to be a vote. And very important, I ask you not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall, my fellow national deputies. I'm asking you to take your jobs. It's a very important bill. In fact, all the speakers expressed their support for one another as a basis, while others said that in general. I'm going to put these proposals in stages and ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection (the Social Guarantees for Health Workers) is put to the vote (number 1332) as a basis. The first proposal is based. Please vote and please support. [[13:05:52]] For 257 Thank you very much. There was also an offer to place in general, is there a objection in the hall? There's a warning in the hall and I can't put it all together, sorry, if there's a warning, I can't put the whole law to second reading. Let's follow the reduced procedure of preparing it. Let's do a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. There's no need, is there? Okay, let's move on to the next bill. Next draft of the law. If there's a warning in the room, I can't put it all together. If there is, I was approached by Anatoly Matvienko, who has an adjustment. Okay, come on, society, with a short cut to the second reading, there's this requirement, although it doesn't matter, we'll get together in a week, but let's make this proposal with a reduced procedure for the second reading. Please be supportive. [[13:07:08]] For-149 Thank you. No support. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation of separate means of transport that may be referred to luxury items) (No. 1868). The author asks to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:07:44]] For-127 Society, I'm asking you again, I'm going to make this proposal. I ask you very much to take up your jobs and vote. Dear fellow MPs, I'm once again putting forward a proposal given by the bill on a reduced procedure. Please support, we vote. [[13:08:19]] For 114 I understand the MPs have the principle of a position to be considered in full procedure. Yeah? Yes. Please report to Barna Oleg Stepanovich, you have 10 minutes before the report, try to get into the rules. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the adoption of the Law on the Taxation of Means of Transport, which has a cube of more than 3 cubes with taxes of 25,000 dollars per year, it has become an interesting situation that cars of prestigious brands such as Porsche Cayenne 100 000 euros with a cube of 2.9, Range Rover worth 80,000 euros. Wait, what's that noise? Dearest, the biggest commercial for the Supreme Council and you make for yourself. Please sit down and calm down. So these cars that are worth over 80 and 100,000 euros, according to legislation, are not taxed at all. Next. At the same time, the budget cars cost 10,000 euros, 15,000 euros, with engines of the old system using our low- and medium-sized businesses, or agriculture taxed at 25,000 dollars. So to settle this question and to make it differentiated, I put the formula that you see on the board that contains a number of coefficients. This is the initial cost of a new car, a motorcycle, a boat, a yacht, a helicopter, according to the catalog, or the only price in the country’s salons at the time of purchase, engine cylinders, power, and age. So from this formula, I want to say and a similar formula is for determining the tax on motorcycles, helicopters, motor boats, yachts, airplanes, account for the initial cost, i.e. cars or objects of taxation, whose initial cost in new salons is less than 50,000 euros, i.e. cars of the budget, or middle class. Please look at the calculation for example, a 60,000 - euro car worth two liters, a 200 - horse - force vehicle with a new tax of 2,300. A car worth 100,000 euros 4 liters [4 L] of motor, 300 horsepower yields 34,000 dollars, a car worth 130,000 euros, 6 liters [6 L], 50 horsepower yields 138 thousand euros a year. At the same time, please note that the ratio of engine power to volume is directly proportional to the tax. If we take a car worth 130,000 euros, not 6 liters [6 liters], but 3, not 500 horsepower, but 200, it will not have a tax of 138 thousand, but five times less. Accordingly, look here -- this is going to be a reduction in the car's tax of 100,000 euros in 4 liters and 300 horsepower over the years: as the tax falls, differentiated from the age of cars, starting with the new 34,000 euros, in 5 years it will be twice as much, after 10 to 8. Next. Thus, taxes in this form are taxed on expensive objects themselves, costing more than 50,000 euros. The amount of the tax depends proportionally on the technical characteristics of the scope of the tax facility. In addition to boats, planes, and helicopters, there is only price. As the object’s age increases, the amount of the tax on the object decreases. For the purpose of taxation of this object, the sole price of the brand and the model, which makes it impossible, is taken into account throughout the country by the executive authority of any corruption risk associated with the assessment of the objects of taxation with age. That is, through appropriate evaluation services. Taxation is not subject to budget cars and middle class cars that meet the requirements of social justice and economic justification. Next, the initial cost of a new car will be taken away from any corruption risks associated with determining its current value. Next. And so this formula doesn't have any corruption risks associated with the ability to collect taxes, because the formula only takes into account objective technical indicators of the tax facility. So its initial cost is age, volume, capacity. They're connected. Next. With a differentiated tax approach, based on the cost of the object and its technical characteristics, the way in which tax collection is taxed is social and fair. Please turn three shots back. Note this point, the initial cost – the value of the new object must be the only one for the brand, the model across Ukraine and can be set on the basis of two ways: first, or the value of the brand, the official dealer's model in Ukraine, which is chosen by the executive authority, and if there is no or no such dealer, the Cabinet of Ministers wants to set up the service itself, then the central authority of the executive authority of the value catalogue of the objects based on the value of the object in the manufacturer's overseas catalog of goods by adding the corresponding customs assemblies – customs, VAT, excise collection. Thus, there is a five - year tax or an object that is no longer subject to taxation. So this formula and method have taken away any corruption risks. Moreover, he is deprived of such corrupt risks if one of the officials can buy a car at a well - known low price or as a result of a gift. I mean, if she came in one way, please pay at least the tax. Thank you. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, we have three minutes to ask and answer the reporter. Please sign up for the interview. Please. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure, first the reporter – question to him, then the co-rapporteur – and question to the co-rapporteur. I solemnly inform you. The committee. co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u171	Well, if there's no questions, then I'd like to tell you something else. Please, there are more formulas. Oh, yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u172	Mr. Stephen, I ask you very much to focus, not to take over the authority of the leader, and to listen carefully to questions. So, Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u173	Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to transfer from the Fatherland faction a question to Mr. Schlemko Dmitry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u174	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u175	The honourable report, on the basis of the calculation that you have determined, has concluded that for cars and motorcycles, the base of 50,000 euros that you are proposing will be much smaller than even the one that exists today in our legislation. How can you explain what is in prison?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u176	Let me explain. Thank you. I'm explaining, so please show me a tax slide for objects worth 40,000 euros or 30,000 euros. Please. So this formula, where you have minus 50,000 euros, you could put minus 30,000 euros or minus 40,000 euros. It will be appropriate to estimate vehicles above 50,000 euros or 40,000 euros. So we're giving the same opportunity for the Cabinet of Ministers to set an appropriate limit. And here's the calculation: if the car is more than 30,000 euros, if the cost is 40,000 euros, the cube is 1.5 liters, 150 horsepower, it's going to be a new one -- a thousand 294 dollars; 60,000 euros, 2 liters of 200 horsepower -- it's going to be 6,000 dollars; well, for the car, it's going to be 130,000 euros -- it's going to be 172 dollars. If you reduce the limit, not 50,000 euros and more, but 30,000 euros, please show a slide for cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u178	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. By supporting your idea of moving away from a normal literation, as the government has now done a pseudotaxation for luxury, and actually a middle-class tax is still going to take into account the price of a car directly, or do you realize that the fact that you're inserting lithium into your formula and you're inserting power again causes imbalances, where more expensive cars are going to pay either less or not much more than cheaper cars because they have less lithium and less power. I think your formula, your calculations showed that. This is one moment. One second. As for the catalogue, it seems unclear how to determine the price of a vehicle. The bill does not specify what catalogue is used in determining the price of a vehicle. Therefore, instead of a reference to a directory, it is useful to establish that the initial cost is taken into account from the living room, but not below the average price. The approach is given, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u179	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u180	This approach will also allow you to determine the tax base for cars purchased abroad, by the way. And one last question. We have to move away from the dollarization, from the euroization, and in general, the currencyization, so let's say, of our economy. We have all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u181	First. Indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u182	Sorry, ten more seconds. Try to get into the rules. Ten seconds, Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u183	We have all our laws to write exclusively in bracelets. It's wrong to provoke our economy to deviate from the national currency and to switch to any other currency. Please write exclusively in the national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u184	I got it. Would you please get the Americans to make, whether Germans or Japanese, lexuses in bracelets and give us back? That would be perfect. First moment. The binding of power and volume should be obvious and promising, depending on the circumstances that the same model may have the same strength and engines of different modifications. And that means that the larger the volume, although the machine, for example, is an Audi A6 with a 2 liter engine and it could be 4 liters, the more it has to pay the tax accordingly. Besides, why is power tied? Because it is the new types of engines that are forced that have much more power at a small volume, but this does not mean that they consume less fuel. So that's the question of ecology. That is why it should be so. Third point: relative to the catalog. Two ways of centralizing the initial, new price. And this directly relies on the appropriate body of executive authority that assumes responsibility. Or.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u185	10 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u186	which is duly trusted or determined on the basis of the initial price of the producers, including the corresponding customs congregations. This will be objective, fair, and honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u187	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u188	That's an interesting question. Dear colleagues, it should be noted that indeed, adopted at the end of last year as part of the tax reform proposed by the government, the construction of the local transport tax is not perfect enough. We all know that cars with a volume of 3,000 cubic centimeters and up to five years are taxed with a tax of 25,000 dollars per car each year for legal and physical persons. Our colleagues, the author of the bill, who has just reported to you, have suggested a few other approaches to taxation of luxury items to which it refers not only to cars but also to motorcycles, motor boats, yachts, airplanes and helicopters. Unfortunately, we didn't see how this formula would tax other objects of luxury for which the authors originally wrote this separate law. The committee supported the general motivation of the bill on the need to change tax approaches. This is especially true of the object’s composition that I told you about. These are motorcycles, airplanes, helicopters that we didn't count at the end of last year. But a formal approach does not allow for easy administration of this tax. So the complexity starts even when you get to know this formula. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support this bill. In particular, the government concludes that the bill does not provide for a mechanism for the study of the initial cost of transport equipment, especially in secondary market purchases. You can see it's hard to figure out. Considerable observations are also made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council. Furthermore, the bill does not propose a change to paragraph 267. Article 276 of the Tax Code on the method of calculating the transport tax required by the proposed money. Incomprehensible is the amount of information required by the internal affairs authorities to provide the authorities of the State Fiscal Service for the calculation of the tax. In addition, it should be noted that there are four more bills introduced by the National Deputies, No. 1830 - Levchenko, No. 2161 - Chumak, No. 2399 - Dmitrenko, No. 2484 The Shurns confirm that the idea of Barna would have to be implemented. With regard to taxation of luxury items. The Tax and Customs Policy Committee considered the bill. After lengthy discussions, by a majority of votes, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u189	Thank you very much. You're not leaving the rostrum, you'll have some more questions. Please sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. Three minutes of this. Please sign up. Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u191	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You just said in your report that there are tons of other bills that regulate a similar issue. But you're the only one who hasn't made a point. In fact, there is document 1830 of our authorship, mine and my colleague from Liberty, which was filed a week earlier, a week earlier than Mr. Barna's project. And this project just regulates that the tax is calculated exclusively from the market value of the car. I mean, it's a real luxury tax. I'd like to ask you how it turned out that Mr. Barney's draft authorship bill, which came up a week later, has the committee's conclusion and came out of the session room, and our bill, which was a week earlier, has no committee conclusion and is not currently being considered in the session room? Please explain this case, let's say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u192	Your Honor, I'd like to say that the order of the committee of the day wasn't me. Now I want to completely change our committee's approach to shaping the committee's agenda. And if there are alternatives that look like ideologies bills, just consider together, all that is today. And I want to say that we support your idea. And I would suggest that I go back to these bills and work on one new generalizing group of deputies that will solve this whole problem and remove the discussion on this complex formula.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u193	Thank you. Dmitrenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, Block of Petra Prashenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u194	Oleg Dmitrenko, Block of Petra Dustenka. The Law, indeed, has life, and it must be supported especially by yachts and airplanes. But what we need to focus on is that the whole world is moving on a car right now, and we need to promote electricity for everyone. Because it's really environmental, and it's less about cars. In general, the first reading should be accepted. To work, to turn off the cars clearly. And I support yachts and planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u195	That, I understand, was not a question, but a statement more. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u196	Please tell me that worldwide the trend is already high enough that the calculation will be made on the basis of the environmental damage caused by the vehicle, i.e. CO2 emissions. Was it not reasonable to take this factor into account in the calculation of taxes in this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u197	I think it's smart. Because we still have a number of bills on the committee that apply to the taxation of used cars. And we need to pay attention to the fact that used cars also need to think about environmental harm and not simply adopt populist laws. That's why I would have offered to go back to. And to work on a new bill that will take into account all of our questions that are now coming up, not now, as a basis, and then work on something that's not clear. So what are we going to work on? We have the formula of 50,000 euros, not taxed, but that of the top 50,000 euros. And the cars that you bought, the cars that you bought, the annual cars, you know that they cost half the price, and the formula is to calculate the tax as new, so you buy the car for 25,000, and it's to say 75, but it's to be new, and in a year it's to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u198	Thank you. Is it necessary to complete 10 seconds? None. Please, you can take your place now. Now we're going to have three minutes of factions and I'm asking you to sign up. But colleagues, let's consult, so let's follow the full procedure as you want, right? Okay. Then please, three minutes from the factions, make a recording. My fellow Members, I would like to repeat to you once again the rule of the Rules: first we have statements from the factions, and then there are speeches from the national MPs -- two separate articles of the Rules of Work. So, from the Peter Dust Block, Stephen Barna, right? You give him your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u199	Thank you. So, Your Honor, I know that not all of you were physicists and mathematicians, so I'm asking you to pay attention to the formula. Show me the formula again. First. Administration won't take long, because first of all, it's cars, luxury taxes, luxury cars, yachts and so on, another thing is that there's minus 50,000. I'm going to say again: The Kabin can set minus 40,000, or minus 30,000, to be considered. One second. Notice the formula: product, factor. The volume divided by 2 liters. Once there's a product, in electric cars, the volume is not counted, only the power in kilowatts, and once the volume is zero, so the whole formula (numerator) has zero. So the electric cars on this formula are not taxed. Next. The question of initial cost. This issue should be objective in order not to be the same again: the risk of corruption of lowering the initial cost of a car held or the current valuation of the cost of a car at the time of an evaluation each year. Please tell me if it can't be done, I ran cars across the border and constantly bribed customs to undervalue the commercial value of an imported car in order to have smaller customs congregations. And that's how it's done for the time being. It's the fourth time. Emissions of CO2. The next moment. The pollution of the environment directly depends on the volume and capacity of the car. (I'll tell you about Kuchma and Yanukovich.) The pollution of the car’s environment depends solely on the engine’s volume and capacity, not on how it is installed, but again, on bribes in environmental services. And so the secondary market is set up by a formula of 0 to 5 years. You want more years, but the initial factor that counts is the cost of a new car that goes down with age.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u200	Thank you. Dmitry Vasilovich from Fatherland, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of introducing a luxury tax in Ukraine is not new. And in the Supreme Council of Ukraine a number of similar bills have even been registered. However, when a vast majority of the rich or their constables made up in Parliament’s previous convocation, it was clear that the adoption of such a bill was absurd. So, indeed, such a law is needed today, for it is enough to tax and pay only ordinary Ukrainians, when rich people are left with their wealth and few, respectively, pay. And, of course, in today’s conditions, rich people have to pay much more. And the extra taxation of high income and luxury has been and is, remains in world practice. The tax on luxury is not only economic in nature, because it adds to budgets, but also moral and political. Because today people need to realize clearly that there is social justice when the richer conditions in the country pay much more. And they're the ones who have to pay more than the poor. But today I have a question of another order that has already been raised here. This bill was registered in February of this year, our bill under number 1344, together with National Deputy Vadim Ivchenko, registered in December 2014. Yet, he has never fallen into the daytime order, nor has he considered it to this day. And even Mrs. Jujanina, when she reported that he was on the committee, that bill was not there either. We offer a completely different base, tax methodology, tax rates. And the question is, why is that? Is it not a fair attitude toward one faction, one or the other? Whether this is a finding that I want VIPs with luxury items, and in this case not only cars, motorcycles, but also yachts, helicopters and airplanes, to reduce their taxation. Because the formal calculation clearly and clearly shows that the tax threshold is the 50th difference, all of which is higher. So it's clear that the tax on motorbikes is going to be much lower, even today. So we need to balance all the bills and bring out one that is one, but we're going to vote in favour of this bill as well as all the others that will allow the rich to enjoy themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u202	Thank you very much. Please, from the People's Front, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u203	Friends! I'm asking for a moment of attention, because it's really very important. Look, I want to thank Mr. Stepan Barney, admitting that the law is flawlessly laid down, his formulas are perfectly clear and transparent. And I'll tell everyone that Mr. Stephen is one of the nicest, toughest people in this Supreme Council. But friends, let's get together, friends, cars -- no luxury, cars -- it's a way to move. It's not a plane, it's not a boat. I'm just a person who doesn't have a car for over 30 years, not because I'm a drug addict and a drunk, but just an economic situation for many simple people in life. And for the rest of my life, I dream that one day I'm going to work out and buy myself a fancy jeep. And now you want to take this dream away from me, and it turns out, if I can even buy this jeep one day, I won't have anything to sell from the house or from the collection to exploit it. People, fear God, not all who ride in jeeps are thieves and oligarchs. I know a lot of my friends who went abroad with me to work with me for five years, worked hard, went to jail, didn't eat enough to buy an O.R. And now he's going to have to sell it. I'm asking you to think, maybe this law isn't worth voting for. Thank you. Mr. Stepan, I'm sorry, I really love and respect you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u204	Thank you. It's Victoria Juryev from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u205	Please hand over Victoria Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u206	Please, Ostrika from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, when we voted with you to amend the Tax Code, I would like to point out that we did not impose taxes on luxury but on transportation taxes. That is what it is called in the Tax Code. And of course, we made a mistake. Because we bonded to a three - liter engine, and to the age of vehicles, at least five years of age. Dear colleagues, Mercedes ML in 2015 is not an object of taxation for a valid edition of the 100,000-euro Tax Code. The same applies to over-road Lamborghini cars and so on, where the engine is less than 3 liters. We must correct this social injustice with you because one of the principles of the basic Tax Code is economic justification and social justice of taxes. I'm not saying that the formula proposed by the initiator of the bill is flawless, but, colleagues, knowing that the tax imposed is wrong, Minfin and the Cabinet of Ministers have done nothing to correct this social injustice for almost six months. The author suggests that we attach ourselves not only to age and volume but also to strength and value. Undoubtedly, here between the first and the second readings we need to talk about the possible reduction of the threshold, because the cost of the motorcycle and the cost of the plane cannot be the same. Clearly, then, motorcycles and motorboats need to be talked about lowering the threshold. This should be less than 50,000 euros. But to all those who are skeptical about this bill, I want to ask you: colleagues, do you not want planes, helicopters and yachts to be taxed? We have no doubt to adopt this bill in the first reading, to vote for it, and then to create a committee-based working group, and all the alternative bills that have been discussed here, both from Freedom, and from Fatherland, by working together to work on the approach that will allow and administer the transport tax, and to take into account their cost and social component. So the Self-Help faction will support this law and urge you all to vote it out with you now as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u208	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please, there's a lot of noise in the hall and just don't even hear the reporter. I ask you to keep quiet during the interview so that we can hear the thoughts spoken by the reporter. Igor Volodymyrovich from the rostrum is now invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u209	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Now that this is happening in the hall, it seems that the taxation of pensions is more important to retirees than the taxation of airplanes, yachts and such. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill and a topic raised by Stephen Barna. We need backup. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, Oleg, I'm sorry. But they're trying to get somebody's dream right now, buy a jeep. Someone's starting to say that there are alternative bills that are there. I'm afraid we're going to talk about this problem right now, so there's a proposal: firstly, to support, firstly, to unite the authors of alternative bills, to work on appropriate committees and to get to second reading. Because if we're now with this noise and gamma and what's going on, trying to save someone's dream, we're going to bury the tax on airplanes and helicopters, the voters are clearly not going to understand that. Once again, taking people's pension taxes off people, not laying planes and yachts is a crime. Therefore, the Radical Party is ready to fully join in the drafting of the bill, supporting it. And we urge all colleagues to pay attention and support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it now takes 15 minutes to speak to the national MPs. I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. It's being recorded by the National Deputies. Please. This is the last paragraph of the Rules, in full procedure. So Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u211	Dear friends, I would like to welcome my colleague from Oleg Barna's faction that the bill has been made quite clear, it is written in action and without the excess of populism that he often sins, unfortunately, the present composition of the Supreme Council. I don't think there's a problem with the formulas, because today, if we're talking about the whole system being fiscally converted into computerized tax calculations, it's just going to be programmed. But there are some small problems about what to push away from, because it's hardly worth comparing the price of a motorcycle with a car, because it's a expensive enough motorcycle – 25,000 euros already, but 50,000 euros – it's already a cloudy price plan for motor transport. The same is true of motorboats that should not be compared to yachts. This can be fixed. And I think here, really, it's worth not making the equation of everyone who owns the means of transport, whether it's used as a pickup for agricultural purposes or as a ranger for cool trips. This really gives the grading absolutely clear and fair about the taxation of transport products according to their cost. I think those who have learned mathematics well will appreciate the bill. And I think that once it's amended, you can take it now in the first reading and then in general. As a matter of fact, the same scheme can be used to tax other means that can be viewed as a means of luxury. It's real estate, it's other assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u212	Thank you. Yuri Mikolaiovich, the Opposition Block. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u213	Discussion about how to take a tax, whether from the cost of the car or from the size of the engine, not only do we have one. They come in different countries, discussions. And they do different things in different countries. In Switzerland, cars are taken from the cost, and in England, engines are taken from the engine. Why? Because a large-scale vehicle causes more damage to the environment and the city not only to the air, but also to the road surface. I wanted to tell you something else. When we first introduced a government tax on real estate transactions, we had no restrictions. It was simply the price of the sale, the value of the apartments, the real estate. The apartments, the garages, whatever, the flats. Then they changed their minds. Why? Because smart people start doing what? One amount of the transaction should be indicated in the contract, and a completely different amount of the transaction should be paid in cash between them. A new rule had been introduced, which added that the estimated value of the contract should not be less than the value determined by BTI. They started getting BTI certificates, buying these certificates so that the price wasn't too high, and then again tricking the state into paying taxes. That is, to withdraw from taxes by inserting in a contract, not the present amount of the transaction, but the amount that they will agree there, which cannot be omitted below. What we'll have in this case is if we go this way and reintroduce a subjective factor like the estimated cost of cars. We're going to have a separate purchase, a separate body, and the wheels are separate, or the wheels are separate, and the engine is separate. That is, people will again lie to the State, as usual, and thereby avoid tax. The current tax, which we have already established, and which operates in the form of engine volume, does not allow anything to be invented in any way to avoid the tax. This law offers a scheme for tax evasion, that's all. I therefore urge you not to support this law. That is why I understand Kabmin, who also does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u214	Please, Head Michael Josephovich gives his word to Yuri Lechchenk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u215	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Dear TV setters, distinguished people of Ukraine! What we've had in recent years is a constant exchange of ideas when power and most in this Supreme Council, or most regional or most of today's coalition is talking about so-called luxury taxes, is a fact. The introduction of luxury taxes is reported, and taxes are actually introduced into the middle class. Because they don't take into account the market value of a particular tax item, whether it's an apartment, whether it's a house, whether it's a car or something. And they take into account some technical subjective indicators such as quartz, metre, and so forth. And the fact that a house somewhere in Carpathian is about 150 square feet [150 sq m] less than 150 square feet [150 sq m] in Kozin, under Kiev, where an oligarch or an oligarch lives, nobody cares. So it is a good thing that, at least, there are powers to change this system of things. That they're finally starting to talk a little bit about not just liters and meters, not just square meters and some technical indicators, but about market value. But unfortunately, this bill is such a small step that it just starts the discussion, it doesn't change the situation. Of course, we will vote for him in the first reading. But unfortunately, as in the current situation, he again assumes the base, not the market value of a car or other luxury item, but takes the base of a literation, takes the power, and so on. Just a little bit inserts the initial cost of the car. It's unacceptable. We should have market value for a fair tax system everywhere. The more your apartment costs, the more you pay taxes. The more your car costs, the more it pays taxes. The more the plane costs, the more the helicopter pays the taxes. The more the coat costs, the yacht, the more the taxes are paid. Because in a state where people have a thousand two hundred minimum wages, where pensioners have a thousand dollars of pension, having such machines is not what, you know, immorally, it's not what's wrong, it's embarrassing, it's already bordering on crime. So if the budget is really being filled, the fight against social injustice is being said, then put in real taxes for luxury. To the oligarchs, to their servants, to make one percent of the rich who are now eating while the rest of the country starves to death so that they can pay the budget normally. And this should apply not only to cars but to apartments and other taxes for luxury. And this should also apply — I remind everyone, an honorable coalition! - a tax on the income of natural persons that you refuse to make progressive because you do not want to pay normal taxes from your declarations. And you pay 15 percent and 20 percent, which is just a circus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u216	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u217	The more a person earns, the more the percentage of his income tax should be. As it is in all of Western Europe. Where in Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u218	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, the rules for everyone are the same. I've given it a chance to finish. And now, the Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, the block of Peter Dustenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that with the tax reform from the owners of the transport vehicle, we've come to the point of being absurd. I want to do this tour, remember, we used to start a tax on transporters when it was the source of the road fund, and usually the volume played a role, because since the car consumes more gasoline, it means it has to pay more. Then we introduced a tax on the first registration of the vehicle, which was also the source of the road fund. Then many reformers thought we were going to get more tax than excise, but then it turns out that gasoline, most of the gasoline, is being imported into Ukraine by "sorty" and we didn't get anything at all. My proposal today, which needs to be divided, we've already included this property tax today, but if it's a property tax, it really has to be a cost base. And the suggestion, when we suggested that there should be a tax on a gun, that is, the more the car is fueled and paid, we did excise today. Today a lot of people say it's a luxury tax, but if it's a luxury tax, it's a classic tax, but it's included in our property. My suggestion: let's take a look at all the laws in the complex that apply and go back to the economic nature of these taxes, and move away from that. So there's a lot of controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u220	Thank you. Please, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, let's think about the first thing we're paying for and what we're paying for. As we arrive at the station by inserting a gun, we are already paying for a liter of fuel for emissions into the atmosphere. But where is the money coming from? These costs should go towards improving the environment in Ukraine today, a position like the Special Fund for Environmental Protection in the State, not at all, and the funds go to the general fund. What else do we pay for when we put a gun in a fuel tank? We pay essentially excise on roads, excise fuel. Where are our roads? Why, to this day in Western Ukraine, such a pit that the children, walking in the villages of schools, have recently almost drowned a child, and it is really not a joke or an anecdote, and it is indeed true. What else are we paying for? We have to pay taxes today for no expense, we have to pay today, we have to get out of the question of the value of the tax facility, and there will be no other way out. Today, we can tax everything, but one more thing to think about is if the cost of a car is 50,000 euros, then in order to officially earn these 50,000 euros in taxes, we have to pay about 27,000 euros to be able to come with 50,000 euros to the dealership and buy such a car. I think if we look at the nature of the money, where this money comes from to buy these cars, these questions will go away. And in our country, we will not feed exclusively by feeding the state budget in order to tax our citizens as much as possible, and the state is socially just and will help its citizens. And the more good cars there are on the streets, on our roads, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u222	I'm sorry. Doub Vladislav Volodymyrovich is now invited to the presentation, but he's handing over Dustenkov from the rostrum. Society, this will be the last performance. The following are no longer able to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I really believe that this law can be completed in the second reading. But as a start, in order to correct the situation in which we now find ourselves, with car taxation solely from the sails, we need to be corrected. And the approach that we're putting in the formula is the extra cost that we're also going to be able to agree on the second reading in a working group that's fair. What we place and place in this formula is not only cars, but also motorcycles, yachts, airplanes, and this is also a very good approach. I'm absolutely convinced that on the first reading, we now have to support this bill so that it doesn't delay until later, and then we'll work it out and take it to the second reading, that proposal that's already going to harmonize. I think there's a consensus in the room that this should be accepted, but also in our faction, actually. But we can work it out, thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u224	Thank you. I'm announcing a 15-minute extension to the leader's right. Now for the closing statement, I'm going to ask Oleg Barna, the reporter. And then we're going to go to the vote, so I'm asking colleagues, national deputies to come into the hall in two minutes, and there's going to be a vote. I'm asking you to take your jobs and come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u225	Deputies! Oleg Barn, Petra Prashenko Block, Ternopolishtina, Ukraine. I just want to explain to some of you one moment. First of all, it's a luxury tax. To some extent, it also looks like a waste of money, which has to be paid for yachts, airplanes, helicopters, motor boats, which are particularly expensive. This is a differential tax that depends directly on the roadway of the car, the volume and the capacity. And the need for this is that we should look into people’s eyes honestly. A worker who has worked hard to earn a penny can hardly afford to buy a new Lexus for 120,000 euros. A five - year - old car would not be taxed if he bought it. After all, these criteria can be changed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but most importantly, we have to respect our people, we have to respect someone else's work. And we have to face our people on a level. And if we want to declare our roads, our beautiful cars, properly, let's do it together so that all of our workers, the Ukrainian people, can ride on this beauty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u226	Thank you. Thus, according to the Rules, we have concluded the discussion and are now in a position to proceed to the vote. So once again, I invite all the deputies to the hall to take up jobs -- a very sensitive and sensitive bill. And I think there's going to be a vote. And I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. Please report a vote in the lobby. We have a proposal for committees and speakers: to accept it. And so I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation of separate means of transport that can be applied to luxury items). Number 1868 on the basis, please vote. Please. [[14:03:18]] For 176 Dear colleagues! What's going to give us the signal? It won't do anything. Come on. Society, let's make suggestions, what are there? How can we be in a situation? Please let Anatoly Matvienko or the chairman of the committee advise. Please, head of the committee. Southern, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u227	Dear colleagues! I'm still asking you to send this bill for further processing. We're going to work on the committee this week, and we're going to bring this bill to the next plenary session, but we're going to take into account the opinions of all the experts on this subject. And besides, we're going to get the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u228	Thank you. I think it's a good suggestion for us to vote in favour of going back to the committee for work. Yeah? I gave it to the head of the proposal committee, and I repeat, to the committee for further work. The head of the committee, please make an offer. Do we have a return to the subject of the legislative initiative? How should it sound, and what is the offer? Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u229	I suggest we return the author to work, but in the committee with the secretariat together, we will take into account, take away all the bills that are on this subject, and we will work together, help the author submit a new bill that is as necessary as we've all talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-20-m0.u230	Thank you. According to the regulation, the following proposal, which is to be voted on, society, by regulation, reads: "To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to work." The next sentence will be, "Go to the committee for preparation for the first time. For the first time again." So I will first propose that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. That was the proposal offered by the committee’s chairman. I think that's a good offer. The author agrees with her and supports her. I ask everyone to settle down and vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to "return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to recast" Bill 1105. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[14:06:17]] For-147 Thank you. So I'm betting. [[B in m in s a l in]] The company, followed by the procedure provided for by the regulations. During the procedure. Let's go through it, then exchange our thoughts. The next proposal that is proposed according to the rules, and we are going through a full procedure, is to be sent to the committee for preparation for the re-reading of the first reading. So, I'm making a proposal, and I'm asking you very carefully to send for the committee to prepare for the re-reading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal, the draft law on introduction. send a draft of Law 1868 for re-reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[14:07:24]] For 184 Dear colleagues, this is not how all the proposals got the required number of votes, but it is important. Another important report, society, Ukrainian national deputy Chubarov Rephat Abdurahmanović filed a statement in the Presidency: "In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and articles 9, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, approved by the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that it is part of the parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Assembly. Welcome to our distinguished colleague. And one more thing, guys, we have tomorrow's embroidery day. We used to have such a tradition that we would come to the hall in embroidery, especially the beautiful half, the women, the girls. This gave a very solemn holiday mood. So I invite you tomorrow, who can come to the embroidery. Today, at 3 p.m. in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be a parliamentary hearing on the theme "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine." Today, we have exhausted the order of the day. We have gained invaluable experience in considering the bill in full procedure. I think this is a good experience for our work. And our continuation of work will be tomorrow. That is why I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good fruitful work on the committees. See you tomorrow.
