ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now we're going to be registering the national MPs. Please turn on the glade system for registration. [[10:08:46]] 293 National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall Dear colleagues, we have an important bill of justice with you today. I would like to point out that there has been a month of work with experts on committees on the drafting of this bill. He's almost ready. And we'll expect the committee's decision to put it on the second reading according to the rules. As soon as it's introduced, we'll talk to you about how we can look at it. A bill on the Anticorruption Bureau has also been finalized on the final line. And today, after the coalition, we're going to determine when we're going to look at it, or today, or the next planning week, because yesterday it was working in line with European practice. Ladies and gentlemen, 310 national deputies have been registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we can immediately move on to the issues of the order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by the Order (Registration No. 1853), the draft Decision on temporarily suspending the accreditation of journalists and technical staff of certain media agencies of the Russian Federation to the authorities of the state of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to consider this bill, namely, a ruling, a draft decree, under a reduced procedure. Please decide on this proposal, as regards consideration of the reduced procedure. [[10:11:06]] For-160. Decision taken. People's deputies are asked to follow the voting more closely. Please welcome to the speech of the National Deputy of Ukraine, author of Irina Fries. Please, please. Please, Irina Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! You will be presented with a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on temporary suspension of accreditation of journalists and technical workers from some media outlets of the Russian Federation to the authorities of the Ukrainian government. This draft of the Order was developed by me in co-authorship with national deputy Onufric Bogdan Semenović, number 1853. In accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Information Act, one of the main directions of state information policy is to provide information security for Ukraine. In view of the current special situation in the country, some media outlets in the Russian Federation are actually engaged in an information war against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, even inside the state. The main task of adopting this regulation is to provide information security for Ukraine, to warn about information threats and to protect citizens' rights to information. The draft Decision proposes to suspend the accreditation of journalists and technical staff of some media outlets of the Russian Federation to the authorities of the State of Ukraine at the time of the anti-terrorist operation. I'm making a proposal and I'm asking you to take it as a basis, and in general, this is a draft regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, the co-reporter is Victoria Petrovna Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, well, obviously it's a step that wasn't too pleasant to consider, to deprive Russian journalists of accreditation to the Ukrainian authorities. And the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy discussed the issue. At the same time, we have been approached by journalists from leading Ukrainian television channels who clearly point out that their Russian counterparts are not involved in information politics at all, but in manipulation. Because actually what's going on today? When Russian journalists come into power, they record someone without representation from Ukrainian politicians, then they install appropriate videos, and all of this is used in the information war against Ukraine, and these cases are recorded. Therefore, the action proposed by this decision is radical enough, while taking into account article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights that restrictions on freedom of speech are allowed if this threatens the interests of national security and defence. In keeping with this rule, the committee decided to support and recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft decree be voted in favour, on the basis and in general. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u5	Thank you! Please sign two for, two against. Two for, two against, please sign up, honorary colleagues. People's MP Lensky, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u6	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko. Next up is Oleg Barn, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The Radical Party faction supports this bill, we believe that Russian media should be long removed from Ukraine. Unfortunately, there is little media available in Russia today, the vast majority of them perform agitprop, propaganda, and false insinuation at the address of Ukraine. Every day, who has a chance somewhere, or abroad, if you turn on and watch the Russian channel, in 20 minutes, you're definitely becoming a bright "watt." And you can imagine how our Ukrainian citizens on Donbas watch Russian channels every day when there is no access to Ukrainian independent media. That means that people just turn into zombies, then they take the zombies, they wear the shading belt, they go to the checkpoint, they blow up this checkpoint. I mean, when you look at the Russian media in the south, you turn into the ultimate idiot who's ready to kill his mother, the Ukrainian state to be torn apart. This is what these so - called Russian media, which are actually the branches of the FSB, agitation and propaganda, have become. That's why we support this bill, but at the same time, I would like to make an offer, and I would like to ask you to listen to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Klimkin tomorrow as a result of the Minsk talks. The issues discussed in Minsk yesterday are of great interest to the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian society. And I think that Parliament, because we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, has to know what the leaders of the four states agreed on yesterday in Minsk. So tomorrow I ask the Supreme Council of Klimkin to report on the outcome of yesterday's talks, if necessary in a closed regime, although I believe that society has a right to know what they agreed on in Minsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Stephen Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to how technologically we can solve this issue, because this is a question that we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u12	Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, Stepan Barna. Because I see there's a microphone on and there. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u13	We have strong solidarity and mutual support in the faction. We're talking about how we can make this happen. I want to tell my colleagues at Liberty who tried to do this in the previous summons and for the disgrace of the former Supreme Council, we didn't do it. We have to do this now, because our committee at the time on freedom of speech has been very convincing the MPs that we should do this, we would have made it impossible for hundreds of provocations and information attacks on Ukraine if this decision had been taken a year ago. But now to the text. Technology is such and would fully support that we in general vote it, Vladimir Borisovich, would propose the following amendments. What does this look like? The National Security Service or, for example, a public organization, the Nacrad monitors and temporarily shuts down a channel. Today, Nakrad has made decisions on 15 Russian channels and today we're looking at, there's an application for Techno 24, there's a disaster that promotes military technology and weapons. So it is not for the Security Service, but for the National Television and Radio Council to determine the list of means by which accreditation is suspended. The other one. I'd like to continue with the authorities of state and local self-government. Because, for example, in our border areas, for example, Harrison, there's a Russian channel that's accredited and somewhere on the border, some provocative stuff does. That is, he was accredited to the local government. So I would add "state power and local self-government." And once again, when I make this decision, I want to draw the attention of our law enforcement agencies to the fact that what we're taking in part of the 15 Russian channels is a big request to control it. I've already told you, come with us to the Supreme Council, see some channels in the Supreme Council. Therefore, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, law enforcement agencies must ensure that 15 Russian channels are not exposed to cables or satellites.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u15	Andrew Illenko, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Absolutely the right initiative, of course, is a little late, but we also have to ask a few questions and propose some adjustments. I have a proposition, and why in fact in the draft decree it's only about some media, we're going to let the B.S.A. determine who it is and so on. Let us, indeed, act adequately to prevent all without excluding the media from carrying out this activity. Because, in fact, they are all elements of the propaganda war against Ukraine. And it would be logical for us not to make any exceptions, but to make an absolutely right political decision that would apply to everyone without excluding Russian media. And we need to determine, not for the duration of the Anti-Terrorism Operation, but for Russia to occupy at least one square metre of Ukrainian territory and until then they will not have the right to operate in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The issue is relevant and it is addressed both by the author of the decision and by the profile committee, so any vote can have a significant impact on the ability to implement this decision. I would like to propose that we vote in a version that was worked out by the committee prepared by the author. If there are questions that need to be clarified again and made changes, then we will have a quality document. Otherwise, now out of voice, we can violate the logic that was set up by both the author and the committee. I think we should agree with that. So I would now like to propose to vote on this as a basis and as a whole this proposal as decided. Just like the profile committee decided. So, honourable national MPs, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote. In line with the conclusions of the Professional Committee, the draft Decree temporarily suspending the accreditation of journalists and technical staff of certain media in the Russian Federation to the authorities of the Government of Ukraine (register No. 1853). Please prepare, Your Honor, for the vote, and please vote, (1853) on the basis and in general, on the proposal of a committee of profile, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[10:23:07]] For 239. Colleagues, 239. Decision taken. I would like to ask respectable colleagues and the committee of profile, and the author, they were made by the deputies of the proposal, if that's what you need to do -- please work on and make some adjustments in the order that might improve this decision. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. As we agreed, the committee meeting is now under the Fair Court Act. We move on to the government bill (registration number 0922), a government bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (second reading). I invite you to report to the head of the committee of profile, Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You have proposed a bill (No. 0922) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility to evade civil protection during a special period, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill has been sent to the Committee on Legislative Protection for preparation and consideration in a second reading. In preparing the bill, 15 suggestions were made to the committee in a second reading, of which 14 and 1 were rejected. The status of the project remains valid for the time being. Yes, it is proposed that the Criminal Code of Ukraine be supplemented by article 336-1, which provides for the introduction of criminal responsibility for refusing civil protection services during a special period and in the event of targeted mobilization, irrespective of the state’s functioning regime, whether at a time of peace or at a special time. Changes to basic laws of Ukraine, such as: On the legal regime of states of emergency, on the legal regime of the state of war, on the defence of Ukraine and on the basis of the national security of Ukraine, aimed at removing gaps in the regulation of relations arising in the area of civil protection and not regulated today by the provisions of the Civil Protection Code in 2013. The text proposed by the committee has been prepared for review in a second reading, which has been handled by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority and has been prepared by it without notice. Proposal: Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending certain legislative acts (No. 0922) as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u18	Thank you. Of the amendments made to the committee, almost everyone is included. The first amendment is included, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh. Yes, we do not have just one amendment – number 13 (amendment of the People's Deputy Sidorovich). And I would like to ask, does the author of the 13th amendment insist on her voting? Is the amendment insisting? He's not here, so he can't insist. That's why the committee's decision is made. Thus, all the amendments that were made to the committee's second reading are taken into account and there is a proposal to vote in the second reading and in general the bill. Supported. Then I ask you to go into the National Assembly Hall and take your seats so that we can vote. Please be prepared. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (No.0922) in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:27:54]] For 238. Thank you. The draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Settlement of Responsibility for Domestic Violence (No.0920) is under consideration. The chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement Services, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u19	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed in Bill No.0920. The bill proposes to exclude from article 173-2 of the Ukrainian Code "On Administrative Offences" penalties in the form of fines and corrections, leaving public works or administrative arrests, as well as to provide for the possibility of recourse to a person who escapes from appearance to the internal affairs body or the court in the case of domestic violence. The adoption of such a law will result in greater efficiency in attracting individuals to administrative responsibility for domestic violence, failure to execute a protective decree, or failure to perform corrective programs. 03.06.2014 The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of the Seventh Council on the basis of the mandate of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Protection to further develop it, taking into account observations and proposals. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, two proposals were made by the national deputies. 14.01 This year, the committee considered a comparative table and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Settlement of Responsibility for Domestic Violence, No. 0920, second reading and generally as the Law of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two amendments have been proposed, both of these amendments are taken into account and I therefore propose to support the bill. Vote. Thus, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on settling the issue of responsibility for domestic violence (0920), second reading, and the whole vote is put to the vote. Please vote, support the bill. Please. [[10:30:58]] For 275 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Establishment of Responsibility in the Area of the Permit System, No. 0923, is being submitted for consideration. And the chairman of the committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u21	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I won't be out of this for long. With regard to this law, the only thing I'm going to say is that this bill was still registered on the 6th call, and then it went into the 7th call. Mr. Zarubinski, the author of this bill, is a member of the past appeals. This bill has now been passed to the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection. In fact, maybe for that period -- on the 6th, on the 7th call, it was up-to-date. Today, the issues raised in this project are, in the opinion of the committee, irrelevant. Therefore, it seems that it has been decided that the Supreme Council itself should be determined on this matter. But I personally believe that today, during Russia's aggression, during the war, there is no point in strengthening the Administrative Code by such laws. We are preparing today for reform of the Administrative Code, preparing a bill on criminal offences, where all of this will be settled. Therefore, the honourable chairman, we have a committee in accordance with the Rules and the Committees Act working on a table. But that is the opinion of most members of the committee that this law should be rejected today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u22	Thank you for the report and for the professional work of the committee. The committee has proposed that the bill be rejected, and I put it to a vote. And the MPs are already defined by voting. The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the establishment of responsibilities in the area of the permit system No. 0923 is therefore put to the vote. I take it as it is in the daytime. I'm willing to stand by. You already support or do not support. So just to make sure you understand the question. I'm setting a regulation to support this bill, and the MPs are determined by voting. So 0923, please determine by vote. Please. [[10:34:07]] For 131 Thank you. The bill did not get the required number of votes. And we're going to consider the next draft of the law. The draft Law on Licensing Certain Economic Activities is also a second reading. Draft Law 0934. And the report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Dougel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u23	Mr. Chairman, my dear colleagues! Today we have two very important bills that introduce a new culture into the work of the Supreme Council. That you and I haven't made a hundred different amendments to the bill in force, and the bill on licensing certain types of farming was created six months ago, then adopted in the first reading by the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call, and now we're joining you on the second call. Your decision. Thank you very much for the many amendments, for the professional work. I want to focus on issues that are conflicting. Please listen to Mr. Nasirov and some deputies who were very concerned about the articles of the seventh, which define the type of licensing. First. In addition, in consultation with the Ministry of Economics and experts, four types of licensing are added to Article 7. This is an external economic activity under the Ukrainian Foreign Economics Act. I'm stressing right now that this is going to be a very short deadline for this rule, because in the near future it's not a license for external economic activity, it's a license for goods that are quota restrictions on imports or exports. 25th. Centralized water supply and water supply, I'm paying attention, and the production of thermal energy, the transport of it by highway and local heat distribution networks and the supply of heat. I would like to draw Mr. Danchenk's attention to the provision of cryptographic information services, other than electronic digital signature services, and to the technical protection of information on the list defined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a question that touches the 7th article. I'd like to say hello to you if we accept this bill. Today there are 56 licenses, and we leave 27 licenses with you. This is a serious deregulation. And I would also like to say that paragraph 7, where the licensing of telecommunications is envisaged, will be in effect until 1 January 2018, according to the signing of the Agreement with the European Union. I want to give Mr. Nasirov an answer in part and to those who have asked very much for the type of license to be on a separate special bill. Dear colleagues, notice, our bill with you is the first bill to write for business full rules. They do not need additional decisions from the Cabinet of Ministers: how to submit documents, what deadline, what are the reasons for the appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u24	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u25	We can appeal. This is very important. And only two bills, according to the Ministry of Economics, are based on banks and radio talk, are subject to a separate act of issuing and canceling licenses. And that's why the accusation that the market for alcohol and tobacco, if it goes through in a clear way, transparent, issuing and canceling licenses, is, in my opinion, unenforced. What I'm saying is that the license is timeless, it's worth 1,000 dollars. And only by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in such directions as alcohol or, if there is, gaming business, lottery, the Cabinet of Ministers can accept a different cost of the license. These are the main points that I would like to stress. And that's why in the End Positions, you'll notice that there's points. Well, that's it, that's it. It's no discussion, no second reading, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u27	Ah, licensing for telecommunications activities, I said. Only for this activity until January 1, 2018. This bill was drafted with the Ministry of Economics, with various experts and with your personal participation, we received 490 amendments. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u28	Thank you! Indeed, a huge number of amendments have been made to this bill, some of them are counted, some are not counted, so we have to go through this route on a regular basis on every amendment that is not counted. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u29	The number is 179, 28 — rejected simply because it does not include the ideology of the bill that has been drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u30	Thank you. So I'm asking you to get ready for some hard and productive work, and I want you to start with the amendments, and I'm starting with the rejected amendments. I know there's a requirement for confirmation after the 22nd amendment. And I ask you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u31	The first one is 11th. 11th, Mr. Nasirov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u32	I don't have an 11th. 11th to confirm, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u33	Yeah, 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u34	Who's the author?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u35	Mr. Nasirov, he was just here. I said, "Mr. Nasirova, after 11th amendment, please."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u36	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u37	Good afternoon, Your Honor, presiding officer, distinguished colleagues! I'll start from the beginning, what's going on in this law? The author submits a bill that we support in the first reading as a good bill on deregulation. Then the author introduces a few amendments, which I would like to stress are substantially changing the content of the bill. In general, my suggestion is to send this law for further work, because there have been a lot of warnings on our committee, last night from the NCRE -- not to adopt this law. I can give you a few examples. Why, if there is a special Law governing the circulation of ethyl alcohol, there are other and tobacco products, change the law. What do you suggest? The license you said in 1,000 bracelets is now paying 500,000 dollars, and you want to make one minimum wage. So why are we taking the budget and looking for money for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Nasirov, for asking, you are a young MP and I will be very much to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, please finish Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u40	Listen to me, please. You didn't accept this bill on the first reading, it was adopted on the seventh call. And after the seventh call, adopted in the first reading, the bill was further developed by the Institute of Commercial Law and professionals from the European Union in part of the law on licensing. Anything that touches NRCJE, if you've heard carefully, Mr. Nasirov, listen, please, I'll give you an answer. Everything that touches NCRE, we wrote in this article yesterday at 1:00 last night, and I've already read it, everything that touches it, where you gave information on Facebook, which you're very concerned about, how will you issue a license for alcohol? Then you would be asked to read carefully the bill, where there is an article that says that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to accept a different value of licenses and their terms in certain economic activities. That's what these licenses mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u41	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u42	These are licenses like alcohol and cigarettes, these are licenses if they're introduced into the gaming business and others. And that's why this bill can't go to the committee head like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u43	Ten seconds to complete. Please give me another 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u44	I'm asking you to take this very seriously, this is a responsible attitude when you're kind of trying to undermine the adoption of a fundamental bill that's supported by the Ministry of Economics, which signals a reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u45	Thank you. Respectable association, a little break, we require professional and regular work in the hall. The second reading provides for its clear and formulated Rules. According to the amendments that have been rejected, the amendment has the right to insist, to express its motives and to insist on voting. The bill's author, the committee's chairman can comment, and then there's the vote. We will not go into the discussion because the discussion should take place professionally, during consideration in the second reading. And so I would very much ask that we start work systematically, professionally, as amended. So, Mrs. Alexandro, I wanted to ask you, I have it in the table. And so now I'm betting on confirmation of the 11th amendment, you're just regretting an explanation. Please give me another explanation, very brief on the 11th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u46	The 11th amendment, Mr. Nasirov, provides that all who receive licences for alcohol and cigarettes are not subject to the general rules governing how to file documents, the deadline for consideration, the deadline for refusal, the deadline for explanations, and the deadline for appeal. All other activities that have special laws, such as alcohol and cigarettes, are listed under licensing conditions and are affected by alcohol and cigarettes. We think it's useless.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u47	Thank you. Would you please tell the committee that this amendment has been taken into account or rejected? Not counted, but unfortunately, there's no record of that in the table. I'm sorry. It's very bad and I'm asking the committee to do professional work. So I'm betting on the vote, on confirmation of 11 of the amendment of the Nasirov People's Deputy. People's deputies, please determine how to vote. [[10:46:45.]] For 131 Thank you. Correction not supported. I'm sorry. I have a table that also rejected the 8th amendment of the People's Deputies of Gulyev. We have to go step by step. I would like to ask if the national deputy of Guljav insists on confirming this, insisting on confirming this amendment? Don't insist, it's very good. Next, 22 revisions. Please give your word as to whether Paul Pinzenik insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Paul Pinzenik, People's Front. The People's Front faction will insist on confirmation, on a separate vote after amendment 22. Among other things, the amendment excluded the issue of licensing in the field of nuclear energy as well as in the field of electricity from the field of special legislation. Amendment No. 22 also excluded from the scope of licensing for the complete transport of oil and petroleum products by main pipelines, the transport of natural petroleum gas by pipelines, the supply of natural gas by regulated, unregulated tariffs, the storage of natural gas in coal deposits in quantities exceeding the licensing conditions. In fact, this breaks the entire system of government management of natural monopolies. We demand that we do not support Amendment 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, head of the committee, word on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u50	Dear friends, Amendment 22 is a list of economic activities submitted by the Ministry of Economics and approved by the government. Mr. Pinzenik, you're a representative of the government. And this is the execution of our Coalition Agreement with you in part of the reduction of licenses. Please tell me how to license a monopolist. If he's alone, if you take the license to Kievenergo today, will she stop working? This is happening today in the world through other instruments that have a name or technical regulations or certification. And the government made a decision. That these species are not licensed. Article 7 of Amendment 22 is the decision of the government along with experts from the World Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u51	I want to ask you, did the 22nd Amendment Committee support or reject? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u52	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u53	Counted. Then we don't put her to the vote. 22 An amendment that is considered by the committee, do you insist that it be confirmed? Please give a word to the head of the committee. Please. Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u54	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, head of the committee, Radical Party faction. Dear colleagues, this amendment is now in the hands of confirmation. I want your attention: in this amendment, the whole essence of this law. If we do not accept it, there is no deregulation, no reduction in licensed activities. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take a very responsible vote on this amendment, because this is done with the Ministry of Economics, this is done with our coalition government with you. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this amendment, which is considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u55	Thank you very much. We have heard the thoughts of this amendment. I think this information is enough to allow MPs to determine their vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a need for that? What is the need? Then please give the floor to the minister. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u56	We fully support Ms. Kugel, and we fully agree that such monopolies should not be licensed when one market participant. That is why the Government has made such a decision here before.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u57	Thank you very much. Hence, all those who had the desire to do so expressed themselves. Now I'm putting the vote to confirm Amendment 22. And I ask you to determine by voting. Please vote in favour of amendment 22. [[10:52:10]] For-100 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. Next. The following amendment is made by 33 national deputies, Voropeyeva. It's rejected. Is there a national MP who insists on voting? Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 34. National MP Sažko. Does he insist on voting? He's not in the hall. Don't insist. Amendment 40 (national deputy of Semimenach) was rejected by the committee. Does he insist on voting? Don't insist. Amendment 52. People's MP Kiral. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 50 (National Deputy Kiral) is rejected. Don't insist. Very good. We will go through all the amendments under the Rules to demonstrate that the Supreme Council is working. Amendment 103 of the Sazko People's Deputy. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 104, People's Deputy Guljav. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 109, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Does it insist on taking it into account? He doesn't insist. Amendment 112, People's Deputy Solvar. Does he insist that we vote? Don't insist. The amendment of 130 of Simeonine’s national deputies was rejected by the committee. Is the National MP insisting? He doesn't insist. A hundred. I can't talk at the same time, Comrade Borislav. Amendment 138, People’s Deputy Simeonich, amendment rejected by the committee. Does he insist on voting? He doesn't insist. 146 amendment, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Let me call the names, if there's no reaction from the hall, then I'll take that as an insistence. Amendment 155, People's Deputy. 156, Semimenach’s National Deputy, rejected by the Committee. A national MP does not insist. 157 Amendment, People’s Deputy Solva, rejected. A national MP does not insist. 162 amendment, national MP Sažko. He doesn't insist on voting. Amendment 167, People’s Deputy of Semimenach, rejected by the Committee. A national MP does not insist. Amendment 173, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Amendment 174, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. We are gradually, but we are constantly approaching completion. Amendment 177, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Amendment 179, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Amendment 189, People's Deputy Sažko. Don't insist. Amendment 182, Andriyevsky People’s Deputy. Does he insist on voting? He doesn't insist. Amendment 184, People's Deputy Solvar. He doesn't insist on voting. Amendment 185. Is the national deputy of Kriboshea insisting on voting? No, it doesn't. Amendment 190. National Deputy Nasirov. Declined by the committee. Is the National MP insisting on voting? No, it doesn't. Amendment 201. National Deputy Nasirov. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 202 amendments taken into account by the committee. What's the correction? I'd like to give you the floor to reply to the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Once the room has been identified for non-supporting Amendments 2, 22, it would be absolutely logical to place Amendment 202, which is technically valid and regulates the issue of the procedure for granting the types of licences defined by the 22 amendment. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u59	So there's a requirement for confirmation of 202 amendments. Please comment, Mrs. Alexander Kugel. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u60	Dear National Deputies! The faction led by Prime Minister Yatsenuk of Ukraine is now completely destroying the European licensing law. There are corrupt forms of licensing that are agreed with the World Bank in part of the monopolies. They don't want to improve our rating at Doing bussines. They weren't working on this bill. And so today, with the amendments that they haven't made and which are fundamental, they want to put the license order to confirm. Yes, distinguished businessmen, I ask you very much, read it, and then think about who to vote for. Because this is a transparent procedure for getting a license. And whoever doesn't vote for it wants to preserve the corruption that's going on in the country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u61	Thank you for your comment. I have to put it to a vote. But please give another word to the head of the committee for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u62	Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I heard that not everyone was able to vote on the 22nd. Second, essentially the question. I think our colleagues at the People's Front just didn't get to the point of this amendment. Dear colleagues, this is about a significant reduction in licensed activities, about improving the quality of the regulatory environment. This is what together, we all worked together with our coalition government, what was agreed upon by the committee. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to re-apply with 22 amendments for confirmation. Because if it's not done, it's going to mean preserving the existing licensing system as it is now. And we're not going to have any real deregulation or real pressure reduction, including small, medium-sized businesses. Dear colleagues, I ask you to read carefully the substance of this amendment and to support it, as supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u63	Thank you. We're going to put it back to 22 corrections. But now we're talking about 202. I'll give the minister a word for it. Is there a need? There's no need. That's why I'm here. Attention! So that we know what we're voting for, society, and then we didn't say we weren't oriented about what the vote was about. Now it's the first vote. That's not how he wants it, I asked him. First vote. Well, if you'll excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u64	I would like to talk again in general about deregulation. I mean, the first part of the deregulation that. We simplify 56 types of licences to 26. Everyone's watching, it's a real deregulation. Throwing a few parts out of there will, of course, dilute the law. That's why we worked with the committee for a long time, almost two months. Therefore, together with the following Act 1580, these are very important laws, in the first part of the deregulation. It's very serious. So please support us and Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, we've actually been through all the adjustments. Now there will be two of the most responsible votes. The first one is for confirmation of 202. And then I'll put, at the request of the committee head, a return to the 22nd. Please enter the hall, take your seats, prepare for the vote. First, I'll make a proposal to Pinzenic. Before the vote, right? I am now voting on amendment 202. So please determine by vote, amendment 202 for confirmation. [[11:02:37]] For-146 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. And I would now like, at the suggestion and request of the chairman of the committee of Victor Valeriusz Halasyuk, to put the vote back to the 22th amendment. Did I put it right? Mrs. Alexander's word, please. Let's go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u66	Colleagues, understanding who today has taken the responsibility of not actually reforming the part of deregulation, is the Change Front and some of the other factions, I would like to ask you to vote for the second reading now. I'm waiting for you next week, every one of us, to work with the ministers again, not your aunts. We're going to show you the consequences and the responsibility, and we're going to take it back to second reading, because the World Bank is expecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u67	Mrs. Alexander, I just want to remind you, we are not yet voting for the law as a whole, we are voting for it. We're voting for a return to the 22 revisions. Please monitor the process. So I put to the vote a return to the vote and a vote for the 22nd amendment. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. Please vote. [[11:04:20]] For-146 So he couldn't go back to looking at the 22nd amendment. We have passed all the proposed amendments and we have a proposal that the committee has made to vote in favour of the law in the second reading and in general, and there is a proposal for a second reading to return to the committee. Let's exchange thoughts on this point and obviously exchange thoughts from factions. Please, for a minute, please, please, Alexander Kugel first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u68	It's probably very revealing when the People's Front, along with the Opposition Block, did not now vote on a bill that touched on reform. But I do hope that the Prime Minister of the task of which we have been carrying out with the Minister of Economics and for the past two months, we have been preparing this bill for the President's Programme, which is now awaiting the World Bank. I think we have an opportunity, and I'm willing to work 24 hours with those who don't understand this bill. I ask to vote it out for a second reading again, for a session in two weeks, and two weeks I wait every one, and am ready to work. And I think both the President and the Prime Minister will help explain the substance of this bill. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u69	Thank you. From Self-Help. We'll make a statement. Please, from the People's Front, Pinzenik, one minute. Peter Dustenka's Block, too, Pinzenic. After a minute, please, first Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support this bill's re-reading and ready to join in its work is the first. The other one. I strongly urge the Fatherland faction representatives to be more correct in their statements. And the third. I forcefully ask the committee that reported on the bill to be more professional, sometimes not even 24 hours a day. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u71	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block, National Deputy Nasirov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u72	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u73	The concept changes. People’s MP Pinzenik is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing my colleague, and I would ask that we take this law seriously. This is one of the good laws. Pretenses can be presented, but this first law, which not only takes a step in deregulation, removes many obstacles to entrepreneurship. This is one of the first laws that not only combats the consequences of corruption but removes its causes. So I'm asking a lot of colleagues, maybe there are some things that need to be fixed. We didn't vote 22 votes to vote, we'll go back to them. But I would ask a colleague not to throw out a child, there's a nice "child," and I'd like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u77	Thank you very much for your position. Jeremiah, please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u78	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, have repeatedly claimed that corruption must be combated. All the help, every license, is bribes to officials in the area, in the district centers. This law must be adopted, and 22 amendments must be adopted. This is proof that we're fighting corruption, because we, on the one hand, are creating a corrupt office, an anti-corruption office, and on the other hand we don't want to cancel the help. So I'm going to all my fellow members of the national MPs, so let's move from a declaration to a specific case. To the Minister. Minister, you represent Europe today, you, as no one, must break the hall to uphold this law. I ask you again, Minister, look here. The minister doesn't speak Ukrainian, he doesn't hear. So, honourable national MPs, the "will of the people" faction voted in favour of this law, we will support it and we will address everyone, please uphold the law, this is a real fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u79	Please, from the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I think there are some drafts in this room that are test papers that are markers. Is the democratic coalition ready, or is the new parliament ready to carry out real deep, non-fake reforms? And that's the law: who's up against corruption, who's up for it. It's a test -- who's against deregulation, who's behind deregulation. And this is a test of loyalty to those ideals that Democrats have stood for many decades in Ukraine. Dear friends! I am convinced that if the Minister of Economics and, in practice, all the people in Parliament, the deputies who have always fought corruption are consistently asking for this law, and part of it is voting, then the Prime Minister faction must support it. Don't split the coalition, be the only ones to reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u81	Thank you. From Self-Help, Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailovna. And we'll finish the discussion. Then the head of the committee and the reporter. Please, Wojcietzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u82	The self-help union unanimously supports this bill, it is totally beneficial to our country, in order to finally start fighting corruption effectively. And we're ready to give our resources, people to work on it, including 22 amendments, so Mrs. Kugel, you have our support. We hope that this law will be passed more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u83	Please, from the Radical Party, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! The Radical Party supports the adoption of this law, we demand real action to eliminate corruption barriers, to eliminate pressure on business, to reduce licenses. We don't have to talk about it. We have to vote. But with 22 amendments in mind, this law will make no sense, so we need to re-read it, and we need to consolidate the will to see who really is in the fight against corruption and who is in the process of preserving the old schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u85	Thank you very much. So, all the factions have spoken, and I'm asking that Alexander Volodymyr, please, I'll give you my word right now, why are you in such a hurry and nervous? I very much ask you to make the final proposal that I should put to the vote. As I understand the room is the only one to be rereading the second reading, but please formulate this proposal in your speech. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u86	First of all, I want to thank the head of the committee and all the members of the committee for their very fruitful work. There were all the coalition representatives and everyone had the opportunity to work. Thank you for your fruitful work. I want to turn to the hall, to your heart, to understand responsibility to entrepreneurs and to the state. You have the minister of the economy, the representative of the government who is responsible for these issues. We worked until 2 p.m. with every authority. And these questions raised by Mr. Pinzenik, who always worked on the oil and gas commission, I understand him, he's an expert. But it's a matter of authority that made the decision not to have a license there. I appeal to all the deputies and to the opposition deputies, there is a simple form and a clear, transparent procedure. Please re-set 22 amendments to the vote. If it does not pass, please vote for the second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u87	Thank you very much. I am. We're listening to Alexandra Kugel. And I'm going to write it carefully again. We'll put it back on if it doesn't come back -- we'll vote for the second reading again. Therefore, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, which will already be decisive under this bill. First of all, I ask you to vote in favour of the 22 amendments to the draft law. Please determine how to vote. Please. [[11:13:38]] For-166 Thank you. Hall wasn't set for a return. And that's why I'm making a head proposal. representative of the committee for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please show by factions. So please prepare for the final vote. It is suggested that the draft Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity (0934) be voted on. Put it down, let's do it. To return the second reading to the committee, to read again. Please vote for the second reading. Please make up your mind, national MPs, please. [[11:14:54]] For 277 Thank you. The next issue of our day - to - day routine is considered. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of business conditions (deregulation) (No. 1580). And once again, the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, is invited to the floor. I'm inviting you to report. And please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u88	I think it would be very honest to report this bill, which we have been drawing out for two months, to the head of the committee. Because I've worked here a lot -- 80 percent -- on the Amendments to the Change Front and their "hotels." And today I have no desire to stand up for them. I'll give it to my head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u89	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the committee, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, your opinion is presented in Bill 1580, the bill on deregulation. Very complicated, one of the most complex bills that has been discussed in the Supreme Council lately. Why is it difficult? Because it refers to amendments to so many laws in Ukraine. It's a powerful deregulation. This is the option that we're presenting today, it's worked together with the Cabinet of Ministers, it's offered to you for consideration. Dear colleagues, he has the right one. It greatly simplifies regulatory pressure on business, it foresees simplification in a series of directions, including agriculture and in a series of other directions. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to respect this bill. I would like to point out that because of the huge number of amendments that are there, I would like to ask the distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies to support this option, which is proposed by the Committee, because this option is fully in line with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ministry of Economics. Because if we start looking for some improvement and stretching it a little bit, we're not going to get the systemic result that we need. If we want to adopt this bill, not to overthrow it, honourable colleagues, I ask you not to insist on unprincipled things and to move on by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u91	Thank you very much, but this bill has also received a huge number of amendments. Many of them are included, but many are not included, and we must also take the hard way in each of the unaccounted for amendments. And that's why I'm inviting the national deputies to a productive job. Please, another line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u92	Mr. Paris, there's an offer. Dear colleagues, I hear suggestions from the hall, and the committee supports this proposal. To put this bill as proposed by the committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u93	Thank you. But I'm afraid it doesn't fit the Rules, and we won't be able to do it. Only.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u94	There's an offer. Mr. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u95	Yes. But as chairman, I have to keep the Rules. I have to ask every deputy whether he insists or not. And that's the only way to do it. That's why I have it. One step at a time, every step of the way. 8th Amendment. People's Deputy Sold. Its amendment was rejected. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 10th, Cooper. Is it insisting? Don't insist. The 11th, People's Deputy Lucenko. Don't insist. 13th, Babak. Don't insist. 15th, Cooper. Don't insist. 21st National Deputy Babak. Don't insist. 23rd, Bird. Don't insist. 26th, Spinov, don't insist. 27th, Lucenka, don't insist. 33rd, Sold, doesn't insist. 34th Cooper, don't insist. 36th, Sold, doesn't insist. 38th, Cooper, don't insist. 39th, Sold, doesn't insist. 40th, Andreyevsky, doesn't insist. 42nd, Sold, doesn't insist. 45th, Spinov, don't insist. 47th, Sold, doesn't insist. 51st, Lucenka, don't insist. 55th, Sold, doesn't insist. 56th, Head, don't insist. 57th, Cooper, partial count. 58th, Lucenka, don't insist. 59th, Captain, does not insist. 60th, Yatzenka, don't insist. 61st, Kulinich, don't insist. 62nd Bird, don't insist. 65th, Lucenka, don't insist. 68th, Kulinich, don't insist. 69th Cooper, don't insist. 70th Bird, don't insist. 84th, Sold, doesn't insist. 87th, Lucenka, don't insist. 97th Cooper, don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u96	Is he insisting? Yeah? Then please, 97th National Deputy Kuprienko. Please give me your word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u97	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. This is about the lease period of the land area.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u98	I've just announced 97 amendments, so be careful, I've announced 97th. Please speak for 97 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u99	This is about the operation of objects. And it would be right to write, not "exploitation," but "involved in the exploitation of such objects." Just as the text of this article refers to objects that are linked to the operation of pipelines and other objects. And the text of the article does not determine whether it is the operation of objects related to the construction of pipelines or the construction of these objects themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u100	Thank you. I beg your pardon, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u101	Dear Oleg Vasilovich, the committee supports the amendment in the comparative table. Because this should apply directly to objects used rather than to objects associated with them. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u102	Thank you. But I understand that the National MP insists on voting. Yeah? He insists on voting. Therefore, I ask you to determine by vote. Who, please vote for the amendment of 97 people's deputies, Kuprienko? Who is responsible for including this amendment in the body of the law, please vote. Please. [[11:23:26]] For-79 The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. And that's why we're moving on. 102th National MP Kuprienko does not insist. 105th National MP Kulinic doesn't insist. 106th National Deputy Sold doesn't insist. 109th National MP Kuprienko doesn't insist. 111th National MP Kulinic doesn't insist. 116th National MP Kuprienko doesn't insist. 120th National MP Lucenko doesn't insist. 116th. 116th National MP Kuprienko insists. And so I ask you to give him your word for your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u103	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear friends, in this definition of "persons of society" we have released an official such as the "Director of the Society" who is in principle in charge of the main activities of the company. They said "head of society", "head of government", "members of government", and "director" forgot. And so the "director" falls out of the list of people who are responsible for violating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u104	Thank you. Please give the committee's head a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we have worked together, including with the legal administration of the Supreme Council. And what I'm saying is that these are the bodies that are supposed to be formed by the Society's established documents. Therefore, there is no fundamental need for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u106	Anyway, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 116th People's Deputies of Kuprienka. I ask you to determine the people's deputies by way of a vote. Turn on the voting system. [[11:25:44]] For-48 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. And so I immediately ask: 119 amendment, National MP Kuprienko, does he insist? No, it doesn't. 122nd National Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 123rd, Spanov. Don't insist. 124th, Cooper. Don't insist. People's deputies, I'm asking you to take your jobs. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs and continue their work. 149th Amendment, National Deputy Kuprienko does not insist. 154th Amendment, the People's Deputy, does not insist. 160th Amendment, National MP Kuprienko does not insist. 161th Amendment, People's Deputy Captain does not insist. 172nd Amendment, National Deputy Kuprienko does not insist. Respectable Society! We still have a huge number of amendments, and we have to go through them. 186th Amendment, National Deputy Kiral does not insist. 187th National MP Voropayev does not insist. 195th National MP Kulinich won't cheer. 199th National Deputy Halasyuk does not insist. 200th National Deputy Yatzenko does not insist. He insists, doesn't he? I'd like to give you the floor to tell the people's deputy, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! And the point is, here's the thing is that the areas of the destination can't be passed on for a term, think about it, less than seven years. So it's going to be the entourage of peasants, and actually this interference in them is said to be property to pass them on for at least 7 years -- it's wrong. So if we're not lobbyists, come on, I'm asking you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! This amendment is very important because the forecast of the minimum lease period of 7 years allows to protect legitimate interests and create not only investment-friendly conditions for business but also for peasants, and this will allow for effective land use, because the land will not be exhausted. For as it will be used not for two years, but for seven years, no one will do the sowing work, the things not to be done. So the committee insists on what's in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u109	I ask the National Deputies to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. You know, on TV and on the air, we can talk a lot about compliance, and we can talk about working in the room according to the rules. It's a lot harder to live up to. Now we go and we work by the book, and by the law, and so please be careful, and vote for the amendments that the authors insist on. The vote is therefore supported by amendment 200. And I'm asking the people's deputies to determine how to vote. Please include the vote. [[11:30:19]] For-52 The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Have your author take any correction and pass it on to you. She's gone, she's gone, Oleg Valeriyovich. People's deputies, first of all, I'd like everyone to sit down to work, please. Secondly, Oleg Valeriyovich and all the other deputies, now any of your deputies who have an amendment take the floor, pass it on to you, and you express your opinion. There's no need to break the rules without any need. So once again, I would like to ask the national deputies to return to their jobs and continue their work. So Amendment 204, National Deputy Kiral, does not insist. Amendment 208, Andreyevsky People's Deputy. Don't insist. Amendment 224, Andreyevsky’s national deputy, does not insist. Amendment 227, Andreyevsky’s national deputy, does not insist. Amendment 238, People's Deputy Danchenko, does not insist. Amendment 241, national deputy Zagorius, does not insist. 245th Amendment, People's Deputy of Semimenach, does not insist. The 250th Amendment, National Deputy Danchenko, does not insist. 255th Amendment, National Deputy Romanov, does not insist. 263, People's Deputy Papiev, does not insist. He insists, Papiev, doesn't he? Don't insist. 267th National Deputy Sold doesn't insist. 269, insist on confirming this amendment, please give your word to whom? Please give me your word for reasons. Igor Alekseus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! The request for confirmation of the 269th amendment, which was included, is the government's proposal to set up services, ask it to support it, and in the first reading, go back to this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u111	Please, the head of the committee, the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u112	Colleagues, the position of the committee is this amendment to take into account, but I think the motivation of the Ministry of Justice has arguments. If the Cabinet of Ministers is going to set both the size of the pay and the order of the services, I think you can agree to that, so please put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u113	Thank you. So, national MPs, please take up jobs, get ready for the vote. We're putting to the vote the 269th amendment of People's Deputy Halasyuk for confirmation. Please determine how to vote. Please. [[11:34:19]] For-74. Thus, the amendment for confirmation was not confirmed. Next amendment 274, People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 280 – Captain. Don't insist. 287 – Sold. Don't insist. 291 – Europe. Don't insist. 293 – The boy. Don't insist. 298 – Boyfriend. Don't insist. 299– Sold. Don't insist. 300– Sold. Don't insist. 308 - Kuprienka. Don't insist. 310 – Kulinich. Don't insist. 311 – Birds. Don't insist. 318 – Kulinich. Don't insist. 322 – Birds. Don't insist. 323 – Birds. Don't insist. 329 – Voropeyev. Don't insist. 332 – Sažko. Don't insist. 341 – Sold. Don't insist. 346 – Sold. Don't insist. 354 – Sold. Don't insist. 356 – Sold. Don't insist. 361 – Sold. Don't insist. 364 - Halasyuk. I urge you to give my word to justify your position to Igor Alekseus. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u114	Dear Chairman, ask for confirmation of amendment 364, 365, 366 and 367. In his previous speech, the committee head, in principle, supported the idea of justifying the provision of services and their payment. His statement suggests that he generally supports this concept. So the request to put these four confirmations so that we can go back to the editor of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u115	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, well, you see that these amendments were taken into account by the committee, so that's the position of the committee. But at the same time, if we put an alternative position on the ground, nothing catastrophic is going to happen. It's just, let's say, an alternative approach to regulation. That's why I'm asking you to identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u117	Thank you. So I'm going to put it to a vote every step of the way, every time I make an amendment, and every time I do, I'm going to put it to a vote, and every deputy is going to be defined. First. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number 364. People's deputy galasjuk. Please determine how to vote. Please turn on the board. [[11:38:11]] For-53 The amendment was not supported. I'll bet you an amendment: 365, the People's Deputy Sold. Please determine how to vote. Please. [[11:38:37]] For-60 I didn't get the required number of votes. 366 amendment, National Deputy Siroid. I'll bet the vote on confirmation. Please. [[11:38:59]] For-56 Thank you. I didn't get the required number of votes. And the last thing the National MP insisted on was the 367th amendment of the People's Deputy Pinzenic. Please vote to confirm this amendment. Please determine by vote, please. [[11:39:28]] For-74. Next 370, People's Deputy Pinzenik. Don't insist. 373, National Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 374th People's Deputy Pinzenic. Don't insist. 376th National MP. 375th People's Deputy Sold. Don't insist. 376th National Deputy Halasyuk. Don't insist. 376! 376 insists on confirmation. And the word is given to the national MP Alexei. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u118	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u119	A. Storobubu. Excuse me. I'd like to give Storobu a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman! So here we don't see in the correlation table whether this amendment is included, but we see that the changed text. It regulates the time frame for the submission of the implementing document and clears the 10-day deadline provided for by law. I see no reason to take this amendment into account and ask that it be put to the vote. And I would also like to ask for confirmation on a step amendment that relates to the same article, which specifies when a enforcement order is to be issued. 377th. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u121	Thank you. May I have a word for the committee's head?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this amendment has been taken into account, but once again, if this is a fundamental question for our faction colleagues, I ask the room to identify itself. For our coalition colleagues, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Thus, amendment 376 of the Galasyuk People’s Deputy is put to the vote. Please decide how to vote. Please. [[11:41:57]] For-72 Thank you. The question did not get the required number of votes. Now, likewise, the amendment of the 377 people's deputies of Galasjuk. It's on the vote, it's on the vote. Please. Turn the line? Please, a replica for the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this is a very correction, I ask you to support it, because it indicates that the executive congregation is attracted exclusively in proportion to the amount actually. The requirements of the retractor. So if it doesn't have the full sum, it doesn't have the full amount. The full payment of this. That's the sum. So, Your Honor, please support this amendment, 377th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u125	So I would like to stress that the Hall of Understanding is concerned with the confirmation that the position of the committee head in order for this amendment to be taken into account must be voted in favour of confirmation. And so I ask you to determine how to vote, the people's deputies. Please turn on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, please support. [[11:43:08]] For-96
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u127	Unfortunately, the required number of votes was not reached. 378th. There are no warnings after the 378th amendment. 379th, Pinzenic, does not insist. The 380s, Pinzenic, don't insist. The 386th, Andryevsky, does not insist. 389th, Andreyevsky, does not insist. There's not much left, national MPs. The 396th, Andreyevsky, does not insist. What's that? Oh, I'm sorry. 381 screaming from the hall, I didn't hear it. Next time you have to shout louder and more persistently. 381 amendments, who's going to be after it? Please, Storobubu. Storobuku is a word for speech, 381 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the amendment provides for the deletion of article 46 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, which provides for the remuneration of the State's executive. Generally speaking, for today’s day, government executives receive the minimum wage of a thousand and two hundred dollars! They had a reward, and this amendment cancels it at all. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u129	Please, head of the committee, replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, please pay particular attention to this amendment. It needs to be confirmed why. Because a government executive is the same government official as any other. Thus, his wages and all the rewards are governed by the corresponding Law on State Service. In the near future, a new law on public service will be introduced. Therefore, respected colleagues, this profession, is no more special and better than other civil servants. So I ask you very much to support this amendment, the position of the committee, to confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u131	Thank you very much. So I'm going to put it to a vote. And once again, I would like to emphasize that no one should be confused about how we vote. An amendment shall be made for confirmation. That means if you support the committee head, that she should be in law, we vote in favour. I'm betting on confirmation of 381 amendments to the People's Deputy Pinzenic. Please decide how to vote. Please turn on the vote. [[11:45:59]] For 124 No votes were found to confirm the amendment. The next 399, Andreyevsky's national deputy, does not insist. 403, Kulinich doesn't insist. 405, Storob doesn't insist. 410, Lucenko doesn't insist. There's not much left. 431th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. 436th National Deputy Sotnik. He does not insist on being absent. 437. Vadaturski. Don't insist. 439th, Captain. Don't insist. 441, Vadatursky. Don't insist. 442, People's Deputy Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 444, Andreyevsky People's Deputy. Don't insist. 445th Andreyevsky People's Deputy. Don't insist. 448, National Deputy Velickovic. Don't insist. 449, National Deputy Halasyuk. Don't insist. And so. There are 372 amendments. I emphasize that there is a legal colossal that we need to correct. I would like to give the floor to the national deputy Storobuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u132	Alexei's. Alexei's.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u133	Please tell Alexei. He will have a basis for this position. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the request also to make 372 amendments for confirmation and to return to the editorial that was proposed by the government in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u135	Please, head of the committee, replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the committee supports its previous position on taking this amendment into account. Therefore, please support the committee’s position on its consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u137	So I ask you to vote for the amendment. Do I get it right? That's right, yeah. So once again, we're voting for confirmation, 372 amendments. Whoever supports and supports this amendment, please determine by vote. Please vote. [[11:49:06]] For 118 Thank you. I didn't get the required number of votes. And I would like to give the floor to the tens and hundreds of amendments that have been made to the bill, the People's Chamber of Commerce. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Ministry of Economics, the Minister of Economics and his team, the Committee on Profiles, the Head, Mr. Victor's Halasyuk, and Alexander Volodymyrni Kugel for this bill and for the previous licensing. In fact, the right projects are two and very well prepared on the committee, and you and I could make a revolution today really in the economy of Ukraine, and do what people require and expect. Unfortunately, the previous bill, like this bill, divided the deputies into two parts: those who plan to live in Ukraine and those who do not plan. Therefore, in view of the fact that some of the amendments taken into account by the committee that were correct have not been confirmed in the Hall today, I propose that the chairman reread the bill. Because the way this bill is now, it's providing corruption again, it's allowing us to abuse administrative services, and you and I don't work here. I very much ask everyone who matters to join in the second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u139	Let me finish, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u140	And I ask the chairman to re-read this bill, and we will need it, and we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Please take the position of head of the committee. Attention! Listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! I want to thank all the members of the committee for their fruitful work, the Ministry of Economics, everyone, without exception, the factions of the coalition, including the factions of the People's Front. And I would like to apologize for the little emotional response of my deputy under the previous law. Dear colleagues, I think we need now, taking into account the amendments that we have made, to adopt Law 1580 as a law as a whole in order not to delay deregulation, because this will allow for an improvement in the situation of Ukraine by the "Doing business" rating. This is important for our Cabinet of Ministers in talks with international partners. Dear colleagues! Please support this position of the committee. Thank you! The proposal to uphold the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u143	Even if we didn't find confirmation of the amendment, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u144	Yes, we regulate, and then we pass additional laws. And I think it's very important to have consensus and to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u145	Head of the committee, of course. Please, Minister of Economy Ivaras Abromavichus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u146	Thank you so much for your work! It took two months to adopt this law in the context of military and economic aggression and the limited financial capacity of the State to support entrepreneurship. Deregulation is a very strong and almost the only tool to start understanding the economy and to use it in general. Therefore, I understand the position of some deputies, but still the position of the Ministry, it is the same as the committee heads to support the bill as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u147	Thank you, Minister! Dear fellow national MPs! A really important bill, and perhaps even if they did not find their confirmation of the amendments that had just been voted in the Supreme Council Hall, it would be appropriate today to adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. During the revision of Law 0934, which you sent for rereading, you might need to look at and make changes to that law. But it's better to do than not do anything at all. So I think that was absolutely appropriate, and all we need to do is work out, and what Oksana Prodan said, and what other MPs said, we can do in the process of processing. So I would ask all the national MPs to take their seats right now, and let's vote in the second reading and in general, and those amendments separately, and we'll work on them to improve this bill, not make it worse. Do you have a deal? Thank you! I think this is going to be a completely objective position. Therefore, your consideration is put to the vote in the second reading and in general. Attention, fellow nationals! Bill (Registration No. 1580), draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of business conditions, i.e. deregulation. The first law of the minister, we supported him on the first reading, I think there's a point to that right now. Therefore, it is suggested that the draft law be adopted in a second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. [[11:54:22]] For 260 Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to emphasize once again, I'd like to work out everything that's necessary, the Ministry, the Committee of Profiles, with Mrs. Oksana, what were the proposals. After that amendment, we'll take a walk, we'll talk, I think we'll be able to make compromise decisions. Thank you, fellow national MPs. We have a six-minute break, and we have an important law enforcement bill. Perhaps we should consider it at 12: 30 a.m. to consider it very carefully. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you at 12:30, please be in the hall, we will continue our work and we will consider a bill on reforming the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you, Your Honor. A break is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and take up jobs to continue our difficult and necessary work for the country. And now I'm reviewing the draft Law (1550). Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov is present in the hall. There is a request from the committee, from the committee head, that we consider this issue, and it is discussed in a second reading. So I'm looking at a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reforming internal affairs, draft law (1550). The report invites the head of the committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u149	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, draft of the Ukrainian Amendment Act. Ukraine's draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the reform of internal affairs bodies is a bill (No. 1550). If you recall, he was reported a week ago by the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Eka Zguladze. At the same time, the Supreme Council had decided to prepare the draft bill for the second reading of the shortened procedure that the committee had done. Moreover, proposals and amendments to the project have been made. They came, but not so much. Let's go. 11 offers and 2 of which are included. Thus, two proposals by the National Deputy, Stotnik, are taken into account: the Self-Help faction for leaving the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs by listening to the Minister of Internal Affairs every year on the status of the fight against organized crime; and, according to the Parliament's professional committee, the right to hear the Minister once every six months on the legality and justification of the use in the fight against organized crime of special technical means, etc. At the same time, the proposals and amendments of the national deputies are taken into account, you will see the table, but they are not included, because some of them have already been included in the previous amendments, while others conflict with article 116 of the Rules. the Law on the Rules. Colleagues, in the course of the second reading of this bill yesterday, there were those people on the committee -- veterans of internal affairs, who in their own time led and created the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime. Indeed, this bill is quite, I'll call it, a former reformist one, because it starts optimizing the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And a lot of the officers in this unit were saying that they wouldn't lose their ability to work on these issues. And I'm addressing Mr. Habakkuk's Home Secretary. Arsen Borisovich, if possible, on behalf of members of the committee and co-workers of the IMF: all the decent and honest officers who worked at the General Directorate of Anti-Corruption, who at one time in the 1990s accepted the challenge of crime against themselves, so that they remain and are integrated into the units of special purpose created by the Ministry of Justice under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u150	Thank you for the report, Andry Anatolyovich. As amended, we'll be going through it now. But once again, I want the factions' heads to invite MPs into the hall so that we can work full-time. It's an extremely important bill, it's a reform of one of the deepest, preparations for reforms in the IMF. And so I'm asking you to leave the towers, take jobs, focus on voting. And now we're going to go through every amendment that's made to the national MPs during the consideration of the draft law for second reading. All right. Well, I just invited you. Thank you. So amendment number two, national deputy Lensky. She's been rejected by the committee. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u151	And the first and the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u152	Well, first and second accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u153	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u154	Yes, number one, number two is not included and there is no insistence. 3rd Amendment, National Deputy Gordjeev. Don't insist. 5th National Deputy Gordjeev. The committee turned it down. Is the MP insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u155	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, the point is that the deputies who made these amendments before. The last, they cannot insist, because they have been introduced in violation of article 116. So all the other ones that were needed are accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u156	Andriy Anatoliyovich, the procedure defined by the Rules, will take almost 2-3 minutes. I'll name every one. He won't insist. And so let's do it as prescribed by the rules. So the 6th amendment of Gordjeev. Don't insist. 7th Gordieeva. Don't insist. 8th People's Deputies of Gordjeyev. Don't insist. 9th People's Deputies of Gordjeyev. Don't insist. So we've considered all of the amendments that were tabled by the people's deputies to the bill. All I care about is that there may not be enough deputies in the room. And so, with your permission, I'll give you a minute to speak first to Interior Minister Arsen Borisovich. And then we're going to go to the vote. All right, I'll give another performance. But I'm sure we'll give it to the minister first, and then I'll give you one minute. Then we'll go to the vote. Arsen Borisovich, may I have a word with you on the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you for your cooperation with the committee. We have accordingly made all the amendments, and we have accepted those that are now being made. Please be supportive. I want to say the following about the restructuring of HlV, which is causing a lot of controversy here. We have a desire that every U.S. official who really fights and fights banditry, finds himself in a criminal cell, a criminal investigation -- back to where he came from. They'll be fine, don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you for your work, for your professional work. And now we'll give it to you. Society! I very much ask you not to insist on voting now, some of our colleagues are in the meeting and it will be right if we wait for them, including the leader of your faction, so that she can give her voice. So I'm asking that we step out of factions in a minute. Are they coming? Yeah? Are they coming? Yeah? Yuri Vitaliovich, is everybody okay? Let's just wait literally for one minute. I'm asking you to give me a minute. Please give the word to Gordie, for one minute, for the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u159	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! Andrew Gordjeev, Hersonian. I'd like to draw attention to the technical amendments that we've made to the collective because in this case, the bill is designed to eliminate an organ such as the fight against organized crime. At the same time, in the current drafting of the bill, which we are already given to vote on, there are technical errors in the sense that. Colleagues, in the sense that no one has been assigned to investigate these crimes. And the whole point of my amendment was to technically write out, literately, that's what the IMF would do. In the text that's already been given to us today, taking into account all the comments, it's taken into account, but it's just that the committee needs to answer more correctly that they are counted textually, editorially, rather than simply reject. So in support of the idea itself, please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u160	Thank you. Thank you. From the Radical Party of Mosiyczuk, Igor Mosiyczuk Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u161	I think that the colleague's speech was just really not right, and there's already lobbyists running around the hall for the preservation of AIDS. I think we need to support the minister and the ministry in reforming, because the preservation of the entire organization is not just the people who fought banditry, but also the ones who broke markets in Kiev and other big cities, they're the ones who didn't expose crimes, they're the ones who did them. That's why there's someone to expose crimes, there's a search warrant. And that's where the functions of HlV will be transferred. The committee supported this law virtually unanimously. So I ask everyone in the room to concentrate and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u162	Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute. From the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u163	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We're looking at the first law that starts to change the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, we have an inheritance from the Ministry of the Police, not the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, there are still major reforms that have been announced by today’s minister, Habakkuk. Of course, we'll still be doing the National Police, the National Guard, the Migration Service, other units, as central executive authorities. Today, it is proposed that the units remaining in the IMF be deprived of extra status. Now I'm speaking first of all for those operas by the U.I.A. that are excited about the elimination of my unit. I just want to say a simple thing. WHO was famous, heroic, and victorious when he was the Sixth Administration of Criminal Investigation. And when he, when his leadership, achieved untold benefits in the form of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u164	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u165	Unheard of benefits in the form of a special first trap, their wires, their headphones, their other benefits, unfortunately, the opera has defeated the bandits, and the generals of the U.B.I. have taken their place. So today, the right law that will keep the labor inside the detention unit, but remove the dualism of two orders and two militias within one militia. In 2006, I tried to do it. I was even violated for refusing to comply with this idiocy law to create a special militia inside the police force. Today, Habakkuk’s proposal is to save operas. But getting the extra ponta out of the generals is the right thing to do. I'd like to vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u166	Thank you. From the People's Front, Anton Gerashchenko, please go to the rostrum. Then there's Nichiporenko. And this concludes the discussion and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u167	Dear Leader! Deputies! Last night, our profile committee was looking at this issue. We were visited by a general, a respectable person who created the UBO in 1993. He said a few things, and after that, everyone finally disappeared the question of whether or not the WHO needs to be reorganized. He said that when there were gangs in 1993, and I was commissioned to make a strong body to put the bandits in place, I did. And I've had over a thousand and a half people who've moved out of criminal search from other structures. Then he took the word of Yuri Vitaliyovich and said, and in 2005, I had 12 thousand people working with the poor. Now it's between 7 and 8 thousand. And now I want to say the same thing. We will fight organized crime, and all those working on the front of the crime scene will work. We're removing the administrative chain, where so many people have come at all to fight accessibility. Thank you for your time. And I ask you to uphold this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u168	Thank you. National MP Nichiporenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u169	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, there's been a lot of talk in this room about reforms. And finally we see the first law and the first reform that will work really. You know, extermination of organs like veterinary police, transport, AIDS, that I see, really, really reform. The only thing I would like to recommend to other ministries and other ministers is to start real reforms that will have practical consequences. Of course, we will also support this bill. Thank you. And thank you to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u170	Thank you. People's deputy, Olena Sotnik, is invited to the floor by self-help. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the committee for its fruitful work and for its amendments. But I want to say that this bill is just the first but very important step in reforming Ukraine's internal affairs. And I'm going to take this opportunity and I'm going to invite the Minister of Interior, and he knows very well that there are now two bills in the Supreme Council for conceptual police reform in Ukraine. I invite the Minister of the Interior, along with the deputies, to draft a single bill and to bring it into this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u172	Thank you. And the last performance is Levchenko, Ukrainian national deputy. Please turn on the microphone. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u173	Leuchenko, Freedom. Of course, the bill is very important, of course, and we have to cancel these corruption elements, as we do, unfortunately, are still present at the IMF, and we will vote for it. I would just like to point out to the coalition that there is another violation of the Rules. When you break the Rules, you do not have the opportunity or the ability of others to properly work on good bills, but unfortunately, they contain a lot of mistakes. And that's because we actually didn't have the right to consider it sooner than tomorrow, because it didn't take another 7 days to amend it. However, you and the Rules are breaking and entering. The result is, for example, that you haven't noticed that even though you're cutting the units, but you're not cutting down the control apparatus of the decommissioned units, it's going to stay. And whatever you pay attention to, budget funding remains. Nor did you prescribe specific newly created units and pass it all on to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and this is also a certain corruption factor. So if you're in such a hurry and you're not doing the bills properly, I'd ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u174	Thank you, Your Honor. Although the second reading procedure does not foresee statements from factions, I think it's an important bill and it's a good thing that everyone has said, including non-fractional national MPs. And there is no doubt that this is an important, impeccable bill to be adopted to strengthen our security system and to restore trust in it accordingly. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to take their seats, and we're about to go to a 1550 vote on second reading as a whole. Therefore, please, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, prepare for the vote, a bill has been tabled for your vote (registration No. 1550), a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reforming internal affairs, in a second reading. The proposal to accept in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support this bill in the second reading and in general, please support, please support. [[Applause]] [[12:57:12]] For 288 We wish the Ministry of Internal Affairs success! Please, Arsen Borisovich, we're working on it! Please, Minister Habakkuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u175	I want to thank Parliament for this first step on the path of reform. There's going to be a project on the National Police, I'm sure of it, and we're going to reach out to you, we're going to agree, there's going to be a consensus, and there's not going to be another project, and I want us to do it all in the spring. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u176	Dear National Deputies! The bill (No. 1552), the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes, is being submitted to your consideration. Please report to the head of the profiling committee, Andrew Cosemyakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u177	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Volodymyr Borisovich, I'd like us to stick to the Rules and not violate it, because you know, precedents are created in us all the time, and discipline is "stood." If we are allowed to look at the second reading today and give the word to the MPs, it is wrong, and if they can't get together, let's include music to make some pause kill, do something, but break the Rules wrong is the first. The other one. Your point is to consider a second reading of the draft Law (No. 1552) amending the Criminal Code to increase liability for individual war crimes prepared by the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection to second reading. The bill proposes to amend articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine by establishing a stricter responsibility for war crimes as provided for in the articles of the Criminal Code if they are not only committed under martial law but also under special conditions. The committee considered the comparative table twice before the bill. First time on 27.01, after the extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council, the second time on 4.02. The committee thus reviewed its decision of the 27th meeting of 4.02 this year, taking into account the proposals made by the National MP, Stotnik. Such a decision by the committee proved correct, since today the bill is being drafted by the legal authorities without any notice. In general, 23 proposals came to the bill, of which 19 are proposed to be taken into account and 4 rejected. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. If there are no comments to the committee's rejected proposals, and this is proposals 1, 2, 3 and 16, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor. We heard from the chairman of the committee that there are 23 amendments, 19 of which are included. We don't have a count, the first amendment rejected, the national deputy Vinnik. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Another repair. People's MP, Golovajev. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Third. Tree tree. Don't insist. So we've got all the adjustments taken into account, but not counted, they don't insist. If there is no objection, dear colleagues. There's also a Lensky national MP, a 16th amendment that's rejected, but also doesn't insist on what I understand. So there's an offer, dear colleagues, to take your seats in the hall. There is a proposal to vote in second reading and in general this bill. Please, dear fellows. Stop, stop. Dear colleagues, we have a 15-minute recess, Your Honor! 15-minute break. We continue our work at 1:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Take your seats and give me a minute of your attention. Dear colleagues, I think I'm going to express the opinion of most of the people in this room, as soon as I've been informed, and you know that there's been a fight in the towers between the two deputies, and it's tough. And this is absolutely unacceptable in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. I think most of the people here will support this, there might be any discussion, there might be different points of view, but stretching each other's hands is unacceptable, I'm underlining that. And I would like to be among us in this room, apart from the law, except for the Constitution and the Rules, to make a code of conduct for the People's Deputies of Ukraine in the eighth vocation, a code of conduct for the People's Deputies of Ukraine in the eighth vocation, so that everyone knows what they can and cannot do. And everyone has to sign it. So I have an offer and I insist. At 2 o'clock, we're gonna have a break. I insist that the regulatory committee gather. [[B in m in s a l in]] Appropriately, I made an offer. I'll give my word to everyone. Please sit down, I beg of you. What you stand for doesn't add. Please, and let's calm down. To make a decision, I insist that, within the framework of the Rules, these two national deputies be deprived of their right to participate in the five plenary sessions. This will be shown, it will be fair, and it will be objective, so that no one will be able to do so in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. I won't let that happen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I emphasize that this is objectivity. So I'm giving this assignment, we have nothing to talk about right now. Let's go, everybody. Who, let the factions go to the regulatory committee and let them handle it. And make an agreed offer. First deputy head of the Regulatory Committee, give him a minute. And we're going to continue to look at the issues of the agenda. If anyone wants to fight, on the front! Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u180	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The regular committee held such a brief meeting in the Plenary Hall. And frankly, there's no particular need to bring this up. If there is the will of the session room, we would like to immediately vote on a very simple decision: to deny the right to attend plenary meetings during five calendars. [[B in m in s a l in]] During the five plenary meetings of the national deputies Sobolev and Ivchenk. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u181	Colleagues, calm down, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please! There are two reactions: the first is what the First Vice-President of the Regulatory Committee said, and I support that, and we're going to vote on that now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. Five days. Please, sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please sit in your seats and let us be with you. I emphasize that you sit in your seats! Take your seats! Calm down! Calm down, please! You'll be yelling at a political party. Please have a seat. Or sit down. Please, Oleg Berezuk of Self-Help, because this concerns a member of their faction. Please. Everybody take your seats! What are you doing assembling? What's that for? Have a seat. And calm down, let's talk. What are you doing with your emotions? All of it! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u182	Dear National Deputies! As the head of the faction, I want to apologize for the absolutely non-parliamentary behavior that took place today in the hall. Whatever the reason, and it will always be found in men and will be objective, this would not have happened in the Parliamentary Hall and in the spheres of Parliament. I agree, ladies and gentlemen, that for such conduct the national deputies of any factions must be held accountable. But there are people in this room who are supposed to be in prison, and we tolerate that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! And so I'm going to try to get a regulatory committee that doesn't have a head and that tolerates all the regulatory violations that are in this room, and I'm going to sit down right now, and I'm going to prepare a quality bill, and I'm going to pick a head, and I'm going to make a quality case for Ukraine and Parliament. Once again, I'll ask you all to hear it. As the head of the faction (hope the faction will support me) I apologize for the non-parliamentary behavior of our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u183	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, you know, we accept apologies as a faction. I don't know if he'll accept an apology from a colleague who's been brutally beaten. And essentially the question is, let's not confuse two things. If we're in this session room, bringing 5-6 people together, taking them into the community, beating them up, and then two national deputies taking out the five seats -- it's not right, it's not fair, it's not ethical. So my proposal is, we agreed to it in faction, thank God, that there are all the videos of what happened in the morning and then at lunch. Please refer all materials to the regulatory committee, see them on the regulatory committee at the committee meeting, and then transmit them to: (a) To the prosecutor's office, so no one else would want to do that after that. Secondly, make a decision and offer it to the session room. And for the future, please name the deputies not only by name, but also by name. My name is Sergei Sobolev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u185	It was the deputy from the Self-Help faction of Egor Sobolev, and it's true. Colleagues, you know, I think we should listen after. [[Noise Nodes]] Calm down. Listen, colleagues, just a minute. What are we doing now? Clownada? We're normal with you, civilized people. Well, it was an accident. Let's talk about it. What are we yelling, whistling? What are you talking about? It's nothing. That's why there's a self-help position. We heard it. There's the "Fatherland" position, we heard it. Now it's going to be the People's Front position, but I'd like to ask, colleagues, this is what I'm talking about right now. There was an offer from Fatherland: to collect materials, to be sent to the regulatory committee. Please ask all factions to take part in this meeting, to make one decision, and to go out with it as agreed. Don't let it get us into trouble. But I believe that personal responsibility must be applied to violators, hard violators of it. The rules we have. But I'm going to insist on that. I'm going to insist that there be a code of conduct for the people's deputies in the Supreme Council Hall, and that's going to be fundamentally important when everyone signs what he understands, what he can and can't do, what he can do is separate from what he's breaking the law. All of it. I don't want to blame anyone. I was talking about the fact that happened. There's video evidence, there's everything else. We'll figure it out. Let us make suggestions, including those made by law enforcement agencies, so that no one will be harmed. I'm going to the factions, stop it. I'd like that. And we're not talking about that anymore. Let us now consider further matters of the order of the day. Take your seats, please. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we have stopped with you on the bill, Andrew Kožemiakin, 1552. Thank you for understanding, colleagues. I understand everyone wants to say something, but I am very grateful. 1552, by the way, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes. We looked at it, it was 23 amendments. 19 is considered by the committee. And those who have been rejected have not found the need for their confirmation. So I would ask the honourable national deputies to take their seats in order to vote this important bill as a basis and in general, more faithfully, in the second reading and in general. Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes (registration No. 1552). Please, calm down, please. Because when it's too loud, it's hard to work easy. Please, I ask you to vote 1552 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[13:25:50]] For 245. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. 245, decision taken. Your next bill is submitted, registration number 1534. Draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine regarding the location of the discovery of an inheritance. 1534 — reports a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, Dmitry Sphenov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u186	Yesterday, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice discussed in its session Bill 1534 amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the location of the second reading of the inheritance. The bill was adopted as a basis of 3.02. 15 with short notice. The essence of the bill is to simplify the formulation of inheritance rights and to make them without attachment to the place where the heirs reside. The main point on the profile committee and in the session room was that the law should apply only to persons residing in temporarily occupied territories and the area of antiterrorist operations. All revisions to the second reading refer to this idea. A total of 18 amendments were made. Copy that. Including partially and editorially 5, and 5 are rejected. The Civil Code, articles of the Civil Code, remained in force. It has only been added that in special cases the location of the discovery of an inheritance is established by law. All other changes have been transposed into special laws on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the legal regime in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory and on temporary measures for the duration of the anti-terror operation. The law is very timely and needed by society. More than 800 applications from internally displaced persons for an inheritance are now being made by Minust. The bill was unanimously supported by the committee yesterday. And I call on the hall to support and simplify the inheritance procedure for those who live in the temporarily occupied territory and in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u187	Thank you for the report. Let's move on to the amendments. And I ask that we walk through every one that has been rejected. So the 2nd Amendment, the Lensky People's Deputy. Declined by the committee. Is the National MP insisting on the amendment? Don't insist. Third Deputy of the People's Republic of Belkova. Don't insist. Don't insist, yes, I felt the answer. Amendment 12, People's Deputies. Do not force the amendment to the vote. Amendment 13, People's Deputies, Helen Sotnik. He insists on taking into account the amendment. And so please give her the floor for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I just want to pay your attention. An editorial that is not accepted in this case, my editor, it leads to the fact that another amendment has not been adopted, which leads to the logic of a dead inheritance, that, for example, if a dead inheritance is recognized in the territory of the Donetsk region, ownership of it will be acquired by the local authority in which the inheritance will be claimed. So actually, for example. The Lviv region will acquire a deadly legacy in the Donetsk region. It doesn't make sense. It's nonsense, you know? So you have to look at these standards. And for example, my 12th, 13th amendment, and then Amendment 18, they're taking this particular thing into account and I'm asking you to support it, because otherwise we're losing the logic of a dead inheritance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u189	Thank you. I would like to give you the floor to explain to the committee's head, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u190	Thank you very much. I'm not the head of the committee. The amendment was indeed rejected yesterday at the meeting. And a colleague of Deputies, Sotnik, was present at this moment. I wish to say that, according to the general concept of change, only those living in the occupied and the ATO area are concerned. Data. More changes were made net, and the amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u191	Thank you. So now I'm going to put to the vote amendment number 13 of People's Deputies. I ask you to prepare for the vote, to support your colleague. So please determine how to vote in favour of Amendment No. 13 of the Sotnik People's Deputies. Please vote, please support. [[13:30:57]] For the 120th. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, regardless of the support of the entire presidency. And we're moving on to Amendment 17, People's Deputy Sotnik. Or insists.? Mrs. Helen, are you insisting on 17 amendments? Don't insist. Don't insist, thank you very much. So, so we've gone through all the amendments that were made by the people's deputies in the interval between the first and second readings, and so we can put the vote on Bill 1534 in the second reading and in the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats for the bill (registration number 1534) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the location of the inheritance. There is a proposal for a committee and conclusions to be adopted in a second reading and in general a bill. And it is this proposal that the vote be adopted in the second reading and in general the bill (registration number 1534). Vote please, distinguished national MPs! 1534 in second reading and in general. [[13:32:32]] For 246 We're here. 246. Well done! Thank you, distinguished national MPs! Next question. You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for war crimes), (register No. 1849), second reading. Reported to the head of the profile committee, Andrew Kožemyakin. Please, Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u193	Honourable Head, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, Honorable Attendants! Your point is to consider, in a second reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law (No. 1849) amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for war crimes). The bill was introduced by the People’s Deputies Vinnik and Pashinsky. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis, shortening the deadline for the submission of comments and proposals by subjects of the legislative initiative, by half, by 7 days. The bill received 14 suggestions and amendments, 7 of which are proposed to be taken into account and 7 are proposed. It's number one, number two, three, six, seven, nine, 14. All the others, and these are the amendments under 4, 5, 8. 10, 11, 12. 13 is proposed to be rejected as contradicting essentially the amendments that are proposed to be taken into account. The committee therefore proposes article 426-1 of the Criminal Code to be redrafted. In fact, it is suggested that a military official or a ministerial authority should be able to understand not only the use of violence against a subordinate but also the exercise of such acts as the excess of disciplinary authority, the use of arbitrary influences, other excesses of authority or official authority. That is, overcoming military authority or official authority is not only a person’s degree of gravity of bodily harm but also the other actions that go beyond the authority of such a military official. In addition, the Committee proposes to exclude the addition of Chapter 41-1 of the CPC to Chapter 41-1 "The Speciality of Criminal Conduct in the Conditions of Military Emergency, Special Period or in the Area of Anti-Terrorism Operation", since the commander of the military unit or association, the head of military educational institutions, military institutions and organizations cannot carry out investigations and searches and not public investigations. In order to do so, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to the Act on Operational and Search Activities and to the Ukrainian KPC. In addition, this position is fully supported by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. If there are no comments on the amendments rejected by the committee, please support the committee’s decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u194	Thank you. Let's go with the procedure, as amended. Amendment number one. People's MP, Palamarczuk. Is there no objection? Ah, it's counted, isn't it? Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, we voted on this bill in the first reading as a basis. And I would like to refer to Rule 116 of the Rules to say that we cannot change the content, purpose and principles of the bill until we read the second reading. Among other things, the committee made good use of the reference to this article when considering amendments to Bill 1550 on police reform. But for some reason, he is now proposing another interpretation of this article. I would like to point out that the bill that we are preparing for the second reading today is called the Criminal and Procedural Amendments. Instead, all changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, which is actually two thirds of the law, were deleted by amendments 1, 6, 7, 9. Therefore, I ask the chairman to submit amendments 1, 6, 7, 9 for confirmation because they actually change the purpose, content and principles of this bill, which is not provided for in preparation for second reading, referring to article 116 of the Ukrainian Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u196	Thank you. First amendment. There's an offer, put it on the stand. Colleagues, I would like to ask you to concentrate on the vote, there's a proposal by the People's Deputy Winnick to confirm the amendment that is considered by the committee. It's counted for confirmation. Please, colleagues, determine by vote on confirmation. The position of the committee to confirm the proposal of the author of the bill is different. Please confirm this amendment. [[13:38:20]] For-99 Not confirmed. Thank you. Another repair. No comments are made on the second amendment. The third amendment taken into account by the committee is not denied either. Fourth, National Deputy Captain, dismissed, do you insist? Don't insist. The fifth amendment, rejected, national deputy Sotnik, does not insist. Sixth amendment, for confirmation. The sixth amendment is a proposal, the national MP Vinnik for confirmation. I get it. Six for confirmation, right? Please. Please put to the vote to confirm Amendment 6, National Deputy Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. As far as confirmation is concerned, it is taken into account, but the authors of the law deny it. Therefore, there is a proposal to confirm the amendment. [[13:39:45]] For-72 The decision is not taken. The Committee's amendment has not been confirmed. 7 amendments included, also for confirmation. Please 7 amendments, the proposal is the national MP Vinnik, for confirmation of 7 amendments, colleagues. Please determine by vote, 7 amendment. [[13:40:25]] For-49 Not confirmed. 8th Amendment, People's Deputy Costenko. It's rejected, but it doesn't, it doesn't insist. 8th, no insistence, dear colleagues. 9th, 9th amendment counted, National Deputy Sotnik. For confirmation? Please, National Deputy Winnick, 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u197	We have in the Code a predetermined part of the features of search operations in areas where they cannot be physically carried out by the departments entrusted by law. Therefore, it is suggested that the investigator and in agreement with the procedural supervisor be given the right to conduct first - priority investigations in areas where active military action is carried out. So, for example, how can a criminal be apprehended and lead the investigation on the front? That's why we give the department's commanders the right to conduct first-hand investigation, by order of the investigator and by agreement with the prosecutor. This requires the military prosecutor’s office today, and this requires the situation that has arisen in the ATO area. Please send this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u198	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u199	Dear Mr. Winnick, with respect to you, I mean, you can put everything on record. The only thing that I'm saying as a person who's been doing 20 years of operational search activity (Well, unfortunately you don't have a bearing on this) is that the Agency's operational work, according to the ODP Act, requires a lot of framework and other conditions. Therefore, each commander must pass through, each commander must undergo special training according to the law, be given special permission. If he does not, the Attorney General’s Office is obliged to prosecute him for violating the ODP Act. You don't do that in the law. Now you have made the law impossible to vote with these unaccounted for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a proposal from the People's Deputy Winnick to confirm the 9th amendment. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the 9th amendment. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. You have heard the arguments of the People's Deputy and the Heads of the Professional Committee. As far as confirmation is concerned. [[13:43:13]] For-51 10th Amendment, People's Deputy Costenko. Is it rejected or insisting? Don't insist. 11th is a rejected, National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. The 12th amendment was rejected, National Deputy Costenko. Don't insist. And the 13th is also the National Deputy Kostenko, also rejected. He doesn't insist either. Dear colleagues, a number of amendments that were introduced and approved by the committee, did not find their confirmation in the hall. 14th Amendment counted, 14th accounted for. It was 14 amendments. Not included, not found a number of amendments to their confirmation. By procedure, I request that I prepare now for the second reading vote and in general, taking into account the vote for the amendments. I would like to refer to the second reading vote and, as a whole, Bill No. 1849 of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for war crimes) in the second reading. Please determine whether to vote. In general. [[13:44:45]] For 133 He didn't find confirmation. Actually, I think so. Actually, I think it needs to be re-readed. In order to prepare and not break the law in a good way. For the second reading again. Because there's no unity in the room, so I don't think that's the answer. So please, Your Honor, pay attention! Again. send a bill for re-reading. I think that's a compromise offer. I'm asking you to support her. For the second reading again. Please say yes. We all vote "yes" for re-reading to balance it, this bill. [[13:45:35]] For 227 Decision taken. I understand it's in the interests of all factions to work on. Thank you. But it's borderline. Thank you, Your Honor. Can not open message Dear colleagues, you are asked a question (register No. 1839). Attention! With regard to the return to the vote in favour of the draft Act, which was introduced by the Government (1839), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of shareholders' property rights. I understand that there are different approaches to this bill, but I suggest you go back to its consideration, take it on the first reading as a basis, work on it. except for those positions that were in 2045. Work with the 2045 position of the registered project and submit a joint bill to the second reading so that there is no chapter on this issue. I think it's a perfectly normal position, on the basis of continuing to work on the second reading, as necessary. Please, let's go back, we'll be in order. Just for the time being, please support. Please, just for the return, please support. The language is just the basis, just the basis. No return and then consideration as a basis. Now we're just going back to discuss it. Please, Your Honor, please vote on the return to consideration, Bill 1839 on return. Please vote. As for the return of this bill. [[13:47:43]] For 207 Better yet, 207. Not all have been identified. Didn't everyone hear that? The card didn't work? Yeah? [[Noise Nodes]] Please, from the faction of the proposal, Oleg Lazko. I don't understand why we can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u201	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Well, it's quite obvious that Bill 1839 doesn't find support in the hall. Although I think it should have been supported, if we exclude the standards that allow for judicial review, the first part of this bill is entirely acceptable. But obviously, this bill is not supported, so, Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, honourable colleagues of the coalition, I ask, since 1839 did not support, now put to the vote an analogous bill -- 2045, where there are no counterversive norms that do not support it in the room, and vote it on the ground as a whole, 2045. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u202	Please, Yuri Lucenko. Then Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u203	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I think the way out of this is the next. And once before, the chairman proposed it. Unfortunately, then the MPs did not understand. Unite the government bill that we have just considered, as well as Project 2045. It is now decided that the provisions of these laws are adopted in the first reading. And then the committee will make responsible decisions. So that there will be no raids through the courts, but there will be rules that will guarantee the State’s exercise of its shareholding rights. Therefore, vote in the first reading for this bill, taking into account the bill 2045. I would like to support such a constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u204	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! That's essentially what's happening right now. There are two bills that allow you to reduce the share to 50 plus 1 to hold shareholders' meetings. One bill -- 2045 -- corrects what we actually accepted in a hurry and with the errors of 1310, which would allow us to regain control of Scrooge. Another government is 1397, extending this standard to both the UK and all other shareholders. And that's going to apply to everyone. Plus, plus, of course, you can clean up the district courts. The way they talked about it. But it gives specific mechanisms to take out dividends. So the government has prepared a comprehensive bill with you that allows us to solve these problems. And the governing coalition that this government has formed has failed this issue several times! What's going on? I don't know who anyone works for here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u206	Everyone here works for Ukraine, right? Great, thank you, cheers. Are they all working for Ukraine? That's it, thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u207	My colleagues, I'm sure we're all working for Ukraine. So Yuri Lucenka’s offer to accept the government’s first reading. Taking these positions into account for the second reading, prepare it with all the appropriate suggestions that have been made by the factions, which are absolutely correct, and adopt a normal document that would allow us to give the instrument to the state and shareholders to receive these dividends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Georges of Self-Help. Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u209	Comrades, good afternoon! The request to exclude in the first reading of this bill rules on the transfer of disputes to the courts of general jurisdiction. Leave only those standards that apply to the quorum in the general shareholders’ congregations. And we're willing to support that the transfer of disputes to the courts of general jurisdiction is to be ruled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u210	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I'd like you all to take the text of this law into your hands. We've just voted, the Fatherland faction, to get back to the debate. And our insistence is next. It's in the text. We need to include in the first part the rule that this procedure, proposed by the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet of Ministers, was applied only on dividends that were billed but not paid, including previous periods. And in the second part, it's absolutely right to support the proposal of the Lachka bill. And so if there's the first part that only applies to the dividends, but not paid, including the previous periods, and the second part is from the Easy Project, we can adopt it in such an editorial way. That's our offer. And then we take off all the raiders and all the other stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u212	Thank you. Look, dear fellows, what this is about. I'm going to give you the opposition block. But what I want to point out is that now we're talking to you not about this bill, but about going back to this bill and I'm convinced that when we go back to it and we start discussing its adoption as a basis, we're going to find the right solution for it to be adopted as a basis. Next in order of processing he will be further developed. Are we going back and then having a discussion? Let's go back and talk, I'll give you my word. Please, dear colleagues, regarding the return to consideration, regarding the return to consideration in 1839. Back to the debate. [[13:55:08]] For 201 Oh, wait, another faction isn't. Please, Opposition Block, People's Deputies. There'll be more voices, I can feel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. It's too bad you're giving the word when there's not enough votes in the room. If that was enough, we wouldn't even give it up. We also propose to consider and put to the vote the bill 2045, which was proposed by the coalition representatives, I no longer remember who the signatory is, but the essence of the bill is really useful. As far as who works for who. We're working for the state of Ukraine and we'd like the rules to be for everyone, not the exclusions that were provided for in the procedural legislation that are not clean on the hands of the raiders who can use these schemes properly and submit to shareholders by any local court, by the state court, and block actually certain corporate decisions. No investor will come to Ukraine in the implementation of this position, because it has no primary feeling – a sense of protection of its property. So please make a proposal: 2045, put to the vote, we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u214	And look, in the afternoon, 2045 is supposed to be included in the committee. There is no committee decision now. That's why I'm stressing that we can make a decision to take the bill as a basis and work it out for the second reading, taking into account regulation 2045. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u215	Lechenko, Freedom. I would now like to address all the parliamentarians from the coalition, from outside the coalition and so on. I very much ask you not to create in this room, once again, artificial reasons for the collapse of projects that relate to the return of control over important state-owned enterprises in the Ukrainian state, the takeover of oligarchs and the return of the Ukrainian state. Now there's talk about some of the bills having some kind of wrong standards. Perhaps this is the subject of a discussion. But there is a procedure for first and second reading. Now, with this kind of talk, you create special reasons to knock down both bills and then our oligarchs are going to wipe their pens and be very happy that they get millions, tens of millions of government funds in their pockets. So let's vote first-reading all the bills that are dealt with by oligarchs, and any mischievousness is deleted and discussed between the first and the second readings. Don't screw up the good drafts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u216	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that we are now talking about a return to the bill that will unite the House. We will continue to work in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Parliament, to further develop those positions that you have just mentioned. And I think a lot of them are right. The question now is only about returning to the consideration of the question, which is included in the agenda. And in order to vote on the basis, we can process it into second reading, taking into account 2045. So prepare again, please, for the vote on the return to Bill 1839, on the return to its consideration and in order of discussion, we will determine what we will do next. 1839, on return to review, is now just a return. Please vote for the return, for the consideration of the bill. 13:58:44. For 190 Of course, 190, the decision is not made. Dear colleagues! You and I have two minutes until 2 p.m., but there's an offer, and I think it would be very appropriate to include the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act in the 16th hour coalition. And I would now like to support this proposal, the committee's decision is, there's no objection that I'll be considering the Anti-Corruption Bureau by 4:00. I understand that all the factions agree, everyone agrees. Focus, please, on a very important project, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, to review it after 16 hours. Please assemble the deputies and prepare for the vote. Please, National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Can we vote, colleagues, on the inclusion of the 16-hour meeting? Please, everyone. We are voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Anti-Corruption Bureau from 16 p.m. to the evening meeting. Please, Your Honor, please vote and please support everyone. We vote yes. [[14:00:20]] For 233 Thank you. 233. Decision taken. We'll look into it. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies, please be in the Supreme Council's session hall at 16 hours to consider this impeccable bill on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Everyone, please come. Please, I haven't announced the adjournment of the meeting yet. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, dear fellow MPs, I am addressing you, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Groysman, I am asking the citizens of Ukraine to understand what is going on in this room. The 1839 government bill, which unfortunately did not support the Supreme Council for the fifth time because of controversial norms, but we are, in principle, failing to control the state’s ownership. So I'm asking Vladimir Groysman after 16 hours to put a bill of 2045, which has support in the hall, and now let's vote, there are voices in the hall. Let's now make a decision or vote now, or after 16 hours and adopt Bill 2045, don't avoid responsibility, don't mess with the oligarchs. I demand a vote, there are voices in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-12-m0.u218	Honorable National MPs. I would like to point out that the bill (2045), which was registered at the suggestion of the Head of the Supreme Council, was placed in the order of the day session not considered by the committee. I now have the task of giving to the profile committee by 16 hours to make proposals for consideration of the bill. Please don't disturb the procedure, I think it'll all support it, and then we'll consider it according to the committee's consideration and submission. Thank you. I'm calling the morning session closed. We'll start the evening session at 4:00. Thank you for your attention.
