ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u1	Dear fellow national MPs! Please, take your seats. We can start our work. Please, take your seats. Dear fellow national MPs! Please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register, dear fellows. [[10:07:47]] 296 people's deputies in the hall. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before we begin our work, let's welcome our distinguished colleagues, the nominees, our colleagues with birthdays, namely: Igora Sergiyovič Aleksiev with birthday; Maxima Anatoliyovitcha Polakova let's welcome with birthday at. [[Congrats]] [[applause]] Welcome! All the good, all the success, and all the well-being. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I have two applications: one for a recess and the other for a statement. Please, Yuri Boyko, report. Wait a minute. And then I'll read you an application for recess. Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Dear National Deputies! A group of miners from all over the country arrived in Kiev yesterday. From the east and the west and the center of the country. They basically have economic requirements for wage payments, for not allowing mines to be closed, and for saving jobs. Regrettably, no predominant institution met with them or answered those questions. We looked at today’s agenda and saw that there was also no economic law to help these people get the truth and the answers to these questions. So the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" stops working in the Supreme Council for today, leaves today's session hall, and the wages that we have today,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u3	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u4	. To protect the children of the dead miners. Thank you for your attention. Please support our initiative. The faction is coming out of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Colleagues, please, within a minute of the factions, once such a statement. Oleg Lazko, then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Boyko, I'm offering you a fund to protect the children of the dead miners, not the daily salary of the people's deputy, but the money you stole from Janukovitch and Yanukovic: $400 million on the heights of Boyka famous, on lies and on everything else. Return, and then the miners will have both work and pay. The Pharisees! As far as miners are concerned. The question is absolutely correct. Today, the policy pursued by the Ministry of Energy is a policy aimed at destroying Ukraine's coal and energy sector. The Ministry of Energy, under his authority, is purchasing coal and energy in Russia, robbing our miners of their jobs and wages. The Radical Party faction therefore insists on the resignation of the Minister of Energy and the support of Ukrainian miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u7	Irina Heratchenko, then Yuri Lucenko. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Lazko! Dear Mr. Lazko, I ask you to come to the rostrum and calm your deputies so that they can behave properly when representatives of other political factions come out of the rostrum. Okay. Now I beg your word. First. I want to address the Head of the Supreme Council on behalf of our Block of Petra Prashenka and ask them to broadcast today's session to the area where they stand or the miners, or the people brought by Renat Ahemtov and the Opposition Block, and they appear to be miners to hear today's meeting and to see that at a time when the coalition is working, the Opposition Block is walking through the next meeting without making any decisions, including in favour of miners. That's the first one. The other one. I propose that we publicly announce today the address of the person who owes the miners, Renata Ahemtova and other mine owners who actually owe money to miners. What's more, we want to emphasize, dear miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u9	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u10	That the homes of the owners of your mines that keep you in inhuman conditions are not only in Kiev but also in London. And perhaps we should ask the British Embassy to issue visas to coal miners on a tax basis so that they can go there and ask for their money.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u11	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u12	Stolen from miners and which they have to return to the state. Well, in fact, we want to go to the Ukrainian Security Service, the law enforcement agencies to evaluate those who bring miners here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u13	Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs, I would like first of all to testify to the support of our faction of Bill 1159. The property, the administration of the earth by the people who live on it, is a fundamental principle of democracy and must be carried out. I think it's going to be a fundamental step towards decentralization, by removing the monopoly on power, including the property of the capital center. But I think this bill should be considered when the decentralization package is ready. The following plenary week, I propose that we set aside a whole day of meetings to deal with the problem of decentralization, such as land management and support communities on this issue. The other one. I'm sorry for the delay, please give me one minute, Vladimir Borisovich. I think it's very important. The Supreme Council of Ukraine accepted the deligarization course. She voted in favour of increasing myths. She came upon those who were free of charge with oil and then with a gas pipe. Today is the day-to-day Transfer Price Act, which will strike the oligarchs again. Naturally, they don't like it. They're trying to connect the factions of the coalition. They're trying to destabilize Parliament's work, which is going to take on the interests of the oligarchs, and they're using any methods of intrigue, scandals, and the output of slave labor in the area that requires the resignation of a minister, who has once and for all stopped milking the Ukrainian budget for the sake of a single daughter clan. You can't hide from a proletariat that's poorly engulfed and poorly paid to keep billions gathered from all the Ukrainians in the pocket of a single clan. We understand that there are people who.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u15	30 seconds, finish up, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u16	They know how to cast their slogans, defending one and then another oligarch. All the oligarchs are covered in one world. You want to do business, do it, but get your hands off the government pocket!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u17	Thank you, colleagues. I have a statement from two groups of deputies. The statement was signed by Igor Jeremeyev, the "Will of the People" group and the "Rebirth" group, by Vitaly Homutinik on the announcement of the break. Dear colleagues, at the request of two groups, I announce a recess until 10:30, but please remain in the hall. By 10:30. At 10:30 a.m., we continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's stay in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u18	Dear fellow national MPs! Please take your seats. We're continuing our work. I had a brief meeting with the two factions on this subject. Please, National Deputy Kulinic, report, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u19	Good morning, dear fellows! Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Rebirth Group, Poltavščina. I'd like to say a few words about the reason why we're blocking the rostrum today. The reason is very simple: there are now thousands of people under the Supreme Council -- representatives of local self-government bodies, there are farmers, there are rural heads, there are rural heads on top of us. The reason is that there is a bill number 1159 that provides for the transfer to municipal property of land outside the population. Today, only 16 percent of our nation’s entire country remains within the councils, and all the rest is administered by the executive authorities, the State Agency for Land Resources. Corruption is going to sting, every farmer today can tell you, in every area, if they're major in the districts, they know: bribes up to $300 per acre of land for rent, and if it's property, it's $1,000. This cannot go on indefinitely; the land must be passed on to municipal property. Because it has come to the village councils that the village head cannot solve the problem of even disposing of land under haystacks, under pastures, even under the cemetery, it must be resolved with officials assigned to Kiev, in the district centers. So the position of our group is clear and clear, and I think this is the position of all MPs: the land has to be transferred to municipal property, the land has to be handed over to the village councils, and people have to manage this land through their chosen councils. We have just discussed these issues with the leaders of all factions and groups, and we have agreed that in the next plenary week we will work out this bill, whether we can substitute the proposals for all the MP factions, all the groups, and make a balanced decision. But I repeat: the principle of position is that the land must be passed on to the municipal councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u20	Thank you, fellows of honor! We're continuing our work. I would like to point out that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has created a special group on decentralization and work in local self-government bodies, which includes all members of associations, national deputies, who have the appropriate experience and representation from the faction. In this group, we will certainly work out the issue that needs to be settled and that was discussed in the rostrum today is a common position, including factions and coalitions. And I would like to emphasize once again that in the changes to the Constitution that we are working with you and, convinced of that, we will be able to accept in the near future. The principle of the prevalence of local self-government, the fundamental principle of universality, which will convey and empower everyone outside the population, and the land outside the population point in the knowledge of local self-government. But we must do so in such a way that the land is managed publicly, that is, at auctions, we must take into account the community’s opinion through the decision of the village council, which is essential. So that's the question that needs to be settled, and here's the only thing that's going to happen is that we're going to make agreed proposals for the next session week. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, we're taking our seats. Colleagues, there's an offer. Let's have a signal vote, see if all the deputies are back in the hall. Dear colleagues, let's make a signal vote, a signal. [[10:45:20.]] For-166 Let's do it again. It's a magical sound when everyone else is. [[10:45:39]] For 175 Please come into the hall. Come on, colleagues, please. Please re-vote. [[10:46:22]] For 184 Dear colleagues! Please prepare, let's make one more vote. Let's see if we have enough votes to make a decision. Please take your seats, Your Honor, we're voting for a vote. [[10:48:13]] For 213 Please, colleagues, give me the signal again, more and more deputies. Let's press yes. "Yes," more specifically. [[10:49:26]] For 210 All right, colleagues, let's take a successful vote. So in order of the day, a number of drafts need to be included in the agenda of the day session, namely, attention! – 2389, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces by foreigners and non-citizens. I've prepared a profile committee, 2389. And 2154 a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Internal Service Statute for the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the use of personal wireless devices. Author of Irina Fries. There is a proposal to now include these bills in the agenda of the day session, not now, but in the agenda of the day session. I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of these two bills. Please vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Let's support it, pro. [[10:51:02]] For 238. Thank you, 238, decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for two military laws, registration number 1694. 1695 and 1694 consider now the first, after the decrees. Before the first reading. I'm asking you to support this initiative, this is an initiative on defense laws. It's a second reading. They passed the committees, and the Coalition Council has just supported such a proposal by the Pashinski Committee’s head of profile. Please also support their consideration earlier. Please support, please vote. Please support, these are defense laws. [[10:51:56]] For 232 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Thank you! Draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Election of Steering Authorities of the Committees, Registration No. 2613. There's a proposal for a profile committee to consider this issue, this decision by a reduced procedure. I would like to put this motion to a vote, please, for consideration of this motion under a reduced procedure. [[10:52:34]] For 203 Decision taken. Please welcome to the words of the first deputy chairman of the Committee of Paul Pinzenic. 2613, Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u21	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 8 April 2015 considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Lesyuk Jaroslav Vasilovich, a member of the MP's "Block of Peter Poroshenko", on his election as a member of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. According to part two of article 6 of section seven of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the election of national deputies to committees is made on the basis of proposals made by MPs, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees. Taking into account that the calculated quota of the deputy faction "Block of Petra Prashenko" in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has not been used, the committee decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Lesjuk and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate draft Decision (Registration No. 2613). Please support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? None. Dear colleagues, the draft Decree 2613, which has just been reported by the first deputy head of the committee of profile, is being put to the vote. Please support this decree, 2316, personnel. Please be supportive. Please vote. It's a humane decree. [[10:54:24]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, as we have just voted with you, the draft Law (registration number 1695) is being submitted to your consideration: the draft Law amending article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine. Reported to the chairman of the committee of Nasirov Roman. People's MP Coopery. 1695, 1694 - two military laws. Chicken. Please, People's Deputy Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u23	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting, considered the Comparative Table and Questions on Preparation for the Second Reading of Law 1695: on Amendments to Article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the creation of favourable conditions for the execution of contracts and public defence contracts). Very short. The conclusion of the committee: The second reading and the entire draft Law was discussed many times both in this room and at the committee’s meeting, working groups were formed. All questions have been processed, there is no contradiction to this. Both the request and the proposal to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Colleagues, 1695, table out. Is there anyone? Is he insisting on repairs? In fact, all the amendments were taken into account within the committee. Is that correct? He doesn't have any questions. Is that correct? Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u25	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. This is really a necessary bill to ensure that contracts are executed in a state defence contract. But here's the question, I'd like to make it clear. Your amendments, many amendments that have been taken into account by the committee, have been deleted from the list of goods exempt from taxation of a number of commercial regulations that greatly weaken the bill. I would still like to hear the committee's position, why were such positions excluded? And on what grounds were they expelled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u26	I want to say that these decisions have all taken into account the analysis of the set of rules relating to Ukrainian customs legislation and the requirements of the Ukrainian State Customs Tariff Act and the classification codes. Since there is duplication, these decisions were verified along with the Codes of Classification Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a profile committee to vote. to adopt this law in the second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Colleagues, important Defense Act 1695. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, 1695 is a military law. Draft Act amending article 287 of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the creation of favourable conditions for the enforcement of contracts and public defence contracts – second reading and, as a whole, the decision of the committee in the decision of the committee. Please vote 1695. [[10:58:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next draft of Law 1694. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for creating favourable conditions for the enforcement of contracts and public defence contracts). This is also a binding law. Please, People's Deputy Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u28	Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian National Deputies, are amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in part of the exemption from taxation by adding the cost of import operations to Ukraine's customs territory and supplying equipment to Ukraine's customs territory for use in the manufacture of defence supplies. This bill, as noted earlier, is very closely related to the previous Law No. 1695, which made similar changes, but only in the case of the Customs Code of Ukraine. There were eight rights to the second reading of the bill. They all related to the refinement of the application of the bill's tax regime for VAT. The rights of the National Deputies taken into account relate to the exemption from the added tax only to transactions from the first supply to Ukraine of imported equipment and the establishment of financial and administrative and criminal liability in the event of non-target use imported in the extended regime of this equipment. The amendment to the UKTZED Code of Taxation, the equipment that is imported without paying the value added tax, is not included because the list of such codes is defined in the Customs Code of Ukraine. And the Ukrainian Tax Code refers to an appropriate standard of the Ukrainian Customs Code, i.e. it is a legally based rejection of the amendment. Nor did the committee take into account the law on the definition of specific terms in the Ukrainian Tax Code for the application of added-value tax benefits, since these terms are given in special laws rather than in the Tax Code. There is a general rule in the Tax Code that the terms not defined by the Code are used in the sense established by other laws. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code to be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u29	Please, I'm Alexander Kugel. Please. Let's get some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u30	I ask Jehor Soboljev immediately to hear every correction I make to this law. First, Sergey Soboljev and I offer to exempt taxes in the Tax Code only until 1 January 2020, and not for life. So this can't be the norm that gives the defense complex the opportunity not to pay taxes for life. I'm asking you to make amendment number three, because I want to pay attention, they've only considered their own amendment to Winnik, all my amendments and Soboljev, which cover the way to corruption, the use of this bill, they didn't count. The first amendment of Soboleva and Kugel, which frees not the military complex for life, but only until January 1, 2020.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u31	Here. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u32	Dearly respected offer of support, which was rejected by the profile committee by Alexander Kugel. Please identify yourself, colleagues. The first amendment to the vote was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the point is that this 3 amendment was included in part at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u34	This is the first amendment. I'm talking about the first one that was rejected, right? The first is not. The second is not. Third? The third is partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u35	The third is partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u36	Microphone, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u37	This is not included, this is only part of the conversation. They only counted theirs, Mr. Winnick, and they didn't count any of our amendments. The difference is that they predict a life-long exemption from the taxation of the defence complex. Our bill frees the defense complex from taxation until January 1, 2020. This is the principle of correction. This is the third amendment. Fourth Amendment. Or do you want to take a walk now? Because they're not. Fourth Amendment. And I want to tell you, if we don't accept our amendments, this is a corruption bill that needs to be submitted to the Soboljev committee for consideration and removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u38	Please, committee, position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u39	Well, by the way, about the Yegor Sobolev committee, I want to tell you that he's been well supported and there's no warning about corruption, that's first. Second of all, with regard to term-free release. I would like to emphasize the attention of the Ukrainian national MPs, which is about being released from the first, from the first, from the first, from the first import. And all further operations will be bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, a line, Soboljev, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u41	Colleagues, I want to explain to the entire Parliament, our anti-corruption committee has really had a lot of debate about whether we have the right to pay tax benefits, or whether it will lead to abuse. But now we're fighting for independence. That's reason number one, why we have to create all the conditions for our defense. To control this import, to see that goods are actually imported only for defense, this is a task for everyone, and we all have to do it. But to support our defense factories, this is number one, everything else doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, please, were a proposal by Alexandra Kugel and an amendment to her version, which was partly considered by the committee. Please identify the third amendment. Identify yourself. [[11:05:17]] For-200 The third amendment has not been counted. Partially included in the committee's version. Next, please, which one? Fifth. Is there an amendment in the fifth? Fourth Amendment, please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, please note this amendment, which Sobolev and Kugel have requested to indicate that the list of goods according to the codes presented in Bill 1695, since 1,695, is an introduction to the Customs Code, and this is to the Tax Code. If we don't specify the same codes, this is for Mr. Jegor Sobolev, then this list, which is not indicated, will be imported: videos, cameras, cameras, TVs, satellite antennas, sanitary equipment. The committee rejected, citing that there are Quaids in Law 1695, but this is the law of the Customs Code, which is the Tax Code, and this is the principle, the codes, the same Quad and the codes that are in Law 1695 should be transferred to the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u44	Well, I want to say that these warnings are a little premature, because in fact these two drafts of Laws 1694 and 1695 are very closely related to each other, they have a specificity. And that's why the questions Mrs. Kugel is now warning, they certainly found their reflection and were already voted by the Supreme Council at the time of the adoption of Law 1695. Alexander Volodymyrically, I want to say that this is your personal opinion, you have the right to make this claim for confirmation, and I'm telling you the politics and position of the committee, and it's balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u45	Thank you, colleague! Do you insist? Please urge Alexander Volodymyrna to put her amendment to the vote. I emphasize that this amendment was rejected by the committee because it was taken into account as we heard in another law. Please identify the amendment of author Alexandra Kugel number 4 and National Deputy Sobolev, Sergey Sobolev. [[11:07:45]] For 155 Not accepted. 5th count. 6th count.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u46	It's taken into account essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u47	It's essentially accounted for. Please, National Deputy Kugel, 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u48	I would like to point out once again that this is a committee lie, they didn't count. The principle position of our amendment. We say that in the absence of the purposeful use of such goods, the taxpayer falls under the responsibility set out in article 132, paragraph 132, and is drawn to financial, administrative and criminal responsibility. See how they explain to us that they didn't include our amendment. That the tax payer would have to answer, not to officials, the question of intentional avoidance. And that's why it's a principle of amendment, is it going to be in the hands of the head of the Defense Prome, or is it going to be in the hands of the Minister of Defense, or will it only be in the hands of the head of the enterprise? This is the principle of correction. They stepped down from the responsibility of the head of Defense and senior management of the country, only to leave taxes on taxpayers. With a very soft responsibility written down there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u49	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u50	Dear national deputies, the fact is that the kind of responsibility, criminal responsibility that Mrs. Kugel now insists on, is foreseen and regulated by the Criminal Code of Ukraine, is not tax-free. And that is why, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyr, these questions must be taken into account in the Criminal Code of Ukraine regarding the responsibility of officials. As for the Ukrainian Tax Code, this is not the case, there is only the responsibility of businesses. That's why let's not break the logic of this law and the position of the committee to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u51	Thank you. She was rejected by the committee. Is the author insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u52	It was essentially taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u53	Please note that the author insists on 6 amendments. Be determined, 6 revisions. [[11:10:13]] For-125 Not accepted. 7th Amendment. Let's go. 8 revisions. Please, Alexandra Kugel, 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, please listen to the 8th amendment, which has been rejected. We're giving the term "non-use." It is understood that such goods are used in directions that are not provided for by a public defence contract. Or not using such products in the production of defence products. They rejected this amendment and there is no understanding in the law that it is not purposeful use. This is a principle if you really want to support the defense order. Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u55	Please, the position of the committee, the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! The fact is that the use of imported goods is not for the purposes defined in this paragraph, for whatever reason, is not a purposeful use. The proposed terminology is not enough to apply the law when it was adopted and the position of the committee was unanimous, to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u57	Thank you. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u59	The eighth amendment, rejected by the committee, insists, Alexandra Kugel, please identify yourself. [[11:11:48]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The 9th amendment, please, is counted by the Cabinet of Ministers. 10 revisions, accounted for. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, we've considered the table that the committee has given us, please take your seats, your esteemed colleagues, for the vote. Please take your seats, Your Honor, for the vote. Ready to vote? Honorable colleagues, national deputies, take your seats to vote on the law, the defense law, in the second reading. Please! Registration number of draft Law 1694: amending article 197 of the Ukrainian Tax Code to create favourable conditions for the enforcement of public defence contracts and contracts. Colleagues! In line with the committee's decision, there is a proposal to adopt in a second reading and in general a draft law relating to the security of our country. Please, Your Honor, please vote on the second reading and in general on the committee's decision. Please vote. [[11:13:25]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next up, dear fellows, let's move. Then we have in our first reading to your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, a draft of the Law, registration number 1351, 1351-1. The national deputy Yuri Wozniak is the author and national deputy of Ukraine, author Rosenblat Borislav. There is an offer by the authors of the law to report it, to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please identify your esteemed colleagues as to the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. [[11:14:35]] For-189 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by Bill No. 1351 on the characteristics of amber-scart mining and genealogies and exhibits that have no industrial significance. So essentially the bill is actually a long-awaited bill. And this bill primarily awaits the State budget of Ukraine, the local budgets of certain areas, and of course the people who live in the Polish regions of Ukraine. Yes, some of the experts and such experts in paws say that the bill has a corrupt component. So what I'm going to say is that the next corruption component is that 15 years of this amber is illegal. The corruption component is that an enterprise like Ukrishtin shows the output of only one percent of what's actually coming out. The corruption component is actually that in 2008, President Yushchenko made a commitment to the bill. I dedicated him, well, for some reason, it's understandable, isn't it? In fact, there are two bills: the bill is basic 1351, and the bill is an alternative, a group of deputies. We've held round tables, we've consulted with specialists, right? People’s deputies also gathered, the heads of district councils gathered, and came to a conclusion, and so too, on my initiative to support the alternative bill itself. This is not a place for ambition. So I also want to withdraw my bill in favour of an alternative bill. In turn, I'm going to say the next thing that we're going to do is we're going to work out this bill before the second reading. This is going to be the first step, this is the first step to doing the things that send money to the State Budget and the local budgets. So I'm asking my fellow MPs to support this bill, which is an alternative, on a basis, to work out. And then we'll take it from the second reading. Yeah, it's an alternative. And I'll say this: whether the bill is adopted or not accepted, amber is all the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u61	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u62	It's going to be mined all the time, and the money won't be channeled into government and local budgets either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Rosenblatt, National MP, 1351-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Allow me to offer you to consider Bill 1351 on amber. First of all, I wanted to thank my colleague at the Front of Change faction, Mr. Wozniak, for making it very special. And a statement. Today on your screens, I wanted to show you what is happening today in the areas of the north of our country, our Polisi, how our forests are being destroyed, how nature is being destroyed. But today this law is not just about environmental catastrophe, it is primarily about social tension. We have so much to say today in the hall that we want decentralization, budget filling, money filling for our village and city councils. Respectful, smuggled, and illegal extraction of this stone causes between 2 million and 8 million dollars a day between the budget. We want this law to create a new cluster, so-called guardian craftsmen. We want people, peasants, to have a job so that people can actually see that the nagras that belong to them today are doing them good. I would also like to stress separately that today's issue of amber is the beginning, I repeat, of the creation of the labor of our country, this will allow the creation of thousands, tens of thousands of new jobs, this will actually make the depressed areas powerful. It's going to be building roads and everything. I know there are many different thoughts today, but its legalization is the first thing that comes into the budgets of local councils. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u65	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u66	I ask you to support this bill, to join the second reading, to make and amend it, and finally to make our country independent of the IMF, depending on its own country, its own people and its hardworking people. Thank you. And I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u67	Thank you, colleague. Please, co-reporter, head of the profile committee, Mikola Tomenko, please. Please, colleagues, let's be a little quieter, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, there are three very serious elements to this problem. Burst production today is not just a corrupt scheme, it's a corrupt scheme. And what we hear once a month that some poor man is being held there for 2 or 3 million, we have to understand that this is not a percentage of what is being exported from Ukraine. It's an international smuggling system that's built with involvement, unfortunately, of the law enforcement organs of those who crash both in Kiev and in Zitomire and in Reveny and in Lutsk. It's a system that, frankly, we can't overcome just one of these laws. It must be overcome by reform of law enforcement agencies, it must be overcome by an adequate and understandable work of customs, fiscal services and the whole country. But does this mean that law is not to be passed? Of course not. Oh, my God. We have this mental trait of Ukrainian that we're talking about, well the law is weak, weak and still have to wait for another 20 years until what Borislav showed me, I'm talking about the environmental component right now, I'm saying that the pump is going to extract that hole, before they cut out a few more acres, and then they're going to go somewhere else. He doesn't even have the brains to throw that hole that pumped them all the way down. So from an ecological point of view, of course, it's also a disaster and a danger. From an economic point of view, this is for depressed regions, especially Volina, Plainland and Zitomiri, this is a rescue. So our idea to create and legalize custody artifacts and legalize them so that local communities can have money in their budget is an economic rescue. I am grateful to Yuri Wozniak, who supported the ideology of a bill and our committee decided to vote and support (1351-1), and to take the lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u69	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u70	And then get everyone to make a serious improvement in the bill. Because I'm going to say that the claim to the law is just as much, and we're aware of it, we're going to say that we understood that we were accepting the concept, and then we're going to involve three district councils again, to which I want to express my gratitude to both the Gitomires and the Ravens, and the Volinskys. We're hiring experts, law enforcement, and we're making a law that will stop this amber smuggling. Friends! We need to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Please sign up two pros, two opposites. Two for, two against, please. National MP Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u72	Please pass the word Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u73	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u74	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! I'm the co-author of this bill. I'm asking you to support him and I insist on supporting him on the first reading, because there's a lot of comments, a lot of suggestions coming from Plainness, from our Ukrainian Polisi. So I propose and I ask that we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Romanov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u76	I give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u77	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u78	Victor Krivenko will represent our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u79	Victor Krivenko, please "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u80	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to thank the authors for raising this very important subject, both for the initiative and for the work. But unfortunately, this bill cannot be adopted in any case, it has two corruptive possibilities. The first is to create utilities that will be monopolies that will be 20 years old and issued to companies for 5 years. The second position is where you create a stock exchange that has a monopoly. And you can't let that happen. Similarly, the Anticorruption Committee has recognized this law as corrupt. This law in no way regulates the relationship of guardians, refers to artels, there is no such thing at all. So I ask everyone not to support this bill, return it for further work, and we will work together with the authors and make a separate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u81	Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian people! If yesterday’s problem of illegal amber mining was local, it is now very large. I mean, it's an illegal shadow industry, but with signs that are already international, because, really, I want to support the committee head, who said that a lot of contraband shows, that much of this mineral is being exported abroad. Clearly, there was hope for new authority for those who made money today, for those who tried to survive, and for those who did. So our task with you, despite the fact that there is a note from Self-Help, I call for support in this regard, and for the second reading to take into account all the amendments, the desires that really, perhaps imperfect text, but all that is happening today in this area, it is much more global and more important to choose from ours, from ours, from ours, from our income portion of money than those observations that are. So today, I would like to focus on a very important issue, besides corruption, except that there's a lot of crime on this issue, there's a very important problem -- it's the lives of our children, the children who have to take classes at school, they go to school, they go to sleep there, they're there, and they get crippled. So the "Fatherland" faction is asking for support in the first reading of the bill, to create a working group of government representatives, guardians, local self-government, to work on the second reading of a normal document and to adopt it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u84	Thank you, colleagues. Please, Igor Nasalik, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u85	The faction's head took my word. So please pass the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u86	He couldn't take your word, you could just pass it on. I understand. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I was born in the Plains region, and more than that, I was acting as deputy head of the district administration in the 1990s, and we had already initiated a similar Law on Custody, which could finally put the situation on a healthy legal footing. But to be honest, this law should be adopted in the first reading, but it will not stop the banditry that takes place in Polissa Wallinsky, Ravensky, already part of the Zitomir region. Two things are needed: the power of executive power, first of all, the IMF, which has to go from the minister's password to the law. And finally, the paramilitary gangs that were created on the Rowan Polissa must be eliminated and the legal basis for the business that takes place there. Parliament can only do the first part -- adopt the law. But we require the executive to eliminate armed gangs that carry complete anarchy and robbery in the territory of Ukrainian Polissi. By voting on our parliamentary part of the job, we call on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all the forces to do the second part of the job. And then there will be peace and peace on the Plains, where people will live a normal working life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, People's Front, People's Deputy Krivenko, then the Radical Party, Victor Galasjuk, then, well, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the one who says this law will increase corruption may not know or want to know the situation that is now in the northern parts of our country. There is a large area where there is virtually no Ukrainian authority. There are bandits, there are corrupt officials. Tens of millions of dollars are rotated there. People die and people get hurt. But at the same time, there are tens of thousands of people working there every day from depressed regions with no other income, no other salary, and they are forced to do so. So we start a long journey, but we have to take the first step. We need to give people hope for honest work, honest pay, and social protection. People work and want to work. And they will continue to work, but they must be protected. So please, the People's Front faction will support this law in the first reading, and we urge it to support the entire hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u90	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction supports this bill and invites all colleagues to do so. I'm going to make it very simple for you to say that the industry that today is completely tinted, people are dying, people have no wages, no pensions, no safety of their work. This law will allow legal conditions to be created for their work, allowing them to ensure, including the safety of work, including pensions for these people, and that is what needs to be done. And the fact that utilities are really good, because we have to fill the municipal budgets in every way. What decentralization can we talk about if we don't allow local budgets to earn, including in this direction. So we have to contribute to the adoption of this law, to the second reading of it, because it's legal jobs, because it's the filling of the pension fund, and it's the safety of the work of those people who are nowhere to be found today and who are dying on those trenches. Therefore, honourable colleagues, support in the first reading, and the second reading of the bill in the Main Committee will be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u92	Mikhail Golovko, one minute. And then Ivan Krulko. And we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u93	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the bill is imperfect and needs work, and many observations are needed. But the situation that we have right now in the North of the Ukrainian State is just terrible. Because we've seen that virtually the territory is transformed into craters like on the Moon, where people actually die and perish, and they're buried there, and they're not even found from there, and people and technology are everything. I want to say that the magnitude of this catastrophe has already passed the regional level -- it's almost Ukrainian. And so our task of taking at least some steps and legalizing amber production is a priority. This filling is going to be the cost of the budget, this is going to be the jobs, this is going to be the end of it, and this banditry and I have to end it. And it's the main task that the IMF has to deal with banditry, not hide it as it is now. And that's why Minister Habakkuk has to see that this banditry is finally destroyed. And we have to help here in the session room and in the second reading take all the adjustments into account. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u94	Thank you! Please, Ivan Krulko. And I ask my colleagues to take their seats, and we will now proceed to the vote after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u95	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In this context, I would like to address Ukrainian society first. So when are many screens spoken and, including from this rostrum, are there any schemes that were in the Yanukovic regime? So the problem with amber is that it confirms that these schemes are in place to date. This problem is solved, and corruption schemes that lead to the very top, and hundreds of thousands of U.S. dollars every day come from this corrupt scheme. So, dear colleagues, we have to settle this issue. This law must be adopted in the first reading. But before we accept it in the second reading, the Attorney General has here from the rostrum to communicate and give specific names, who's covering up these terrible crimes, who's putting people into actual slavery in the 21st century? And we have to put an end to the fact that Ukrainian nadras are actually stealing from us today, and the state doesn't get any right from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u96	Thank you, colleagues. Colleagues, there's going to be a lot of pros, there's going to be a lot of 'against', we've heard that. But the first reading is not an accepted bill, which is an accepted draft on the basis that can create a normal basis for further discussion, with emphasis on public. For there to be no corruption, this process must be made public, as the head of the profiling committee said, to engage the district councils, to engage the village heads. The MPs who stood up here, they're the deputy majors, they're not going to, I think they're going to be in trouble, and then they won't be able to look into the eyes of the people who vote for them. So there's a proposal, two laws were 1351, there's a proposal by the committee to reject it, and there's 1351-1, as if a compromise bill that we can now consider as a basis, and by second reading you'll be discussing it, but once again, this process has to be public, open so that no one has any doubts left. So please, colleagues, please prepare for the vote and we will now vote. You're looking at a draft of Law 1351-1 on the characteristics of the mining of amber and raw materials in genealogy and non-industrious displays, right on the first reading on the basis. The results of the first reading are based on what we read. Please, colleagues, colleagues, please! Ready to vote? Please vote 1351-1 on the basis. Based on the base. [[11:35:54]] For 219 Dear friends, not accepted. We didn't make it? We didn't make it? All right, please, let's go back. Please, colleagues, on your return, prepare, this cannot last permanently, express your position, and be determined. Please, for your colleagues, return to 1351-1 for your return. Did you raise your deputies in the hall? 1351-1, on return, please be determined regarding the return to the consideration of this bill. [[11:36:47]] For 229 We're back. And now, on the basis of that, the honourable colleagues, on the basis of that, on the basis of that. We're voting on the basis. Identify yourself, please. [[11:37:06]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear friends! I'd very much like to ask my esteemed colleagues, based on this first step, where you can find the right mechanisms for publicizing this process. So please, colleagues, self-help from other factions unite, form a joint task force, engage the Anti-Corruption Committee, and go completely public in every position. Please. Next up, dear fellows, let's move. Dear colleagues! You have introduced a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly (1679, registration number). The National Deputy Igor Alexeyev, the author of this project, made a proposal to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to take a look at these, dear fellows. [[11:38:17]] For-173 Please, Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u97	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the draft Law of Registration No. 1679 is proposed to supplement the list of credit categories in payment to the court. The bill invites the privatization authorities to grant relief from court fees in all matters relating to the protection of property rights and the interests of the State. The basis of this law is very simple and clear, and this year only about half a million dollars are provided by the State Privatization Authority. At the same time, the need for privatization authorities to pay a corresponding fee for lawsuits amounts to about 15 million dollars. Thus, privatization authorities cannot fully exercise their powers to protect the State’s property interests. However, if the privatization authorities are able to implement all the warrants and file the relevant review lawsuits, and the rent rate, and the return of the illegal property held by the owners, then the actual amount of revenue coming to the state budget from the satisfaction of these claims is essentially over 600 million dollars. So I call on all MPs to support this bill as a co-author of other MPs from the coalition. The committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u98	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the Committee, National Deputy Chicken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 11 February 2015 considered the proposed draft Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Law on the Judicial Assembly (to supplement the list of categories of benefits) submitted by the People's Deputies Alexeiev, Storobuk and others. The bill proposes to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, and in fact to renew and extend benefits to the State's privatization authorities for the payment of lawsuits, complaints, claims by such authorities in all matters relating to the protection of property rights and the interests of the State. According to an explanatory note to the bill, these changes have been called upon to strengthen the State's mechanism of protection of property rights in Ukraine's territory in judicial order. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on February 10th of this year by commenting on the bill, but the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft 1679, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Alexiev, Storobuk and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u100	Thank you. Colleagues — Is There a Need to Discuss? The question of the first reading. It is, isn't it? Well, then sign up, two "for", two "against". Melniczuk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please note that in our country, the State’s interest in the court is represented by a prosecutor who is free of the payment of the congregation. In addition, the interests of the State tend to be violated through privatization agencies. I see absolutely no logic in freeing them from payment to the court. Well, it doesn't make any sense. We have enough prosecutor in the state to defend the interests of the state. That's it! Therefore, I ask you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u102	National MP Kuprienko Oleg, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u103	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues, this bill protects primarily the interests of the state and the people. Why? Because usually there is no extra funds or funds in the holding fund to turn to, and this is a court of commerce, who doesn't know, look at the courts. There is a lack or lack of funds in the judicial congregation that makes it impossible to appeal to a court of law. The D.A. won't go on such matters, read the Procurator's Act, all the more the new edition of this law. So this law is necessary, it needs to be voted for, because large businesses that have been stolen into the state, or perhaps someone intends to make them, and in order to return, it is necessary to bring them to justice. And this is up to 5 percent of the value of the same factory or factory, so this is the annual budget of that State Property Fund. That is why we support this bill and we call on all national MPs to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Georges, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u105	Comrades, good afternoon. Once again, it's a good idea to cover up some nonsense. See, the judicial congregation is an element of the independence of the judicial system as such. This time. These are the funds that go to finance the judicial system. Two. I remind you that all of our subjects are equal in the state, both state and non - state. So if you want to fire someone, please release everyone. And we're trying to cover up the inadequacy of the leaders of privatization bodies who can't predict the necessary amounts in their budgets in advance. This is wrong. And the third. I would like to point out to you that the so - called high court congregation in the household court has limitations. That's going to be about 20, with something like thousands of dollars. And those costs are not significant enough to pay off this judicial congregation in some major matter. But by cleaning up this congregation, we create the conditions for privatization authorities, as on a conveyor, to actually print out legitimate court disputes. So we're against and we're urging coalition colleagues not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u106	Please, Igor Alexeyev, the author. Let's make a comment and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! I still urge you to support this bill. Once again, I would like to stress the payment of the court’s fees to the National Court of Justice will amount to only half a million dollars. At the same time, if the Maintenance Fund fulfils its mandate under this law, it is likely that more than 600 million dollars will be allocated to the State Budget. These are the accounts of the holding fund. So I call again on the MPs to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u108	Thank you. People's MP Rybak, Peter Dusty Block, and we'll proceed to the vote. I think they've been swapping positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! I urge everyone to support this bill. In addition to this bill, there is a bill in the Supreme Council (2683), which also proposes that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine be released from the payment of the court’s fees. And as in the first, and in the second, case today, there is no funding available from the State Budget, and it is accordingly impossible to sue for damages to the State. So I propose in my first reading that I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, dear colleagues. The issue is the adoption of this law in the first reading. Of course, the MPs are entitled to be defined on this point. Please. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please take your seats. 1679, honorary colleagues, on the ground. I'd like to make up my mind. Please determine whether to vote on the basis. [[11:47:48]] For 114 The decision is not taken. There is a need to bring it back first. preparation. I think you should work it out, author. Igor Sergiyovich, work with your colleagues and perhaps there will be a harmonized bill for further work. Thank you. 1679. Next. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, listen, at the suggestion of the Ministry of Education and the Professional Committee on Education and Science, Science and Education, there is a proposal to include in the order of the day a draft law which was considered on the committee yesterday and was previously included in the agenda of the day session – a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (to improve the admission to education and the placement of public procurement). I don't think we can be indifferent to education. I'm going to put an offer on the agenda right now, so there's a schedule for today, and we're going to work on it, and I think we're going to make an agreed decision. Lilia Mikhailovna, is there a comment? Please. One minute, please. 2672. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, it is very important for us to adopt this bill as quickly as possible, because it removes technical issues in the Higher Education Act, which relate to the coordinated conduct of the introductory company and the formation of the public procurement. So he can't wait until next plenary week. It is vital that we consider it today. Please enter into the agenda. This request is also made by the Ministry of Education and Science to ensure that a coordinated introductory company is carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u112	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare, let's put it in the agenda. Please invite all the deputies to the hall, as we will now consider two real reform laws: the Law on State Service and the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. So I'd like to ask all the deputies to come into the hall and take a close look at this. Please now include in the agenda for this day the draft Act on Amendments to the Higher Education Act (for the Improvement of Admission to Education and the Placement of State Procurement) (registration No. 2672). Please support, Your Honor, the inclusion in the schedule. Please be supportive. Let's support, this is education, and education and science must be supported. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:50:21]] For 219 We didn't make it. Please. Please. Yeah, I can see they didn't make it. Please re-engage. Colleagues, let's vote. 2672 on schedule for consideration. Vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:50:52]] For 235 Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please invite the deputies to the hall again. Dear colleagues, the bill of Law 2490 and 2490-1 has been introduced for your consideration. One is prepared by the National Service of the State Service of Ukraine, another prepared by the National Deputy of Ukraine. There's a proposal to consider it as a simplified procedure, which is based on the results of the first reading. But if I have to make a statement, I won't limit it. So please make a proposal to vote on the basis for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:51:42]] For-163 Thank you. Please, Vashchenko Constantine Alexandrovich, Head of the National Service Agency for Public Service. Please. Colleagues, let's listen carefully, this is a very important reforming law that will change the way the government service is formed in Ukraine. We often complain with you about the quality of government, and this law can systematically resolve this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, quality systemic changes in all spheres of Ukrainian social life in the context of its European integration should be ensured by well-established, effective, professional, non-profit-oriented, citizen-centred government. Today, I have the honour to present to you a draft of the Ukrainian State Service Act, drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to implement the provisions of the Association Agreement, Strategy 2020, Coalition Agreement and Programmes of Government. With the government, there were better domestic and foreign experts working on the bill. He conducted an expert on the Sigma SEB programme and found that it was in line with the EU's common standards and better European practices. A positive assessment of the bill was given at the National Reform Board meeting, as well as during a broad public discussion. What a principle the government is proposing. First of all, it is the separation of political and administrative positions, such as the establishment of the Institute of State Secretaries of the Ministry, the expulsion outside the public service of the security services, the services of the departments, and so forth. Setting up an exclusive competitive appointment procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u114	Constantine Alexanderovich, but you can stop. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished fellow national MPs, allow me with great honor and respect to address you and ask your attention. National MP Skuratovsky, National Deputy Pavelko, Your Honor, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention, because this is an extremely important bill. Thank you for your understanding. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u115	Thus, one principled money is the establishment of an exceptionally competitive procedure for appointment to all public service posts, including senior management positions. The introduction of objective personnel selection and promotion mechanisms is based solely on professional gains and merit. Establishing legislative requirements for the qualification of applicants for public service posts, including high-level owners. Department of the State Service, that is to say the prohibition of the membership of officials in political parties. Setting up a transparent model for civil servants. Increasing the professional motivation of civil servants, the prestige and competitiveness of the service itself. What, then, will reform the public service of the Ukrainian citizen? The government believes that a stable, competent and responsible apparatus will be more motivated to perform tasks in the interests of society. First of all, the quality of public services will improve. There will also be a staff upgrade of public authorities, especially at the expense of young people who see the possibility of professional self - realization in the public service, and an official will become a subject of civil society control. In the end, the confidence of citizens in power and state institutions will increase, which, in our view, is the most important guarantee of the success of reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention! We have also carefully considered the bill, which has been tabled as an alternative to the people's MP Melniczuk, and in general it repeats the basic positions of the government bill, except for some things that we can consider in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention! And we're going to suggest that the second project be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u116	Thank you, fellows of honor! Alona Skrum's report, please, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u117	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Alona's Scrum, the Fatherland faction, a public service reform subcommittee. In fact, you know, it's the law that we've been waiting for a long, long time to be done in the implementation of the 2014 agreement on assistance to Ukraine and on reform of the public service. Since September of the previous year, this bill has been drafted by both the State Service Agency and international experts with the help of the Swedish organization Sigma, with the help of the Reanimation Package Reform, with the help of many prominent lawyers and public figures. And since September of last year, we've been waiting for this bill that we were supposed to adopt a long time ago. In fact, under the coalition agreement, I have to say that you and I should have received this bill from Kabmin, whose government he is reforming in fact in December 2014. Now we're looking at it as a violation of the coalition agreement, because for more than four months, he's been "walking" in agreement with the government corridors, the ministries and pretty seriously deteriorating his quality unfortunately, and I have to say that. But despite this, this bill is an important radical reform that we have been waiting for so long in our country. Indeed, the committee at its meeting on April 22 has considered the Cabinet's Law on State Service under registration number 2490. And during the very long discussions, during the comments from the unions, from the representatives of the various public organizations, we concluded that we would still support those important innovations in the bill, especially the definition of the only conditions for entering the public service through an open competition, which is extremely important. Because such appointments will now be determined not by party quotas, not by political arrangements, not by any personal preferences, as is unfortunately the case now, but by a specific professional open competition and taking into account only the existing professional competences of management experience and previous merit. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u118	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u119	At the same time, the committee took note of numerous observations of a conceptual nature, including both from the Supreme Court of Ukraine and from trade unions and from public experts. The committee therefore recommends that the bill be adopted in the first reading and that a working group be set up where the bill will be finalized for the second reading. I ask you very much to pay attention to him, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u120	Thank you. Please sign in, two for, two against. People's MP Kiral, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will certainly support this bill. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reforms we've been talking about for so long and so much, and the fight against corruption, and other important changes, and the transformations in our country are being made by people's hands. It is the people working in government today who are responsible for these reforms in local governments. Without changing today's system of recruiting people into these positions of professionalism, open and transparent, without changing the motivational component, so that these people work there and are motivated to make these changes and to sacrifice themselves, and to sacrifice their knowledge and experience on these things, we will have nothing in our country. We'll keep talking about how we've been doing this for the last 10 or 20 years. Therefore, we must urge all of us to support this bill and those of us who have the right level and experience in discussing it in the working group and to develop it into a second reading so that we have a quality law and a quality system of government in Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! For the sake of justice, I would like to point out that this bill that we are considering does not belong to the sphere that we have to agree on in accordance with our obligations under the Association Agreement. But at the same time, at the Committee on European Integration, we had a very interesting and long discussion about the proposed bill, and we have to say that, in fact, he received a high degree of appreciation during the hearings on our committee. Because for both the Committee on European Integration and our political faction it is clear that the reform of human resources policy in Ukraine is drawing Ukraine closer to European standards. Indeed, we should come to the point that we should clearly separate political positions and professional assignments. We have to put out public open competitions where we have to win purely professional approaches, give up farming and other rudiments of our past in the field of human resources. And that's just going to give a new impetus to the state's governance system. Obviously, today we have a lot of critical observations about various institutions of power, executive power, in cities, in regions, but the truth is that there are no children anywhere that very often we don't have ministries or offices because there was, in fact, no understood human resources policy, there were no criteria for the formation of these institutions. And so this law, it's really in time, it's very good that we accept it, I think it will help, including in our next decentralization reform, and our faction will unanimously give all the votes for it, we ask the session room to support this law. And speaking to the miners who today, I think, are listening to our broadcast. You know, we have a criminal responsibility for not paying wages. In fact, there will be the right managers, the pay will be paid. Thus, this law helps to resolve many issues in the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u124	Mikola Trohimovich Fedoruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u125	I ask you to pass the word to an expert in this Queen of Oleni Petrovni Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u126	Helen Boyko, People's Front. The People's Front will definitely support the Public Service Act, the service of local self-government. Because, for the first time, in the history of Ukraine, this is an expert bill. And it wasn't long ago that this bill on the Cabinet of Ministers was carefully prepared. And we have a draft, expert-weighted approved bill today. The main achievements of this bill are that the public service will become professional from now on, as long as we accept it. In addition, the very structure of the public service is completely changing in terms of material and technical security, financing for pay. Of course, there are so many opponents in this bill. Note, in particular, that it is the civil servants who have prejudice. Since some people no longer see themselves as an official of the bill, some rely on the idea that there will be a deterioration in funding, all of this is prejudice. We need to read the bill carefully and see what really is a new system of public service financing, preparation for the public service, training. So we have to trust experts and experts and support this bill. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko, Fatherland. Alona Shkrum, please. And, colleagues, we continue for 15 minutes. It's been 12 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u128	My colleagues, I'm going to say very briefly: let's be honest. Indeed, we today have no respect or confidence in government officials. And we need to urgently reform the public service on the basis of a career public service, by involving, indeed, professional people, on the basis of open competitions, to give equal access to all Ukrainian citizens to the public service by means of their expertise and expertise, not by political quotas and by the personal sympathy of any other civil servants. So clearly, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. But we also make a lot of comments. First of all, we've got a lot of feedback from experts on what we need is a new model for reforming government, where there is no and where there is no conflict between different government offices and between senior heads of government. Unfortunately, here now, if you look at the authority assigned to the Secretary of State, we think that this list of powers is very broad, and maybe it lays another ground for conflict between the various senior government officials in one ministry, which is very dangerous. So we will definitely work in the working group, we will work on it for a second reading, and we will return to it the quality, the impartiality and the political relevance that was laid down in its development and which is essential for the European path of government service and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u129	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, a minute, then Yuri Levchenko and Oksana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! In any country of the world, there is no such thing as inadequacy of government and the economy and normal welfare of people. Therefore, the Radical Party faction supports the adoption of the new State Service Act in the very same way that it was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, because it would allow the demands to be made by government officials, allowing open competitions to be held, not by their brothers, their best men and their classmates, but by the selection of professionals for the public service, who would make real reforms. They are very strict demands, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the prestige of the profession, and on the next step, is to raise wages so that there is no corruption. The whole division of the functions of professional administration and politics, that's how we're going to ensure professional management of the economy, in general, of the state, and because of such professional management there will be jobs, there will be pensions, there will be normal welfare of citizens. So let's relaunch the government system in Ukraine. We support the first reading, we work together on the second reading. The Radical Party invites you to join this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u131	Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Colleagues, please come in. Invite the deputies to the hall. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u132	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, first of all, there's a lot of reporting on European standards, that we need to put in place a new public service system. But I'm paying attention to the session hall and all of our audiences, as reported by Mr. Vaschenko, today's head of state service, a man who is in fact a complete prosthetic Mr. Rafalski, deputy director of President Janukovic's Administration, who was assigned to Janukovitch as the first deputy director of the Academy of State Service; a man who banned his employees from going to Midan, who told me that there were drug addicts, bandits and so on, and so on, and so on, who himself falls under the illustration. Can this man offer a normal law?Oh, my God! Well, to put it mildly, no. I'm going to look at just one fact in this law that proves it's propaganda, this law is completely propaganda. It says here that disciplinary commissions that are to be checked by government officials are created separately by each government body, and these disciplinary commissions, in fact, are introduced by the head of this body. You're on your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u133	Please, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u134	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we now have this bill, which is one of the key, systemic solutions. I am very pleased that the government has proposed this bill and the next bill that we will consider because they are the systemic decisions, the systemic reforms that the state so needs today. This bill does, I would say, two vital functions. First. If we are talking about the cleansing of power in general, in the long run and in the right way, it is possible only through the renewal of the public service corps, and this law makes it possible to do so. Secondly, what this law is about is that, by updating this corps of government officials, it creates the ability of the government of Ukraine to continue to form reforms. So I think that this bill must certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u135	Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. And please, colleagues, let's take your seats, let's vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u136	Unfortunately, a civil servant in Ukraine is associated with the collapse of the economy, with the loss of territory. The government official was mismanaging the state, the state was very weak, and it became weak in 24 years. This law brings hope and hope for a change in the philosophy of public service. There are two dangers. As for the second reading, it can disappear as a principle of new philosophy, for the resistance of the system will not change, nor will the second philosophy that we follow very gradually in an evolutionary way, rather than gathering new young people from the first day on how new blood can also destroy it. So to the second reading, respected colleagues, hard work. Do not be afraid of the new but, at the same time, do not give in to the evolution of the old. This is how we feel about supporting our first reading and working hard today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. I'll say a few words about this law. In fact, this law was still ready in about October months, and I coordinated its development when I worked in the government. And this law was actually quite inclusive. There were many round tables, discussions, experts, conclusions of expert organizations that supported this law. Of course, there are opposers in this law. Because this law will create a system in which professional public service will be established in Ukraine. A service that will be our pride, not the other way around. A service that will put Ukraine in a strong position in its professional capacity. If we do not make this law, people who want to work for the good will never come into power. So today this law is a law on professional public service. During the course of government procedures, of course, certain things have been introduced that require further development. And I believe that our task today is to transfer it to the parliamentary stage and to the second reading to adopt such a law that will meet everyone's, I emphasize, European standards, which has been eliminated from the public service by politicalization, when it is accepted, not as intelligence, but as a party, which is then very expensive to us to the state. And we're going to make a system where government officials working in the authorities will be the pride of our country. I certainly want to continue this work and an expert group will be set up at the level of the Head of the Supreme Council, which will work with the committee as it was in the first version of the law, just as colleagues, many of them, have been involved in the drafting of this bill today, have said. Please prepare yourself, Your Honor, and I'd like to support you in the first. As a result of the first reading (registration number 2490) of the draft Law on State Service. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. 2490, about the State Service. And please support your colleagues. Colleagues, please support. Please support, Your Honor, on the basis of this. [[12:14:48]] For 197 We didn't make it. Invite a colleague to the hall. Dear friends, dear colleagues of the national MPs, I ask everyone to take their seats and support this bill. Let's go back. Shall we go back? One minute. A lot of people didn't make it. People's deputies, please. Let's go back. A return offer. To return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support me. [[12:15:49]] For 197 People's deputies are coming into the hall. Colleagues, please. Didn't the card work? Well, let's do it again. Signal for return. Signal, colleagues. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[12:16:28]] For 203 That's better. People's deputies are coming in. Let's do it again. [[12:17:04]] For-198 Dear colleagues, I think we'll return to his consideration after the break. I ask the factions, please, after the break, we will vote on this law, and return to this law. I'm asking everyone, 30 minutes off, 12:50 a.m. At 12.50.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! The break provided for by the Rules is exhausted. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take their jobs, concentrate, and prepare for the start of our work. Please come into the hall. I ask the secretariat to report, and the heads of factions to mobilize all their personnel potential to begin our work. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Heads of factions! The head of the People's Front faction, Andrew Teteruk, please come forward, if you please, for a moment before the presidency. I ask the factions to mobilize their deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u139	Colleagues, please take your seats. We'll continue our work. We have one undeclared law that is very important. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u140	Colleagues, comrades! Well, we have the first question going to the vote. We can't move, I'm begging you. I'm talking to Self-Help, who's in the towers, please come into the hall so we can start voting and voting immediately, not waiting for all the deputies to gather. Please come into the hall, take up your jobs, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Now we're going to do with you, as always, an exercise in signal voting in order to determine the number of national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. Colleagues, please take your seats, please! Ladies and gentlemen, we're taking our seats, please. I'm now going to announce the vote and ask you to support the vote. Colleagues, please alert, please, colleagues, we're voting for an emergency vote, please. We'll vote a few times to. It's a magical sound, a magical sound, when MPs start returning to their seats. [[13:07:09]] For 177 Please, colleagues, let's re-vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u142	Please vote yes, it's green. [[13:07:34]] For a hundred and Thank you so much! Well, society, we can't start our work, please don't leave the hall the ones that are, and invite the deputies into the hall. And there's still a big request for a green button to vote, a signal vote, it's not a position on whether or not another law, it's just a fixation of people being in the room. I'm asking you to step away from the rostrum, stop talking to the vice-speaker, take jobs for a signal vote. Deputies come in, Nasalik, we're approaching the workplace. Dear colleagues, with great respect, let's now make a signal vote to see if we can make a decision. So once again, I ask you to prepare for the signal vote and please vote, green button, please. [[13:08:41]] For 196 Society, you know, we're just going to have to publish lists of who's there, who's gone. Let's exchange thoughts while our deputies fit. Please, Oleg Berezuk 1 minute from the rostrum. Or two minutes if you think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u143	Deputies! You know, it's actually what's happening right now, a crime against the state. I don't understand, and the faction can't understand what's going on. Yesterday Parliament gathered, today Parliament is in a very vulgar way ignoring its work. This is the opposition of a system that goes beyond common sense. So, dear colleagues, call your friends who are sitting next to you and ask where they are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u144	We call friends, but especially those in the Supreme Council but outside the session hall. Once again, I ask the secretariat to inform everyone to enter the hall, to take up their jobs. Mr. Jemetz, I ask you to take your place, return to your trench. I'm asking you to focus again. We're going to have another vote. I very much ask the deputies, who in the aisles that are not near their jobs, please come to your work places for a signal vote. So we're re-voting. Please vote. [[13:10:48]] For 213 We are likely to make an amendment to the Rules to eliminate such a phenomenon as a break from 12:00 to 12:30, which is impossible. We spend more time on the MPs than we do on the break. I've said it and I'm stressing it again: it's at a time when a huge number of our guys on the front page don't know what a break is, they don't know what a day and a night is, working every day. I have spoken and stressed once again that the heads of factions on their factions should put the day’s issue of discipline into order. On our part, we will publish lists of missing MPs, make public and ask the regional press to demonstrate which of the deputies who have been elected does not attend the session, does not work, thus ignores not only their electorate, not just the community, but ignores the Ukrainian state and their duty to it. Dear colleagues! I see a few more deputies coming up, and I'm asking you to prepare again for the signal vote. Please prepare yourself, concentrate, vote for the House of Deputies. Please vote. [[13:12:27]] For 224
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-23-m0.u145	Please, again, concentrate, please. Colleagues, please vote. We still have a lot of different laws there, colleagues, and I'm asking that we get together and vote, there's something to do. [[13:13:03]] For 215 Dear colleagues! Let's vote for the return to the 2490 vote, maybe we'll have enough votes instead of just a signal. Let's support, colleagues, prepare, please support the return of 2490 in terms of. I'm sorry for coming back. Please be supportive. [[13:14:07]] For 209 There are no physical deputies in the hall. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to announce the recess, close the morning session and continue the meeting at 4:00 p.m. But, colleagues, we have an extremely large agenda, many important issues. I'm inviting you. Do the factions accept such an offer, or will we still vote? I see the people's deputies are coming along. Please take your seats, I think we can now vote on the two laws even later. Colleagues, let's do it again for the return of 2490. People's deputies are coming along, please. 2490. For the return of 2,490, are we ready to vote? Ready. Colleagues, prepare 2490 for return. Please support 2490 on your return. [[13:16:25]] For 212 No votes. Colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 4 p.m., there will be an evening session to review the State Service Act. Thank you.
