ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, lunchtime is over, please come into the hall, please take your jobs, get ready for work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. And the heads of factions please invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly recommend that you enter the hall, leave the towers, the buffet, and enter the hall to begin our work. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we are not yet enough for full-time work, please invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u2	Good evening, dear fellows! We can start our work by considering a very important issue of order of the day. Before that, I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, take their seats, get ready to register. Please, dear fellow members of the national parliament. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies in the hall, please. [[16:09:33]] 341 people's deputies in the hall, declaring the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to inform you that the Supreme Council has received the submission of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which states that in accordance with part three of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 8 of part one of article 49 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, article 218 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine supports the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for arrest and arrest, the detention of the court of appeal of the city of Kiev Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich and the submission of this application to the Supreme Council. In this regard, honourable colleagues, this submission is processed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and processed by the relevant committee. Accordingly, according to the Rules of Procedure, I propose the following procedure for dealing with such matters in accordance with part three of article 221 of the Rules. Five minutes to report to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Romanyuk Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. During which time he will answer the questions of members of the MPs and groups of national deputies, we will be available in five minutes. Next, if there is a judge present to discuss the matter, we will also give five minutes to explain. If there is no judge, we consider it without his explanation. Next, a report by the chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice by Ruslan Petrovic Knazević is also within 5 minutes. And according to the order of the discussion, let's take 15 minutes for the factions and groups and the national MPs. Is there no objection? Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate. I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich Romanyuk. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please come to the hall. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Please turn on the microphone in the stand for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u4	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Court of Ukraine received a submission addressed by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Victor Shokin, addressing the issue of granting the Supreme Council's consent to arrest and arrest the judge, the head of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich. The submissions indicate that Judge Chernushenko has been suspected of having received text messages from persons whose names were not mentioned in the data, about the fall of last year until June of this year, and that he has repeatedly received messages from individuals whose names were not mentioned in the data, who have expressed wishes for certain court cases in the interests of certain persons. In pursuit of the objective of obtaining material benefits for this particular consideration: in the interests of certain persons, these cases, in accordance with the materials of the trial, the head of the Court of Appeal, Chernushenko, was instructing the officers of the Court of Appeal, who, in carrying out his orders, intervened in the work of the automated court documentation system and, in violation of the principle of the case-sharing coincidence, ensured that the cases were directed to the exact case-law of Judge Chernushenko. Judge Chernushenko has been informed of the suspicion of committing crimes that are classified under part two of article 375 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which is the judgement of the judge of a predeterminedly unjust decision made on behalf of or in other personal interests, as well as under article 376 with the badge of part two of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, is a deliberate intervention in the work of an automated court documentation system, done under the previous conspiracy by a group of persons. As head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I supported this submission. The purpose of detention and arrest, as stated in the report, is to prevent that, while remaining at large, Judge Chernushenko, as the head of the Court of Appeal, may affect the staff of the apparatus who, by his direction, intervened in the work of the automated system and ensure that the cases were distributed to him and the judges who were with him in the judicial college, as well as the ability to influence other persons whose interests were approved by the courts, in order to induce them to provide appropriate evidence to help him evade responsibility for what he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Five minutes, colleagues, sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Koseljeva, Radical Party. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Your Honor, Mr. Supreme Court, we've been very familiar with the application, and I have a question for you about the following content. The suspect, Judge Chernushenko, reported that he had received instructions from the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, namely from Deputy Chief of Administration, Mr. Alexia Filatov, with the teams, how to deal with certain cases. In particular, the order to take away the business and property of the company. One of the private companies of Naftogazravljanje. I have a question for you as for the Supreme Court. Is it a criminal offence to give illegal instructions? Is illegal interference by representatives of the Presidential Administration being investigated? Please provide specific information on these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u7	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. As head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I am acting only in submission. The application has been made in connection with the criminal conduct initiated following the intervention of an automated system. The facts that you're talking about, I think it would be better if we address the trial manager and the representative of the Attorney General, who directly have access to the criminal files and ensure that the investigation is carried out. But it seems to me that all cases involving someone's misconduct in this criminal conduct should find their legal evaluation in this criminal conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u8	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, non-fractional. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u10	Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u11	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Your Honor, the head of the Supreme Court! Indeed, the situation is clear. Clearly, we need to bring responsibility to this sad judge who, as we've all seen this video, has just been disgraced. But I only have one question. Do we all think that in the same Court of Appeal in Kiev and not to mention all the other courts, it's just one bribe and the only one who has to take responsibility? Besides, it's the head of the court. Obviously, there is a need to deal with the situation as a whole, to clean up these clots. And finally, to bring responsibility to all those people who are essentially embarrassing the name of the judge who makes decisions for money, via text messages and things like that. I mean, I'd really like this trial to go on, and it's not a single case, and it's a systematic cleansing of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u12	Dear National Deputies! As I said before, criminal conduct has been initiated, namely, the fact that an automated system is involved. The report of the suspect was handed to only the head of the court, Czernoshenko Anton Vasilovich, literally one and a half days after the search was completed at the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Procedural actions are still under way, and follow-up activities are under way. And if the authorities of the pretrial investigation are to establish improper actions in the actions of others, whether the employees of the apparatus or the judges, they should certainly be given the appropriate legal qualifications.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u13	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies of Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u14	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. I'd like to ask y.o. Attorney General Vladimir Guzir. Vladimir Pavlovich, a few hours ago, when you were sitting with us at a meeting of the Legal and Justice Committee, I asked you whether the open conduct was in line with this resonance case regarding the deputy head of the Presidential Administration, Alexia Filatov, who, according to Chernushenko, was trying to give instructions and twist his hands. Other colleagues asked you if you had opened up the conduct of judges who in one college, along with Judge Chernushenko, had made these illegal lobbying decisions? You said you didn't know. Have you found out, and will you tell us, or will you tell us, what is going on in all these villains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u15	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u16	Please pass the word to Mr. Soboljev Jehor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u17	Yegor Sobolev. To the question, please. To the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u18	I have a question for the Supreme Court itself. During his last meeting, he reported that he had successfully passed the illustrative test. The main question of the Law on the Cleanse of Power is how can you explain the property of your family? In the declaration you've been following, you have an official income of over 2 million dollars. Most of this is property sales. After you sold that property that brought you over a million dollars, you still have three apartments, two garages, and two cars. I have a simple question: Where?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are now considering the submission by the Attorney-General of the Office, supported by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, of the removal of the inviolability of a judge, a particular judge. So please, I'd like you to take this question down, and give an official answer, but not now, because we're considering another question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u20	Egor Viktorovich, I am ready to answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u21	Balogah, national deputy of Balog. Victor Ivanovich, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u22	No, I have no questions for the Supreme Court. Thank you. It just happened to be on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u23	Victor Chumak, Peter Dusty Block, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u24	Dear Jaroslav Romanovich, I have one question. Please tell me, according to those texts that were printed in the press, we have seen very many ways of influencing the decision-making of Judge Chernishenko. Please tell me, how do you plan to get out of this situation? You realize that these are all unjust decisions. You realize that all of these decisions need to be reversed or reviewed. How does the Supreme Court plan to get out of such a scandalous situation when a mass of unjust decisions have been made?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u25	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. In accordance with the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act, I represent the entire judicial system as Head of the Supreme Court, but I am not the head and I have neither the organizational nor the procedural capacity to intervene in the work of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. With regard to these distressing cases of isolated interference with an automated system. At the next meeting scheduled for July 16, this year, the Council of Judges of Ukraine intends to take a number of steps to organize and verify the operation of the automated system, both the centralized system that operates under the auspices of the State Judicial Administration and those of the individual courts where their automated systems are not closed to the administration of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u27	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Please take your seat in the guest room. Dear colleagues, do we have a judge present who we are considering? He was invited. It doesn't, does it? None. We can consider without explanation. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovic Knazević, to report. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, the committee is meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! Excuse me, Ruslan Petrovich. There is a procedure for dealing with this issue, and I follow this procedure strictly. Please, there are your questions -- there will be an answer, but in the end. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u30	Thank you. The committee at its meeting today reviewed the relevant documents, which were drawn up by a submission, supported by the Head of the Supreme Court, to which the Attorney-General of Ukraine referred, in accordance with the procedure established, to the appropriate approval of detention and arrest, the taking of the appeal court of the city of Kyiv Chernushenko Anton Vasilovic. As soon as the committee received the relevant documents in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, we immediately convened meetings and today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Head of the Supreme Court personally presented the relevant submission and the acting Attorney General of Ukraine gave an answer to questions on the circumstances of the cases that aroused interest and lively discussion on the committee. As a result of the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to invite Parliament to consider the relevant submission, because, I would like to remind you that under 220 articles of the Ukrainian Act, the "On the Rules of the Supreme Council" committee is somewhat narrowed down in its powers and it can only be evaluated in procedural terms. It is a matter of whether an appropriate subject has been addressed to the Head of the Supreme Court or, in the proper manner provided for by law, the Head of the Supreme Court supports the appropriate submission, whether the submission has been made in due course to the Supreme Council. And in accordance with article 220 of the Rules, I must tell you that today, officially Anton Vasilovich Chernushenko, by telephonegram, as the Committee normally does, was informed that the issue of the review of the submission of consent to arrest and detention (preservation under guard) was the subject of review and committee, and now he has been duly informed from the session room. The fact that he did not wish to be present personally on the committee where the matter was addressed, nor now, during the consideration of this in the session room, obviously in accordance with the Law on the Rules, could not be an obstacle for either the committee or the sessional room to be properly determined how it should act now in accordance with the Law on the Rules. For my part, I can read the resolution part of our conclusion on the following: "After having considered the relevant materials, and having personally heard the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Court and the discharge of the duties of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice unanimously decided to recognize that it meets the requirements of article 220 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure and that the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and made by the Supreme Court, may be supported, with the consent to the detention and arrest of the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Chernushenko Anton Vasilovic." Thank you. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u31	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, please take 15 minutes to discuss the matter. I'd like you to sign up for factions and groups for two minutes first, if you don't mind. Please record factions and groups for 2 minutes. The rest of the time will be the record of the national MPs. Please. People's deputy to Doubenkov, Opposition Block, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Dmitri Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u33	Dmitri Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what is happening now is nothing but pressure on the court. The judicial system is not just being illustrated, it is being terrorized. What we are now offered is the guilt of texting and interfering with the court's record-keeping system. It's about a text message. There is no evidence that decisions have been made on these texts. The judge himself points out that he was under pressure from the Presidential Administration. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine was unable to answer a question from a colleague, whether the judge had been subjected to pressure from the Office of the President. Furthermore, we do not know whether the text is from the representative of the President's Administration, who is also putting pressure on the judge directly. In addition, the submission of the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine indicated that the interference with the documentation system had been carried out by an unidentified person. If the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine has not identified a person who has interfered with the court's documentation system, how can it be determined that the intervention was carried out at the direction of Judge Chernushenko. We are not cleaning up the judiciary, but we are simply undermining trust in it. The world's experience on judicial ethics is based on the fact that the baseless prosecution of a judge undermines faith in the entire justice system. If the judge is charged, the charges must be substantiated. In sum, all the facts show only that the pressure goes directly to the court. Our political faction is clear for cleansing, irrespective of the name and the position of the judiciary. But the facts must be clearly substantiated and confirmed. This submission does not confirm the facts, which is why we will not vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u35	Oleg Barn, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u36	I give the floor to Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u37	Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, I think Judge Chernushenko is a little late for the prowl. And if we see his biography, he's been in charge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal since 2003. He served the Kuchma regime, followed instructions at Yushchenk and at Yanukovich. And the fact that he is now called to account is evidence of whether he is using the services of selling judges. I can say what happened in Kiev's Court of Appeal, well, you know, frankly, it's hard to describe in censor words, because the decisions were often completely different to the narrative, the resolution and the narrative contradicted each other. These were orders. And what started with the Kyiv Court of Appeal, where corruption flourished very well, is an important step, the most important step. I think Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko felt what an appeal court was, and Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko felt that it was the Kyiv Court of Appeal and a bunch of Ukrainian patriots and activists. So all I want to do is ask the Attorney General's Office: don't stop, let's start with other courts, where there's really an illegal lock instead of fair justice. Consider the Supreme Court of Agriculture, where terrible decisions are made. And I'm very sure that if you want, you can start fighting corruption in the courts. And this is a question of survival today for Ukraine. Thank you. And the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block will support the submission to bring the selling judge of Chernushenko to justice and to arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u40	Self-help in full stock will vote in favour of this judge's arrest. But I have a big request to the Speaker of Parliament, to the Attorney General's Office, to stop pretending that this is a single case with a single judge. Do you not understand why the head of the Supreme Court cannot explain many apartments and millions, as is the case with the arrest of a particular judge of the Court of Appeal? How many months is it going to take after Euramydan when we received an answer from the Henprocuratorate, and why in the Court of Appeal, one after the other, we've been confirming the death sentences for the elderly beaten people who have been sitting for months in the cold Lukyanian S.I.O. and who were going to get 10-15 years. How long does it take to have these answers? Father and Emilianov, don't you know these families? As long as these people are in justice, and more specifically in a huge machine of injustice, which is built to collect billions of bribes and continue to collect them, we don't have any Attorney General's Office. I'll tell you more, we don't have a Parliament because we're sitting here pretending there's a single judge who's committed a separate crime. We need extraordinary steps. We are now discussing changes to the Constitution. The next task is to replace all courts because of constitutional changes. We don't have them. We have a huge machine of corruption that we should start dismantling. If it's not rhetorical questions that are not before today's CEOs of the Henprosecutors, but simple, formal ones, then the first, really interference with the computer activity of an unspecified person is all your investigators have found on this judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u41	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that we are now considering the issue of the filing and granting of a detention permit and the arrest of a particular judge of a particular court. That's what I mean by procedure. So I'd like to take this into account. Please, People's Republic of Ephraim Irina, People's Front. Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u42	Ephraim. To Anton Heratchenka, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u43	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Of course, the history with the President of the Kiev Court of Appeal, Anton Chernushenko, is one of thousands of stories of a violation of the law by judges. When Mikhail Saakashvili began to establish order in Georgia, he had to plant some 300 judges for 3.5 million Georgian judges. You multiply this figure by 10-15, and you'll get the amount of criminal responsibility that judges have to have for Ukraine in order to clean up our judiciary. The People's Front will vote in favour of bringing Anton Chernushenko to justice. We believe that the Attorney-General's Office has provided sufficient grounds for criminal prosecution. And if the judges, many after Maidan, did not realize that they would no longer have a circular message, no one would protect them, they would now understand. With regard to Mr. Chernushenko's accusation of pressure on him by individual government officials. We had to declare this right away at the moment of pressure, record these conversations, contact the Attorney General, the President, the police, the BSS to protect your rights and show you're an honest judge. Not talk about it after you're brought to justice. I don't believe Mr. Chernushenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u44	Please, National Deputy Lozova, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u45	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. One of my colleagues asks me today how many honest judges do you know? I said one. He says, "You don't know her well." And there's nothing really funny about that. In Ukraine, in fact, all judges are corrupt bastards in manti, who turn justice into a perjury that serves the senior management of the state, serving certain corporate interests. Of course, there is no doubt that Judge Chernushenko is the same piece of cloth. A bunch of facts. The office's been cashed. 14 tons worth of fuel. Five keys to expensive cars. 800 SMS messages with tasks of the subject. But there are many questions. The great George Orwell in Animal Farm wrote that all pigs are equal, and some pigs are equal to others. Here we see that when we have thousands of corrupt judges, they are demonstrating that they are only trying to arrest someone who has become disagreeable, who does not want to listen to Filatov’s instructions. Notice, there is no guidance on what Chernushenko said. About the fact that the executive heads of President Philatew's administration instructed him to shut down a business. Chernushenko is a criminal. But isn't putting pressure on the business, putting pressure on the judges, it's a smaller crime for Filatov?Oh, my God! Is It Wrong to Make Wrong Decisions? What Chernushenko did in court. Next. It's a very revealing moment. The judge’s decision is not taken alone. He's taking in a college of judges. There is no way for any member of the college who, along with Chernushenko, made these decisions! And that's why the Radical Party will certainly vote in favour of bringing Chernushenko to justice. But we demand the release of all the judges, all of them! They're all no better than Chernushenko. All taxpayers, all tax collectors, all prosecutors, should be led by new people, young people who have undergone a revolution that has been fought. Not from Georgia, not from space, but from ordinary Ukrainian families of boys and girls who want to change this country, who will destroy corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, we have five minutes. After a minute, please sign the national deputies of Ukraine for the performance. Please sign in. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u47	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. After all, dear colleagues, we are really discussing a case that is obviously part of a huge corruption system. And obviously, it's corrupt all the way down, and we need to find ways now at any price, but basically to clean up, essentially again, the entire judicial system in Ukraine. But you know, let's ask ourselves one more question. The head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal receives a text telling him what to do and what decisions to make. I have a question, and who is this person who wrote these texts or the people who wrote these texts? Perhaps this is even more important. Because a person has essentially as much corruption as, excuse me, some Martian can write to the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal and he does everything. This is a question, so we must find the answer, who is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u48	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The disgraceful story of Judge Chernushenko shows the whole country that there is no judicial system in the country, that it is a propaganda and a judicial system only for money or that it executes political orders. But the story with Chernushenko similarly shows that in Ukraine, unlike the ongoing discussions, there is really no independent professional prosecutorial office. 'Cause the D.A. only violates criminal cases when they've been given "fass." And when Chernushenko claims that the deputy head of the President's Department of Philatew has instructed him to shut down the business of a private company, the prosecutor's office does not see the crime, does not violate the criminal case, does not challenge Filatov's interrogation and does not bring Filatov's release to the President. Here's all the talk about law enforcement reform. They only carry out the task force. So I'm going back to my coalition colleagues. Here's a draft order for the Attorney General's resignation, sign it, don't be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u50	Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u51	As we read these documents, we see once again the institutional inability of our Attorney General's Office to conduct perfectly all the following actions. Because Mr. Chernushenko is attracted to this submission and is suspected of committing criminal offences that involve interference with the computer system of distribution of cases. I think there are criminal cases, and there are definitions that can be used to attract Chernushenko both for getting bribes and for demanding bribes. Indeed, it is surprising why this has not been done. When we joke about it, we sit among the deputies and ask if we should put it in international search immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u52	Please, the last performance, Victoria Vojcitsky, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u53	As we continue the subject that our colleagues from other factions have actually raised, we want to point out that we don't have to, you know, walk with some kind of strict attitude to try to understand that here we have reason to say that there is a criminal conspiracy, a plot to get certain decisions from a particular judge. And today, even taking down the question about this particular person who was giving instructions, as if through texting, I have a question to the Attorney General's Office, what she's doing and planning to do in order to expose this criminal plot and bring to justice those people who caused the situation that we're facing today in this particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We are considering an important question. I realize that there are many broader issues, and I am convinced that they too need to be considered. But now we have to endure the procedure for dealing with the issue of submission. I'll bet on the vote, my esteemed colleagues, the question. Accordingly, I am putting to the vote the issue of consent to the detention of the court of general jurisdiction of Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:46:56]] For 276 Decision taken. Peter Poshenko's Block – 115, National Front – 68, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 29, Radical Party Ljashka – 21, Father's Front – 15, Rebirth, Group – 1, Will of the People – Group 3, non-fractional – 24 national MPs. Accordingly, honourable colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the issue of consent to the arrest of the Court of Justice of the General Court of Chernushenko Anton Vasilovich. Please vote. [[16:47:44]] For 273 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 117, "National Front" – 65, Opoblok – 0, "self-help" – 29, Radical Party – 21, "Batakščina" – 15, group, "Rebirth" – 0, "Will of the People" – 2, and "non-fractional" – 24 national MPs. Dear colleagues, thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. I invite the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to address the detention and arrest of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the judge of the Court of Commerce of the Odessa Region of Medenceva. Please, Head of the Supreme Court. I'd like to think about it this way: five minutes -- on question-answer, five minutes, if there's a judge -- for his explanation. Next is a speech by the head of the profile committee, and then we'll talk about it for up to 10 minutes. Do you have a deal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u55	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has been brought before the Attorney-General of Ukraine Victor Shokin, who is initiating the issue of granting the Supreme Council of Ukraine permission to arrest and arrest the judge of the House Court of Odessa region of Medencev Pavel Anatoliyovich. According to the materials presented by Judge Medencs, a bribe totaling 570,000 dollars is suspected of being paid, which is linked to his approval of a certain procedural decision in the household case in favour of one of the owners. Since, after the situation has been established, the discovery of funds in the judge’s office, which had previously been handed over to the victim’s representative for further transfer as bribes to the judge and other evidence in the case. The judge is in hiding. Today, he is in search. The Attorney General violates the need for him to be detained and arrested in order to bring the judicial authorities to justice to carry out the necessary proceedings and to bring the judge to criminal responsibility. The judicial bodies of the judge are qualified under part five of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to receive bribes on a particularly large scale. As Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I supported this submission and brought it to your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u56	Thank you. Please sign in for five minutes. The Dove People's Deputy. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u57	Please give my word to my colleague, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u58	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u59	This is a fairly obvious situation, I don't think there's anything to comment on. I don't have as many questions as I think the comment is. The point is that the Law on the Status of Judges somewhat failed a better procedure in accordance with the Supreme Council’s arrest and detention of judges. The point is that in the event that this submission is initiated by an investigating judge, it is logical for him to be introduced and represented on the floor of Parliament by the Chief of the Supreme Court himself. When it comes to the procurator’s procurator’s procurator, it is obvious that the application should be made by the Attorney - General or by the acting attorney. Therefore, it is certainly worth considering that we should adapt the existing Law on the Rules of Procedure to the Law on the Status of Judges. That was true, and that would be in line with European tradition. I think the Head of the Supreme Court should agree with that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u60	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, for asking. I fully and fully agree with and support you in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u61	Please, Yuri Lewchenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u63	National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u64	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, in fact, in its bill of illustration, suggested a illustration, first of all, of the judges. Do you agree that a complete illustration of judges is needed today and that reforms are finally needed in the Ukrainian judicial system? But, you know, today's reform, the chief reformer is Mr. Filatov, who actually gives orders to judges to make such criminal decisions. And please tell me, does Mr. Filatov also give you instructions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u65	With regard to the procedure of illustration. This procedure applies to all the judges in charge, including 46 judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who were subject to a illustrative examination in accordance with the Law on the Cleanse of Power. From the very first day of December 1, 2014, they were subject to such a test. Although the law provides for two months, it has lasted six months. Very carefully, very narrowly. Each source of the judge’s income, the acquisition of property, and their control bodies were determined by six. It was checked today for all the judges, all the 46 who were subject to such tests, the check is complete. And the claim that the expenditure of the Supreme Court judges, their revenues obtained in a legitimate way, was not met by the vetting authorities. As for other judges of different jurisdictions, different levels, these checks are ongoing, according to the law, they have to take place between December 2014 and December 2015. And society will certainly be informed about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u66	Thank you. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u67	Thank you. Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland Party. Mr. Head of the Supreme Court, a few months ago, we agreed to bring to justice the responsibility and arrest of three odinous judges in the Pecher region: Kitsuka, Judge Vuka and Judge Tsarjevic. Today we have agreed to bring criminal responsibility and to arrest another judge. And I'm pretty sure that the judge we're looking at here is going to give us the consent of both being held accountable and being arrested. As Head of the Supreme Court, you supported this submission. This means that you agree with the argument in this account. Yet, after the material is brought to trial, we have no reaction to the actions of these judges, our colleagues. They're released without taking any precaution. Further cases are not referred to court. I have two questions. Why do you think this happened to Kravevich, Kitsuk, and Vuk? And won't that happen with the two judges we agreed to bring to justice and arrest?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u68	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for asking. As far as the previous three judges are concerned, they are Kitsuka, Tsarevich, and Vuka. If you recall, from the rostrum, from this rostrum of Parliament, I also informed you that the purpose of the arrest and arrest of these three judges was to bring them to justice to allow the investigator to carry out a series of necessary investigations with them. After the Supreme Council had agreed to their detention and the arrest of the judges had changed their attitude and if they had previously avoided any cooperation with the investigating authorities, they had since begun to appear on the subpoenas and to participate in the necessary investigations, then the grounds for their arrest to bring them to justice have failed. With regard to today’s cases, the judge of the Medencs is looking for and the purpose of his arrest and arrest is to arrest him in the same way as to arrest him and bring him to justice authorities in order to allow the authorities of the investigation to carry out all necessary proceedings along with him. As far as Judge Chernushenko is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u69	Please, National Deputy Volodymyr Parasuk, please, non-factional. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you, we've been handed out a pipe like this, and it says, "The Vysnost of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine." Guess who the head of this court is. This is the person who changed the Constitution and then shot our boys in Maidan. Think about it! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, we would like to ask the question of the acting Attorney General. So he can tell us that when we get here, when we get here, we'll take the touch off him? We were going to ask you when Boyka and I are going to take a picture of the int touch in this burglary block? That's what I want to ask you, not tell you how we're going to break up the judges now!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u71	Please. It was rather a performance than a question. Dear colleagues, the time for the talk is over. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, take your seats, please. Do we have a judge on whom the matter is being considered? None. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knazevitch, please. Please, Ruslan Petrovich. Then 10 minutes, as we agreed, for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u72	Thank you! Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! I understand that the questions were not really just because the situation was absolutely obvious, and there were no discussions on the subject. I'm just going to redefine the position that has just been proved by the Supreme Court, which is that it has supported the submission of the Attorney-General. And I'll remind you that this is about the judge of the Odessa District Master Court, who, obviously, here is where the situation is completely understood and does not need any further explanation, was caught on the spot when the bribe was received. What's more, according to the information that we have and that was in the committee's consideration of this issue, he admitted this fact, and at first he even started working actively with the investigation, but then one day he just ran away, and he's in search of it right now. Therefore, there is probably no point in persuading the deputies to be supportive or not to support the proposed submission. I will only say that the Committee unanimously and after considering the relevant materials, and having heard the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Court and the representatives of the Attorney-General, has decided to recognize that it meets the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council's Rules and that the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, may be supported, with the consent of the judge of the Court of Justice of Odessa Paul Anatoliyevich. At the same time, I would like, on my behalf and on behalf of the committee, to point out once again what I said in my question to the Chief Justice. The point is that the Head of the Supreme Court here formally only supports the submission received from the Attorney General. The Attorney General, for his part, supported the application made to him by the procurator in charge of a specific criminal case. And it would certainly be logical if we considered, at least on our part, a committee willing to initiate the procedure currently contained in the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, to change it somewhat, bringing it to the procedure that we have recently initiated with the changes that we have made to the entire judicial legislative unit, such as the Law on the Status of Judges, which is clearly defined by graduation, the category of cases on which the Head of the Supreme Court is to refer to the Supreme Council in that case, and the submissions should be addressed by the Attorney General. It makes sense to me that it's perfectly clear. In that case, if such a question is initiated by an investigating judge in a case, it is certainly logical for the head of the Supreme Court to initiate an appropriate submission before the Parliament. In that case, if this is a procedural director, the prosecutor refers to the Attorney General, asking him to address Parliament with such an application, such an application should be submitted to Parliament or to the Attorney General, or to perform his duties, which is truly ready and has the possibility of giving an explanation to the Ukrainian National Deputies in a specific category. Therefore, honourable colleagues, bearing in mind that such rules of the Rules are in force at this time, please, on behalf of the Committee, support the appropriate submission made by the Attorney-General and supported by the Head of the Supreme Court, and the Committee would continue to be very grateful if we could make appropriate changes at this session and adapt the Law on the Rules not only to the Law on the Status of Judges, but to that European practice that exists in virtually all countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 10 minutes for the presentation in order of discussion. Please log in from factions and groups, fellow believers, for 10 minutes. Please sign up and let's get to the vote. We still have a lot of questions about the agenda. Oksana Korchinska, please, Radical Party. Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u74	I'm handing over Igor Mosiychuk to the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u75	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian people, we are looking at a new application to another villain in a robe. They have developed such a number in this country that it is likely that Parliament will soon have to consider filing rather than enacting laws. It may be time to ask the question of the section that it is time to completely release all the judges, starting with the judges of the first instance, ending with the higher courts and the Supreme Court. Why, look at the estates, cars, and yachts that the judges live on, and see what the circle of messages between them is! The Supreme Administrative Court overturned the Supreme Council's decision regarding Judge Burbella, cancelled! So it's a circular message in action. The judges are protecting each other, and no arrests have been made for the permission we gave in this room. As colleague Vlasenko said, they all walk, who with the bracelet, who without, takes complete impunity. And if this continues, there will be another court in Ukraine, the Court of Lynch, and the lamps on the Chrystec will be adorned with figures in black mantles. One of the reasons for the dignity revolution was the distortion of judgment. We clearly support the Radical Party's submission to this judge and to any other judge who will be brought to this room. But, dear fellows, let's speak honestly and frankly, until we release them all, this will continue. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u76	Please, Julia Volodymyr. Excuse me, Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front. Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, UV.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u77	Friends, don't believe me, I fully support the previous speaker with the same words I went to the rostrum, he only preceded me for a few seconds. Friends, when they say that hand washes, it only indicates that both hands are dirty. The total circle message in the system of Ukrainian justice and justice, the prosecutor’s office covers villains who are not worthy to sit in their high offices, but are worthy of taking the place of those who have been convicted, and many are undeserving. I think that there are already thousands of young, clean and honest young men, boys, girls who have the highest, best legal education, and it's time for us to change the whole system. We will never build a normal state until we have these judges and these selling prosecutors. Look, there was a vote. Out of the Cloud, no one supported us or voted as we voted. This is the second part of this gang, they're covering up the prosecutor's office, and the prosecutor's office is covering them, like Kiwalov, who's standing there, and the first one 10 years ago, he had to sit down, the whole Ukraine demanded, the whole Orange Revolution, the whole Midan screaming, "Pedrachia under arrest!" And now he's walking in the middle of us, a man who has no right to be here with us, even with one air.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u78	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u79	Friends, it is easier to teach a young and honest person to work than to teach an old thief to steal. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u80	Thank you, colleagues, thank you. Dmitry Doves, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u81	I give the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u82	Alexei Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, it's clear that the Peter Dustenka Block supports this court's application, as we usually do with all the judges for whom we receive such referrals. But it's different. Today we need to support the President in his proposal to take down the judges' integrity as it is today. Because if our law enforcement agencies start, as they are supposed to do, arresting judges with dozens and hundreds, what are we going to do, national deputies, from morning to night, just consider filing without passing any laws? So we need to address the issue systematically, we need to take it down in the way that the judges are intact, and our law enforcement authorities need to give the order that we have. And we need to hear every day about the arrested judge, about the facts of the corruption they're going to be punished for, or we're not going to burn this corruption, this tumor from our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u84	Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, the Fatherland faction in its entirety will give all the votes "for" and for bringing this judge to justice, and for arrest. But again, like everyone else speaking to me, I have but. But I'm very worried about what's going to happen to these things after we've agreed to arrest them. The pump and I agreed to arrest Kitsuka, Vuka, Tsarevich. Where are all these people? Before me was a colleague who said that they were either wearing bracelets or without bracelets. They're all without bracelets, a respected colleague, they're without bracelets. They don't have any limitations, they walk, they work, some of them work, if I'm right, they send justice. What's that?? We can make as many arrests as we can, by the way, in a year and a half, this is only the fifth judge to be brought up by the Attorney General’s Office. We've been asked to help carry out judicial reform. Come on. Let's support the inadequacy of the law of justice. Well, let's support it. Let's create a High Council of Justice. So let's create. Where's the result? And there's no result. And by the way, I wanted to respond to a last colleague's line. There are no constitutional changes to the removal from the judges of inviolability, no! There's a change of order. And only when the judge is detained at the scene of the crime. And no removal of the integrity of the judges is proposed in the Constitution. That's why I want to come to us. Let's maybe stop this "companion" together in the fight against corrupt judges and put it on the system rails. I'd like to contact the Attorney General's office. I am convinced that if there is a desire, there is a reason, well, to make a submission, not for five, but for a thousand, five or two thousand judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u86	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u87	Judges. This is what the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people will expect. So we ask you to make these submissions, which will undoubtedly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, Lubomir Lvivitch Zubac, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u89	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u90	Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to this matter. It is obvious, of course, but it is also shameful. Because actually, look, this thing has been going on for over a year. The person was brought to justice in April of last year. Then, within 20 days, no arrests were filed with the Attorney General’s Office. The person is disappearing. Now she has been wanted for almost a year. And only a year from now do we get it! We have a very big question about the activities of the Attorney General's Office and the effectiveness of investigating such cases. We demand, first of all, that there be an international search, a submission, regarding this judge. So that we can properly use the Institute of Indictment and at least get a suspended sentence. It's going to be, at least, a result. And secondly, let's never again repeat the situation where the year is being investigated and we're only looking at the arrest of a judge today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to proceed to the vote. The discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is based on the question of consent in accordance with the court's detention of the General Court of Medentsev P.A. Arresting the judge of the General Court. Please, Your Honor, please vote in accordance with. Stop voting. Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Please, colleagues, in accordance with the motion, I am putting to the vote the issue of consenting to the detention of the General Court of Justice of Medentsev P.A. Please vote. [[17:13:54]] For 260 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 107, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 27, Radical Party – 20, Father's Party – 16, Restoration Party, group 0, Will of the People – 4 and non-fractional – 21. In accordance with the motion, I would like to put to the vote the question of whether to grant consent to arrest the General Court of Justice of Medencev P.A., please vote. [[17:14:33]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Prashenka Block" – 110, "The People's Front" – 68, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 27, "The Radical Party" – 20, "The Father's Party" – 17, "the Rebirth Party – 0, "The Will of the People" – 1, "the Non-Factional" – 22. Let's move on, dear fellows. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Deputies, there's been a statement from two factions, the Self-Help faction and the Radical Party, declaring the break. But there is a suggestion to replace the break with a three-minute speech by Oleg Lacha. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, self-help colleagues, who are as actively defending the interests of Ukrainian citizens as other parties are represented in the coalition. We would like to pay attention to the following question. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I address you again. There are hundreds of people near the Supreme Council, and you've been standing there all day, there's no broadcasts of the plenary sitting in the square. We're a democratic country. The people have a right to know what is being discussed here. We urge Parliament to consider laws that regulate the functioning and operation of cashiers. I want to remind you who doesn't know, since July 1st, the rule that every small and medium-sized entrepreneur has to install cashiers. If these devices are not available, that means tens of thousands of fines, responsibility, criminal responsibility. And most importantly, it's the cessation of hundreds of thousands of jobs. Because small and medium business is just going to be covered in copper pelvis. Since people don't have five, seven thousand dollars is going to pay for the cashier, then it's going to take a month to pay for the maintenance of these cashiers, and then the check went wrong, taxed. There are two bills that regulate this issue. First Bill 1718 by Oksana Prodan, Oleg Laska, Oleg Kuprienka. The second bill, 1088, under the authority of the deputies of almost all factions, where we propose to settle the issues and functions of the cashiers, to cancel the fines for violating the legislation on the operation of these apparatus, etc. So I go to my coalition colleagues, and the bill is ready. There is a decision of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. These bills are ready for consideration in the Parliamentary Hall. I now ask the Head of the Supreme Council to bring to Parliament an immediate consideration of Bills 1718, 1088. I would like to emphasize that they are ready to be considered. I emphasize, from tomorrow, from the first number of hundreds of thousands of people will be at risk of being persecuted by taxpayers. They just stop working, they just stop feeding their families. For one reason, if you can’t help people, don’t stop them from earning money to feed your family so that you can pay small taxes on the budget. Today, the economic situation in Ukraine is very difficult. Every job, every person who earns a penny, has to wear it and thank God that it works, not that poor little and middle-sized entrepreneur. Let's vote and sound on the street!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I must make this very clear. This morning, at the Conciliation Board meeting, the issue arose, and I gave the task of assigning a committee of profile to work with the National Deputies to deal with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u95	To process and bring it in accordance with the procedure for the consideration of Parliament. First. Second position. I went to the coalition and the coalition coordinator to form it. He's not here today, right now. Therefore, please do more than just talk. As soon as there are 226 deputies, I'll put it in the agenda, because it wasn't foreseen for today. And another, dear friends of mine, most distinguished colleagues! I would like to inform you that on Friday the Parliamentary apparatus sent out to all groups and factions, to the secretariats of the day’s agenda that the Parliament’s committees have submitted, and on this basis a day’s order has been established. Regrettably, there were no other decisions. But I'm once again giving the commission to the committee that worked: work and make agreed proposals, please do so. Let us now consider the following issues of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u96	They are ready to be considered!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u97	2013, draft Law on Custody, prepared by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rosenblat Borislav Solomonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u98	We demand consideration.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u99	Please, Your Honor, draft Law 2013. I only have one offer, you know. Please, Oleg Valeriovich, you're the coalition coordinator, pick up the coalition quickly, quickly, give me the bill, and I'll put it to the vote. There's nothing to vote on. Dear colleagues, please once again ask the coalition coordinator to collect the coalition and make an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Give me the law, where is he? Give me the law. Give me the law! Give me the law. Come on! Where is he? Give me the law! So he's just given an assignment. Oleg Valeriyovich, take on the coalition coordinator, please. Colleagues, are you kidding me or what? Where is he? Where's the law? What are you talking about? Take your seats. I'm asking the Southern Committee, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, to hold an urgent 10-minute meeting with the coalition factions. Bring me the law from the committee, not from the apparatus, and then I'll put it to the vote. Please take care of the matter. All right, let's do it again. Colleagues, I'm handing over the lead to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, factions of the coalition for one representative, please come to my office, and we will now hold an operational meeting. Thank you. Keep driving.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, honourable blockers! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for coalition representatives to hold a coalition council. What factions? Please come on in, who's blocking. I'm asking that while the coalition board is on its way, we release the rostrum so that we can do the work while the coalition board is in session. Dear colleagues blocking and all other colleagues! There is now a coalition council on which decisions will be made. I'm very much asking that while the coalition board is on its way, and it can last for 10 minutes, we can look at the issue of order of the day. Please. Dear colleagues! Once again, as the council of the coalition is going to make a decision, I ask that we be able to consider the bill of procedure. Please, Andrew Lozova. From the blockers there are legitimate representatives, please go to negotiations to the Presidium. From the blocking representatives, please approach. Who Can Make Decisions? Who can make decisions from those who block the rostrum? Colleagues! Andrew Lozova, Alexander Kugel!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u101	Please take your seats. A working meeting was just concluded on a question that was raised before the announcement of the break. Please take your seats, and now the coalition coordinator will report on the issues that have been discussed, what decisions have been agreed upon, and we will move on. Please, rostrum, 3 minutes Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u102	Please, let me tell you. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, just under the chairmanship of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, there was a meeting of the leaders of the factions of the coalition, which discussed the issues of Bills 1718 and 1088, which regulate the functioning of the cashiers. The law in question takes effect from tomorrow. All the leaders of the 5 factions of the coalition agreed that now at 6.30 p.m., a meeting of the Supreme Council's Tax Committee, which agrees with the textual part of the law they agreed on, I stress, all five leaders of the coalition's factions supported the proposal to vote down a law that completely cancels the implementation of cashiers for the second group of entrepreneurs -- all of whom have income of one and a half million dollars, are completely canceling cash machines. As for the third group of entrepreneurs. We agreed that we were transferring the implementation of cashiers, and that is 10,000 people, and we're transferring the deadline for this law to take effect by January 1st, and by January 1st, we're resolving all the issues that are in order for small and medium-sized businesses not to hide the oligarchs who are doing their business. Therefore, at 6:30 p.m., a tax committee with the participation of the Minister of Finance, with the participation of the Prime Minister, whom we invite to this meeting, we write out the text of the law. Tomorrow at 10:30 a.m., we vote on this law. As for tomorrow, the bill on the electronic administration of VAT becomes effective. It was also agreed that the bill was numbered. Nina Petrovna, what's the law? 2690. We vote him on the committee. We're working on a committee. And tomorrow we will be the first to submit these two bills to the Supreme Council Hall. I confirm that five factions of the coalition have undertaken to cancel the implementation of cashiers for entrepreneurs in the second group. These were the decisions that were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. In fact, there was just a meeting that Oleg Valeriyovich informed about. A number of questions were considered at the meeting. I can tell you that even within the coalition, the experts inside the coalition have different thoughts about resolving this issue and the mechanisms. So it's also decided that, in conjunction with the government, the experts of the various factions of the coalition, I think we can invite other groups to work out a quality draft law. So that he wouldn’t just be accepted, and then he would be fined by everyone else. In order for him to be accepted and to meet the expectations that entrepreneurs have today. So, dear colleagues, tomorrow we will consider this bill, including a draft law that deals with VAT issues. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you, Your Honor. We'll resume our meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
